ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195774	Honored MPs and MPs, so I am the foundation of the article. 247. I suggest we conduct a united debate on: the final draft law supplementing the General Tax Code, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 895. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Accounting Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 896. and Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 887. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, so I would now ask the applicant's representative to give an additional explanation. The first one will be spoke by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Honored Andrej Plenkovic. I assume that both Finance Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Zdravko Maric will speak afterwards. Here you go, Prime Minister. I'm just asking you now to hold your hand until you're registered by a colleague who's interested in the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195775	Good afternoon, Honorable President HS, Honorable MPs and MPs. I am pleased to have the opportunity to present today in the framework of this April package of measures that we propose in the context of tackling the social economic and social consequences of the coronary virus pandemic that the Republic of Croatia is facing. We, as you know, presented the first package in March with 63 measures, were immediately a spot-on government response to how to facilitate the situation for our economy, for workers, for our entire system of functioning under new circumstances. This package we talked about yesterday at the government, which we presented to the public on Wednesday, as you can see, comes not only in the context of the battle against the coronaryvirus but also in the context of a major earthquake that hit Zagreb and the surrounding area and part of Krapina-Zagorje County of 5.5 per Richter. I would once again, on behalf of the Government, like to express my condolences to the family of the young girl Anamaria, who, unfortunately, lost her life in that earthquake. I want to thank all those who have made every effort in recent weeks to protect the health of Croatian citizens, Croatian doctors, nurses, general medical staff, thank the police, thank the inspectors, customs officers, all those who work these days in shops, to ensure the normal functioning of our lives. I would also like to thank everyone who has helped bring about lightning from the earthquakes in Zagreb, civil protection, city services, police and HV. This March, which is behind us March 2020, for many things will be a month that we will remember for a very, very long time. He basically changed the course of both our activities and our plans, our achievements and marked the beginning of a new normal, new normal that we would face for a time. And that is why we are in a period that requires the unity of the Croatian people, all of our fellow citizens, demands responsibility, self-discipline of individuals, demands the patience of all of the youngest who unfortunately cannot go to school to many who currently cannot do their job to our oldest who, in this epidemic of the crown of the virus, we need to keep and take special care of them. We're like many other countries facing a dilemma. A dilemma in which we have a choice between saving lives and preserving the health of Croatian people and temporarily giving up the way of life so far. As Government, we chose life, we chose the health security of Croatian citizens. And that is why we have taken the measures that when we view comparatively with other countries in Europe, when we look at the dynamics of the spread of infection and the increase of the number of patients in many countries in the world, so far are quite successful in limiting the rate of spread of infection, and also at a rate of mortality.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195776	So like this, we have reached an agreement that only those who are on behalf of the club here two can replicate. MOST has already reported 3, now see that a colleague of Sladolev came with the same intention, also comes fellow Maras. So we're not matchmakers, so what is it? So, what's the deal now? We make a deal and you start, you start, you start cheating on this guy like we're on the street playing this matchmaking game. Come on, please, two representatives from every club can replicate and don't do that. I asked correctly, we decided we'd argue longer in clubs, and now we're pretending to be ignorant, and we're going into the assembly like we didn't agree on anything. So, every club, please pick two who will participate in the debate. Excuse me, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195777	Thank you very much. So when we compare the dynamics of the spread of infection in the Republic and in other countries and Europe and the world, we can say that we have achieved good results with the measures we have taken so far. I am saying this because after a series of consultations with doctors, with experts, with scientists, I must repeat to you and the Croatian public that the battle against coronaryvirus at this stage when we do not yet have a reliable cure, or vaccines, or we have acquired immunity, will primarily lead to the principles of medicine of some earlier centuries, which separates those who are sick from those who are healthy. And that's why our social contact reduction strategy is getting these results. We see an example of a country that has chosen a slightly different strategy in recent weeks, which is Sweden to have a sudden rise in both the infected and the dead. So what we're doing right now is right and justifiable. And we're going to be held as government by the recommendations of experts, especially the epidemiologists, because that's their job under these circumstances. The package of measures we adopted yesterday at the government comes after this package of March has already come into life. Here is Minister Maric, and he will say in more detail that the tax administration has received as many as 64939 requests by 14 yesterday, of which 64% have already been resolved. The Ministry of Labour, on the other hand, to this extent that we have provided, therefore, compensation to employers for workers at 3.250,00 kn per worker as support for the preservation of jobs until yesterday received 70 000 requests for 420 000 workers. And yesterday 400 million kunas were already paid for about 123,000 workers and 40,000 employers. Measures by the Ministry of Regional Development, Ministry of Economy, Tourism, Agriculture, Sea, Transport, Culture are also being implemented. But as we said, in front of HS 20 days ago, we said that we would calibrate our measures depending on the development of the situation. And we have therefore decided, by following the uncertainty we share with other countries of Europe and the world, to come out with another package, to strengthen the March measures. Raise the fee from 3.250,00 kn to 4,000.00 kn, take over the burden of the state of giving i.e. contribute to this particular case. We made a decision that, or those who will fall in income between 20 and 50% compared to last year, we made it possible to postpone them, and that is to say, unscathed and costless, and those whose income falls from 50 to 100%, there are those who can't work at all right now, to free them from taxes entirely, both on profit and income. All those companies, so up to 93% of the number of companies that have revenue of 7.5 million kuna, are covered by this measure, the large ones will be released proportionally if they have a fall of income between 50 and 100%. We also decided that paying value added tax can be delayed until the issued bills are charged, but that does not mean that we are exempt from paying the VAT obligation. The deadline for the submission of the annual financial reports has been moved to 30 June and the obligation to pay FINA's fee is lifted. As far as state expenditure is concerned, we've been working on this for a few weeks now, all the ministries, all the users of the state budget, working on spending cuts, savings, we're going to start talking to social partners about the new situation we're in. Once again, especially for our pensioners, however this situation develops, pensions will not be touched, not for March, not for April, not for May, not for June. For pensions, we'll always find the means to make sure there's no dilemmas. You will see in this debate today and on Monday what we intend to do for Croatian agriculture, for Croatian peasants, for the purchase of surpluses in small milkers, we do not want to see this fall, but the state will stop there and buy everything that is surplus. We also go with support for plant production, the livestock sector, the Ministry of Economy is going with the programme of micro small loans for rural development, the new COVID-19 loan for crafts, the amount of loans of 750,000.00 kn with an interest rate of 0.25 beginning of 12 months, the payment deadline of 5.g. We're going to change some of the laws for the sake of the operational responsibility of the M.O.P. We're going with a package of laws in tourism. More Minister Capelli will talk about it. We have a very good intention here to make a step towards the sector that currently suffers the most. It is important that we know that we will provide a liquidity of 600 million kuna for tourism. The measures we are taking were taken even before yesterday the European Commission made almost the same effort for the whole EU. Their package applies precisely to ensuring jobs, employment, support for the economy, flexibility in the use of European funds, reallocation, even for the first time without a precedent in order to abolish the component of national funding. Everything we do to send a message of solidarity, solidarity to everyone in Croatian society under these extraordinary circumstances. You saw that one of the credit rating agencies left an RH investment credit rating yesterday, but the outlook from the positive turned it into stable. So this is the first message of those who follow the consequences of this crisis on the Republic of Croatia. I must say for many who have often spoken about whether or not we should go to Europe to help us to join Europe today. It would certainly help us, as the members of the European Union have helped, in 19 of them. However, as we are on our way to the European Course Mechanism 2, we are conducting intensive dialogue with both the European Central Bank and we will seek to reach specific arrangements concerning the support of the Republic of Croatia and its financial stability. With regard to the financing of these measures and new circumstances, we are going in coordination with the CNB, with commercial banks, primarily here on the domestic market, we are also thinking about international financial markets, we are also talking to international financial institutions. We're doing everything we can to get through this crisis. And we, as I said at the outset, will stand behind Croatian workers with this package of measures and stand behind the Croatian economy as we have been responsiblely doing so in our mandate and in this respect we expect your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195778	I thank the Prime Minister and call on the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, the respected Zdravko Maric to take the same word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195779	Thank you, well-respected President HS, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is the introduction of what the Prime Minister has exhibited, I will try only, perhaps a little bit just to detail through the concreteisation of these 3 legislative proposals, but, which are the subject of the debate today, but I think you are aware yourself that yesterday and within the whole package we have brought several conclusions of the Government and some other acts that are on the trail of this package, and in what way to do additional measures, additional efforts, to facilitate all economic operators who are already very much at this moment affected by the corona crisis, but at the same time do what we have said in presenting the first package of measures, that effort to the key specifics within a short time period, and this is the maintenance and preservation of jobs and maintenance and maintenance of the functioning of the entire system of the Republic of Croatia and the state, when I say countries do not mean the apparatus of state, but as well as such and all its institutions, we are well aware of the roles, importance and importance of certain services, from the police and customs, etc. As far as this first measure is concerned, I will repeat once again what is said, therefore the amount of support for the payment of salaries is increasing. I repeat once again, payment support, all entrepreneurs, all employers who can, I think, from this pay phone and all of us together in any way that we publicly act, need to send a message in a way that we certainly appeal to pay as much as they can, or full pay. What's important to say, everything that's been paid so far, you've heard the data, you've heard the figures, for 3 months of those 3.250,00 kn, the tax administration will take a systematic route, and in the meantime, if you have to do the hand-in-hand, make adjustments to make that payment for a good part of the entrepreneurs already made, be free of payment, public contributions in view of the level of support, it does not enter the income tax scissors, but above all I mean contributions. The rise to £4,000 starts from April and will be valid for April and May and the same principle of exemption from public giving will also apply to these payments during April and May. HZZ and the Tax Administration will fully agree their records, data transmission, so what is most important for entrepreneurs, for employees, for citizens in as little administration as possible and all the burden of implementing these measures, of course we take on ourselves. I think you're also clear and recognizable that this 4,000,00 kn is the height of the basic, basic deduction that you voted on our proposal and came into force from 1.1 this year. The second measure concerns public administrations again, linked but also unrelated to this first measure, and it relates to the release completely or partially, and the postponement of payment of public fees to entrepreneurs depending on how much and how they are affected by the coronary crisis. So, as we said, in the first round, the 20% threshold for the qualification of entrepreneurs or taxpayers for deferral measures and unambiguous payment is now increasing to 50% in terms where it is possible to qualify for full or partial release. All those taxpayers whose annual income or turnover is up to 7.5 million kuna will be fully exempt from paying direct taxes, income, profits and contributions. Of course, I repeat again on the condition that their decline in income over the next 3 months, or April, May and June, compared to the same period last year, is over 50%. For those who have an annual turnover of over 7.5 million, this release will be proportionally achieved by a downturn of over 50%, the remaining part is also subject to a deferral and unambiguous payment. Which in translation when we actually sum up means that in the coming months we can expect a very small inflow of any direct taxes, income, contributions and profits in the state register. Closely related to this measure is, of course, our proposal measures, and it is also an integral part of the amendments to the General Tax Law which would then, of course, be concrete and translated into a rule signed by the Minister of Finance, but at the same time of course, I will explain and present to you all our thoughts so far and not be as in the first case any unknowns. Therefore, this is a matter of value added tax, as the main and key not only of the original income of the state budget but also of this main representative, so-called. indirect or indirect defeats. You know very well that the Republic of Croatia has taken advantage of the possibility that certain provisions of the directive give for a certain category of entrepreneurs, which are again at the same threshold as those up to 7.5 million kuna in the last round of tax reform, to allow them also to have the right to pay value added tax at the price of the invoice, or as some say in the invoice. Statistics, just to tell you in short lines so far says that out of 153.217 value added tax taxpayers, 60,014 have decided, or they go and charge VAT on the paid realisation, so on the basis of all the bills charged and all the bills paid. The remaining number of 93,203 accounts for VAT on invoices issued, which means that in that month the obligation is calculated on the basis of all invoices issued and all receipts received, regardless of whether they have charged or not. A large number of taxpayers obviously had the option, but it was not as such chosen. In the first round of changes, or in the first round of measures for the economy, we have opened the door for this number of remaining up to 7.5 million kunas of annual traffic. We will see, of course, the statistics she may not be so relevant at this point, but it is important that we spread such news and such information among entrepreneurs. And now, in this second circle, we open up the possibility for everyone, everyone. And here I must say once again, so this is something that is contrary to the basic principles of the value added tax system as well as certain directives that prescribe it that the Republic of Croatia and all EU member states have for more than two decades. But most importantly, the method of reckoning as such and all the part that will lead to this implementation will be carefully defined, of course, again and again, as with the first measures, to take a good part of this administration on ourselves, to relieve, to facilitate. However, what is important is the key point, what is not charged goes on about the postponement, what is charged cannot go on delaying the value added tax, regardless of the individual business entity is a obligor, it is not their income but the income of the state budget because ultimately the tax burden is borne by someone third. And now that we're saying that, let me just point out that the principle of this expansion is also being introduced for value added tax on imports. You also know that until now it has been worth the provision in general for machines and equipment only, we are now expanding the coverage of everything, just as we are expanding the coverage and thanks to all the people of good faith who in the past period, because of the COVID, which due to the earthquake in the city of Zagreb donated equipment and various other supplies, so that we will also include this coverage as such in these changes. But what that kind of sublime of this whole idea that we're talking about right now means when we sum up all these measures, direct taxes, taxes that are for the entrepreneur, the employer, the craftsman, so every taxpayer who carries out some sort of economic activity is a direct cost that goes to his burden. Income tax, tax on profit contributions as explained or fully released, in part we offer the possibility of delaying interest-free payments. Indirect taxes, which I repeat in the final and de facto bear someone's third income from the state budget, and ultimately we also have to apply that principle that, I repeat once again, what has been charged and paid into the state budget, what we are not offering is the possibility to go as such in the delay. And that's the concept we're talking about, and when we mention solidarity and community, I think it's more than evident here. With these measures, we all, together with our economic system, point to one high level of trust and a dose of trust. We are not looking for the same feedback, but at the same time in these circumstances without an equal level or at least the same level of trust in the opposite direction by the economy, it is hardly possible to build any further steps and exit from this whole crisis and that is what is most important. The government will, of course, continue to think, first of all, focus now at this point on implementing these measures because it is also important. Of course, after today's debate, I hope that after the vote, the real job is only then to move it forward. You have now heard the figures and effects of the measures so far, we are talking about over 65,000 entrepreneurs, over 400,000 people who are already users of the existing measures that we have presented, we hope that these measures will also contribute to such indicators and these results and ultimately do what we all want or want in these circumstances where practically health and some economic goals are in good proportion to cohesion. However, health and human lives are first and we in the economic part must give our pain, all who can in any way contribute to economic activity, to the creation of additional and new values, we must do so in the form of solidarity for all those whose work and business is disabled for various reasons, but above all in order to meet what is our primary priority of health and human lives. I repeat again, everything we can pass on and submit to ourselves we will do, again apostrophe to this administration, so the HZZ system and the IRS and the IRS, and according to the new FIN, which has created a web portal, a web interface that will be a unique place for application to measures that concern both the credit obligations of citizens and entrepreneurs and also the demand. So far, we have recorded over 1,400 requests for new loans from business entities for liquidity, which is what we were talking about in the first round and I am going to be apostrophe now. It is that effect that we are not able to fully assess fiscally in terms of the financial effect, because it is difficult to assume how much demand there will be for such loans. However, the idea is to make such loans available is that it is now extremely important to ensure the functioning of business entities, their liquidity in order not to really come to what we often use and exclusively use the notion of liquidity, but not to get to that even worse scenario, which is the liquidity crisis, not just liquidity. And that is what we intend to do through our part of the development banks, so HBOR and HAMAG, development and guarantee schemes, their participation in total loans, give incentives to both commercial banks to intensify this activity. So, crafts means payouts, payments to suppliers to some others, but means continuing this life of these business entities during the duration of what in all these acts that are standing before you, which are so-called. special circumstances. One of the laws is also the Accounting Act, very short. Therefore, the deadline for the application and submission of annual financial reports from 30.4. to 30.6. and all corresponding forms shall be moved, as well as the calculation of the annual profit tax. One of the 3 laws is also the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, which among other things regulates certain things on budgetary categories, among other things, you heard them just before and from the words of the Prime Minister, so for all these measures and for the functioning of the State we will need a much greater amount of funds than is original, I will call them in the peacetime circumstances before the Coronavirus when we were doing the budget and when we did the State Budget Implementation Act 2020, planned. In the next 3 months, in terms of state functioning, again I say, not the apparatus that some consider, but the overall functioning of a country that involves the payment of pensions, the payment of social benefits and the payment of various incentives, I don't know in agriculture if we can't ignore that part under these circumstances either. All that we can drive into economic activity we need to do, but also taking into account and say these measures, the implementation of these measures, the fact that a certain burden, at least this liquidated one, took over for you HZZOs or local self-governments. The needs of the state are between, according to our estimates, between 42 billion and 45 billion kuna. Moreover, some 20 billion kunas will also need to be provided for the achievement of some commitments from the previous periods. So we are talking about large amounts, and therefore, among other things, in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, we propose such a provision that would enable, naturally, all of these challenges to be met. We've already activated the domestic market. There is still room on the domestic market, and I am sure that many of you will give specific suggestions and suggestions. We are also looking at the international scene, where markets began to open after a certain period of imprisonment. What are the conditions? What's the position of the Republic of Croatia? Personally, I still think it's good. Of course, the conditions are not only for the Republic of Croatia but are getting worse, but this is also one source, as well as all multilateral financial institutions that we are also taking into account, as well as, of course, the programmes we are monitoring, which are developing at EU level, or the European Commission is leading the process. In any case, this is a package of measures like when we said for the first time that we will not stop at this to revive our economy, especially that part of domestic demand you can expect and that the following packages or circles or measures will primarily be directed not only at the economy and entrepreneurship, but also at citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195780	I would also like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance. Now let's go to the replicas, the first replicas will be sent to the Prime Minister, the first respected colleague, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195781	Mr. Prime Minister, what we said and suggested when it was the first package of measures, a write-off, and not a delay, I see that you accepted it and that these are the measures that everyone welcomes. However, I would ask you and you mentioned the Croatian village, Croatian peasants, Croatian agriculture. We know it was two years ago. The agricultural land law that we have unprocessed 790,000 hectares, of which is the state 400,000 hectares, and in 2.g. There is absolutely nothing divided between our peasants because the law has certain problems. And I made a bill of law, if you don't, then some minister finally wakes up out of her sleep and starts assigning land to a Croatian peasant. It's a key self-sufficiency. I hope when I spoke favorably of this, then you said it was my footings, my import lobby, and so on. And I hope that you too will change the paradigm, I guess it will be a paradigm to work Croatian because the country is freedom, without a country unworked there is no future.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195782	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195783	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Bulj. She will be the Minister of Agriculture here on Monday with the bill, so she will explain to you the whole package of measures relating to agriculture as I said, not only to go with the amendment of the basic law but also to the measure relating to surpluses in small milkers, to support and those dealing with plant production and livestock, and we are making sure that we buy everything that our fishermen are hunting or growing at this point, so that it is used in a whole way. This is an opportunity to further place emphasis on Croatian agricultural production since no one can safely assume at this time how long this crisis will last. And you saw yesterday that we made it quite clear that all public authorities, therefore, health institutions and police and military, for example, and will stay at the public procurement process for 60% of the purchases.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195784	Thank you. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195785	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. These measures are primarily aimed at helping the economy. However, the economy of the Republic of Croatia will be difficult to operate if, in this part, still operational workers cannot come to work. Yesterday and today we are witnessing a major problem with issuing passes, precisely for going to work for communication between individual units of local self-government. Of course, it should be commended to the intensity that the passes are being issued electronically, of course it should be commended to the intensity that all passes are centralized in one place, but it seems to us based on the problems that arise from both local self-government units and from citizens on the ground that the deadline left for issuing passes is too short. So I ask you, will you extend that deadline? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195786	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195787	I'm glad that you, too, Agent Grbin, as well as Representative Bulj, are praising the government's measures. Minister Malenica and all those in charge can say so freely to the various aspects of the e-Citizen system immediately resorted to the making of e-passes, solving these narrow throats that were identified yesterday. If necessary, we will also revise that deadline, the whole concept of civil protection activities. To repeat again, it is based on the recommendations of the epidemiologist. So there is no political volunteerism, there is no arbitrational behaviour of the authorities or headquarters, there is only one key task, which is to preserve the health of Croatian citizens. And that's why I repeat what I said in the introduction, looking at data in other countries, looking at the mortality rate of this measure has so far achieved results.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195788	Comrade Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195789	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, life will be after the crown and after the epidemic. What I'd like to hear from you is one question, how you'll keep state finances. In fact, you will now pump into the economy over 40 billion kuna. The economy will recover. Have you thought about the idea of that asset that you gave large companies to turn it into state co-ownership, that one day when these companies put in place again to sell those shares and then return some of the funds invested? It clearly does not refer to micro-entrepreneurs, craftsmen, small companies but you will give funds to both large companies and what should be clear to everyone that the funds that are now being invested should have a way to get them back when the situation is better, and it will certainly be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195790	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195791	Thank you very much, Mrsic, I think we are all aware that the measures we have taken are, firstly treasonous, secondly timely, thirdly preparing our economy, so employers of those who have an entrepreneurial spirit and idea for a moment after the crisis or at least when they are somewhat immersed and when they are gradually reactivated wider economic activities. And secondly, what is most important, so what is far more important is that these measures are primarily aimed at preserving jobs. They're targeting the workers. These fees go to keep people in companies as far as possible. There are also big ones who work, who have no income. What we want at this point is to do step three, and the third step is how to start an economy after the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195792	Thank you. Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195793	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, I'm sure we can call this set of measures April 1 0 and will certainly need some set of measures called April 2 0. What are we talking about? We're interested in everyone when this accident and this silent crown pass that we don't have a burnt country behind it. And it's absolutely good that you've listened to the opposition and that we have this set of measures that relate to making it easier for people to actually save jobs. But what is quite important will also be that after the crown we have associations that will continue to work, that we have a cultural sector that will continue to work. I'm aware we're not Germany. You must know what Germany did and the way it helped. I'm wondering if you're thinking about whether or not the restrictions that are to be tied together, especially those associations that will be involved in social care, I would like to stress that shelter for women victims of the settlement to be in some set. measure 2 0 and make a certain shift and a certain benefit there. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195794	Thank you, colleague Dark Taritash. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195795	Thank you very much, Mrak Taritaš, when it comes to these associations you mentioned, we will surely find ways to enable them to function and their work. As for the aspect of culture, I see that you mentioned it today, and you mentioned these days, I talked to Minister Obuljan, and we will look for solutions for this sector, and given the specificities, we have both fees and free artists, etc., they may have a slightly more specific status but they certainly deserve a way to overcome this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195796	Now it's up to the esteemed colleague of the Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195797	Dear Mr. President, under the circumstances, I survived this earthquake in Zagreb and I think that with all the institutions you have praised, your praise and our praise deserve and all the volunteers starting from groups of citizens to alpinists, to statisticians of every age who are very active in the recovery of earthquakes. Secondly, as far as pensioners and this protection are concerned, I am pleased, but I will talk about it on behalf of the club and explain why it is my opinion as well, and what I would ask you to explain to me, or explain it to the entire Croatian public, all the time we are talking about protecting jobs with entrepreneurs. It's not just business entrepreneurs who hire, hire a lot of other employers. And we're part of parties, associations and all of someone's employers. And there's this reason why someone can't come to work because they live 20 miles away, so please be specific.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195798	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195799	So you've heard the esteemed representative of the Hrelja and on the occasion of presenting the first package and this second, covering these measures the fact that 400 million kunas were already paid yesterday tell you how appropriate and affected they were. And once again, we didn't even say in our first presentation that we had some big dilemma between a delay and forgiveness. This is one thesis which sought to impose, as the thesis in Croatian politics is imposed, and in this communication space of conflict between private and public, these are false dilemmas in this crisis, both of which are false dilemmas. We're very real here and with a package like this, we're doing what's important to us right now. Our strategy is to have time now for the next steps, the next steps must be how to re-launch the economy and fast when this crisis is sinking. It's our basic task and we'll work on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195800	Thank you. Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195801	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister. The last time you represented these measures, I asked the same replica about the moratories, so now I'm very interested in both citizens and employers when banks give moratories whether they actually charge interest or not, sometimes that interest can be 50% of the annuity, especially if they're going to charge interest again later on, then it's not really help. And I'm curious, I know that we need to find money for this whole thing, and I understand that you said yesterday at the government and that you referred to the ministers for all the cuts just what is necessary, but hopefully already when we're not going to go against the logic that we're giving more work and less subsidising, we're paying some more jobs that won't apply to extra-accounters, that at least they're starting that part of the investment, that they're going to continue and that they're hiring our employers who then de facto will benefit less from these measures and there's no reason and yet we're going to get some other added value after all that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195802	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195803	Thank you very much. Mr. Curaj, as far as these loans and moratories are concerned, there is no compensation after the deadlines for reprogramming have passed, so this agreement has been reached and here is Minister Maric talking to all banks and they were quite responsible and I think we found a very fast common language. As for savings and investment, therefore a very important detail, we, when we talk about savings cuts, are then talking about all those expenditures that are not necessary, so we will distinguish that from the purpose of investments which, in this situation, bear and move the economy and realise ultimately and the state budget on various individual income operations. Therefore, it is not exclusively mutually, however, but all these investments, all of the investment by extra- budget users must be meaningful. We're not going to let anything be funded right now, just what's highly meaningful and useful under these circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195804	Comrade Bilek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195805	Thank you very much. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, Honored Vice President, Parliament Speaker, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's an interest in not a few things, first of all, I want to really praise the government's intensities especially in this second round towards entrepreneurship, according to the continuation of all economic activities so that we can feel this crisis as little as possible here. I'm only interested in one thing, it's about Croatia's waters whether or not there is a plan here because entrepreneurs pay, but also our citizens all in turn, is there a possibility there too? Furthermore, will the signed contracts with the ministries and other foundations and decisions of yesterday's government be respected? And the third thing, as regards the employees of the associations, do they have the right to these compensations regarding support for co-financing of salaries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195806	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195807	Thank you very much, Mr. Bilek. As regards all aspects of those contracts that have been signed, so you mentioned Croatian waters, everything that is signed and useful, and these are huge projects a whole series of European funds and European projects are used for agglomerations so for a water utility economy that are particularly important for raising the quality of life in certain Croatian counties and cities, this process will continue, however. We have signals from the European Commission that they want all the funds to be used, everything that is not allocated by which it can be used flexiblely for other projects, especially to combat this crisis and epidemic. As far as giving is concerned, we also had through the National Reform Programme a whole plan relating to the reduction of non-taxable duties and parafiscal burdens, we had a debate on it, certain savings were prepared. We need to reach a consensus through the month of April and see what activities will not stop if we cut something hard.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195808	Thank you. Comrade Chikotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195809	The Honorable President of the Croatian Government. Given that you stress the importance of economic activity and since you say it is extremely important that this economic activity continues and that it is important that we be flexible in using eu funds, we get such signals from the European Commission, I must say that I am amazed by your two decisions, decisions by the Government that say that all public calls and all acquisitions from all sources of funding will be suspended, so it stands in the Government's decision and says that only those expenditures will remain and will be focused on the basic and necessary functioning of individual bodies. So I'm asking you to clear that up. I also don't understand why the same decision states that the Minister of Finance will be given the opportunity to be an arbiter and that every user will contact him, which means that the Minister of Finance is actually above government decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195810	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195811	There is no minister above government decisions, you have very clearly explained it in an explanation, so what is the point in a crisis like this where we have to raise funds in a way that we shouldn't have done or had to. So at this point, we've already raised funds rather than commercial banks in Croatia, we're going to raise funds like I said in the international financial markets, we're going to get them out of international financial institutions, we're going to use what we get from European funds, and we're going to re-design in this crisis for what's important to us, and as far as those projects go, they're going to go with the proper control they're going to have, either the competent ministry as an implementing body, whether the Ministry of Regional Development, whether the Ministry of Finance, given the overall state of public finances in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195812	Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195813	Dear Prime Minister, it is a good thing that you have taken more serious measures to preserve employment, however, it is a bad thing that you plan to finance them from credit instead of direct emissions from the central bank that would not be burdened with debt and interest, and in this way you will in fact turn the rope of salvation into a noose around the neck of the Croatian state and people in the long term. However, I would like to ask you, about 150 thousand people who are unemployed, many of whom have no right to any remuneration from the Stock Exchange. I wonder if the Croatian state and these people will be given some means because they too have to live on something? The more many of them planned their jobs now in the season, and unfortunately without it, the employment remained evident. Did you think of them, too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195814	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195815	Thank you very much, Mr. Pernar. I think we've chosen a good, natural and logical and sustainable way of finding financial resources in these circumstances. As far as your second question is concerned, you know that we were practically up to a few months ago until, say, that was still half season or season last year on the lowest numbers ever in Croatia and now I think that we are somewhere over 140 thousand in this situation that we have, which is basically very good at the numbers we had a few years ago. So our policy was that all those who wanted to work, and before this crisis in Croatia could, absolutely, be able to find the job that everyone wanted. A series of measures we took through the Ministry of Labour, from measure to career, from desire, from Employment, there were so many, from self-employment, a series of measures that enabled people to start a business. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] The Minister of Labour will also take care of these people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195816	Thank you. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195817	Your Honor, Prime Minister. Croatian sovereigns welcome these measures and I will personally vote for this package of measures, I think they are good. However, here I must express regret that these measures did not work out 15 days ago when we warned that it should go, be late and it happened that we have thousands and thousands of newly employed workers at the Employment Office. If it were 15 days ago, I know that the objective circumstances are what they are, but if they were, today they wouldn't have these thousands of unemployed and the question is, how are you going to treat these people, would those employers who fired people out of fear, out of uncertainty, many and unwarranted, that we understand each other, how are you going to treat them? And the second question is about non-taxable duties, or parafiscal burdens that there are 239, if I am not mistaken. Will there be any reduction, will this make Croatia's entrepreneurship easier by this difficult situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195818	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195819	Thank you very much, Agent Zekanovic. I'm glad you support the measures. As far as your questions concerning parafiscal intrusions and non-taxable givings are concerned, I just answered that, we explained that at the press conference at the end of the line. There are many more of them, there are all 448 of them, all of them a working group co-ordinated by the Ministry of Economy for a long time under the National Reform Programme. The reductions were prepared, so maybe it's important for the Croatian public to know, of all the 448, there are about 20 of them, which is 7.8 billion kuna for you, and all of this remains somewhere around 8.7, I think. So these 20 are the most important. However, these 20 finance certain activities. And it's not something you can just break over your knee and say it now doesn't exist because then you don't have the means for certain activities, for example, Croatian waters. So we're working on a solution. which will enable both. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195820	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195821	Mr. Prime Minister. On 14th and 16th03, we had a joint meeting in the government, and I memorized your sentence, where you called for community, transparency, and you said, as we know, you will know. Twenty-four hours later, a meeting was held in the government that we don't know about, and you know it, and the public doesn't know about the meeting with the editors-in-chief of most of the media, those who discovered the affairs are left out, but it doesn't matter. I think it would be good for you to inform us about this meeting and especially about the fact that it has gone through the media, which is that one member of the government has promised media and aid in the form of advertising by public companies, therefore, it reminds me overwhelmingly of some events from the past, I hope it is not that intensity, so I ask you to explain to us what this is about and that the public knows what it is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195822	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195823	Dear Representative Bauk, I have the impression that you weren't at that meeting so that even if you were saying what you're saying, you're not speaking on the basis of the facts and speaking at that meeting, you're gleaning someone's media speculation. It is your right, but it is not good for you to speak as a representative in the Croatian Parliament something that is not true. The purpose of that meeting, where almost 30 people were at the meeting, where they were all key editors and editors and journals and weeklys and televisions and radios, so they were very targeted, was not a secret meeting, was held, I don't know, in the morning, where we explained to them at that moment the seriousness of the crisis in the same way we explained to you, the representatives of the opposition at that meeting, exactly with the same logic that we know, will know the public. No speeches about any subsidies or anything that you've tried to insinuate here, no words or will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195824	Thank you. Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195825	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister, so here's what colleagues say there were great skeptics about how much the government would do and how much it did in that short time when it was actually, the first moment was the coronary virus, and then unfortunately this earthquake. But what the government was doing from the beginning, which was doing to record the situation, that it should have seen its possibilities, and that it could actually project what it could offer at that moment, but also then we said that the government would work at all other stages. It is very important that this package of measures, which means a great deal to both citizens and entrepreneurs, and to the public as well. What is still to be said is that this government, unlike those in times of crisis, has made economic sense and is also making sense of income to local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195826	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195827	Thank you very much, respected representative Peric that is correct, we have given two messages to our partners at the level of units of local self-government. The first thing they will not get at this time is the fact that a number of income tax entrepreneurs are being released, so one of their incomes is based on our reforms and the method of funding units of local self-government that has left all more funding for projects for their activities, that we will compensate them from the state budget. However, what we also said is that we expect them under these circumstances and responsibility and solidarity and savings and a contribution to resolving the current situation in which we are all together. So this solidarity involves both activities and counties and cities and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195828	Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195829	The Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, therefore, as you said in the presentation of this measure, is also aimed at preserving jobs and the liquidity of the business sector. We had problems before this crisis, it wasn't exactly a great situation, and a large number of people who left the country witnessed it, and a strike of educators, on the other hand, we also had those people who wanted to earn extra kuna on the labour market, which are students who worked through student service, pensioners who worked extra with pensions. So all these people had problems. It is acceptable for me that these measures cannot be included, but I am asking you specifically now. When the government adopts measures that will help every citizen of the Republic of Croatia in terms of solidarity, as you said, in terms of its credit obligations, I am talking about obligations, credit obligations of citizens. Therefore, all those who are now at the Employment Service who will not be able to use self-employment measures or will lose the compensation they are now using to serve their obligations to directors and ultimately loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195830	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195831	Dear Representative Žagar, I would just like to remind you that in the term of this government achieved healthy growth, GDP growth of almost 3%, so 2.9% before this crisis, that we reduced the debt, that the budget was not only balanced but was in more cases in the term of our government and the surplus, that we returned Croatia to an investment credit rating, that we increased the employment that was higher by the number of insurance companies than it was 30 years ago when we had 700,000 more people, that we had record tourist seasons and that what I told my colleague, whoever wanted and worked, could have found a job in the Republic. That's one message. The second message is that the strike of educators in our mandate, 18.3% was the rise of public and state sector salaries, and the enlightener 23.5%, that never happened. So this context has nothing to do with what we're doing right now, these are measures to get out of the crisis and they're comprehensive. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195832	Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195833	Dear Prime Minister, isn't it unusual for you to let the green markets not work, and the other day you let the shops around the green markets work, on the other hand the shopping malls work, and there the virus spreads far better, so I appeal on behalf of all the peasants, the OPG, let it go already tomorrow because logically that there is far less chance of infection in the open space, if it should be the monks, if it should be people selling in gloves, masks, our people already have a culture of protection. Therefore, please do so because imports from Italy into the 1,000s are coming, thus the virus. On the other hand comes the greatest Christian holiday of Easter. Buy all market surpluses from small producers, from peasants and through the Red Cross, so Red Cross and other meanings to all institutions that are very much needed in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195834	Thank you, well-respected representative Lovrinović, unlike Mr. Bauk, who talks about meetings he was not aware of, you were at meetings with our Civil Protection Centre, which currently refers to markets and green markets, which also refers to the purchase of everything we can buy from the Croatian OPGs, there must not be any excess food at this time, let alone food that will fail whether it is done by the state, whether they pick up the trade chains and place it on the market, so that's one. But what we're going to do in the context of the market is we're going to ask the epidemiologist for very precise instructions on how when it comes to that step we make a step to make sure. Because any sudden drop in measures can cause a greater infection, the disease of our fellow citizens, and then death. We need to be extremely careful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195835	Comrade Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195836	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, why have you decided that the decisions that will have a very big impact on the state budget, perhaps the largest, because the decision on 4,000, decisions concerning forgiveness or suspension, or delaying the payment of certain taxes, are to be made by a conclusion, rather than by Parliament, in the same way that we will make these amendments to the law. Namely, one of the victims of the crown is both democracy and, as you have seen, it is thought and said that Hungary is the first crown victim of democracy. And in these moments, it's very important to take care of it, and that's why it's important that we sit here and discuss in front of the public these measures that you see people mostly support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195837	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195838	Thank you very much. As far as democracy is concerned, I think that we are operating in these conditions right now here in this building, not because we have an epidemic of the coronary virus but because of an earthquake that caused material damage in the Croatian Parliament, this is a matter of security more than an epidemic. Secondly, there is no single element in Croatia that could be called about having a threat to democracy, although the government normally works, the Croatian Parliament normally works, we make decisions. So that conclusion goes because otherwise it is the jurisdiction of the HZZ which is under the Ministry of Labour to prescribe the amount of these fees, so it is not the point now that we want to bring it as an executive power without communicating in the Parliament at the end that is why I am here today, which is why Vice President Maric is here to discuss the whole. And what we wanted was to reduce uncertainty and fear, these are messages of trust. So this amount of 4,000 kuna is a tax write-off and giving them a signal of trust to everyone in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195839	Thank you. Now we're going to the replicas sent to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. I thank the Prime Minister. We have four replicas so you can just prepare yourself for colleagues Batinić, Škibola, Daus and Shuker. My colleague Batinić is on his way first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195840	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, Deputy Minister of Finance. One question. In fact, in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, you provided for an unambiguous borrowing, which is certainly commendable for the initiative. Now I'm curious, that's the part that's going to get less local, regional self-government plus institutions, the possibility of unscathed borrowing to the amount of less tax revenue and income cuts, if I understand that correctly. The law on the financing of local self-government provides for a large number of local self-government and fiscal balancing. Is this about unambiguous borrowing plus even fiscal balancing for those units of local self-government that receive these additional funds? That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195841	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195842	Thank you very much. So this unambiguous loan or loan was introduced in that first round of measures, given that at that time we are only talking about the liquid effect, we are now practically talking about the loss of income both the state budget and local units, depending on the requirements, the number of requirements and all the numerical indicators that will follow after all these strong measures. As we have not ignored local self-government in any of our rounds of tax changes so far, you know that we are one of the laws and we have proposed that through the amendments to the Finance Act, full income tax revenue is granted to local self-government, so we will not now. At the same time, however, it is also decided to say today in some way to promise and take the obligation of all possible measures of this or that kind of compensation for liquidity loss or similar is very difficult because, as you have seen, some of the representatives were respected and referred to and to the conclusions of the government that we made yesterday, we give a strong message and concrete measures on our part. But the same strong appeal goes to public enterprises and local self-government for action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195843	Thank you. Here you go, pal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195844	Thank you, President of the Parliament. The Honorable Ministers of Finance. I'm interested in whether you're going to help the sailors and that the measures apply to the seamen because we know that they can't go on board right now, many of them are stuck on ships, and the law that applies to them is that if they don't go sailing in a year, then if they're not sailing 183 days, they have to pay certain taxes, taxes, so I'm interested in whether or not you've thought about them within these measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195845	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195846	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It is visible from these measures, of course, to focus on domestic economy and domestic business entities or citizens, but it is also not intended to ignore anyone. At the moment that we have done something concrete, or in terms of this, we have foreseen certain specific interests about them, of course, we will discuss these specific cases as well. The same question is whether the sailor is an employee of some domestic company or some international firm, just like anyone else who works on some job abroad. In any case, all such individual cases or isolated in relation to horizontal approach as so far, of course we will be willing to consider and see how and how to act is not the idea of turning back to anyone in one way or another in these circumstances. However, as we've all said many times already in one way or another, if not so far, then surely affected by a virus coronary defect, in terms of economical, I don't mean health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195847	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195848	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. The IDS welcomes these measures, we are pleased to find them correct and concrete that they were proposed, they are on the trail almost entirely of what IDS was talking about 15 days ago. I'm just interested in your opinion, and might that be better, in part or in full release of certain tax duties, 20 to 50 or over 50%, is that sample from three months of April to June enough, or would it be fairer to avoid any manipulations and calculations from 49 to 51% is little to be a sample throughout the year, and until then, a moratorium on payment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195849	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195850	Thank you, Your Honor, for your support and for your constructive contribution to the debate in the first round of our debates, and here we are now. The measure is as such an intention of activity itself and measures more than clear. Now the very way of implementation, definitions and criteria and everything about these shades can always be discussed. However, I think it is very clear to all of us that the state administration has done a very good job, and that is that all these criteria that we have prescribed are extremely understandable and simple and passing. In some circumstances, however, you have to underline a line somewhere and a line somewhere. After all, even employers have suggested you have to put some sort of so-called. Treshvol, some limit before and after, or in one way or another. I wish I could say that in three months this would be enough, no one happier than me, no more than you, no more than all of us present, nor, I would say, and wider than this very hall. But as we said for the first time, depending on the development of the situation if there is any need and we will react further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195851	Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195852	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President and Minister, both you and the Prime Minister when you presented these first measures, you said that the government would react to the need and you simply confirmed what you said. However, I believe that certain things that the government is taking on would require a more financial emphasis and these 4,000.00 are not actually 4,000.00, but 5.820,00, because the government will take over the cost of pension and health care and that will be on the budget's spending side. Then you have to say it ultimately costs so much and so much to make it clear. The second thing that needs to be pointed out here is the very responsibility of all stakeholders in this process. As they point out at headquarters every day, so in this economic area too, you need to highlight that responsibility and I'm glad you're in art. 1. The General Tax Law in St. 6 made it clear what would happen to those who jumped on a train that did not belong to them. Those who want to withdraw benefits, and they don't, because this money just needs to be left to those who are most needed at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195853	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195854	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Both notes are in place. I'll start with this other one. I think in these circumstances, I also said this in the first round of debate, certainly and circumstances as well as timelines and all circumstances that are related to everything, do not allow surgically precise measures thought out to the smallest possible detail, but we are doing our best to really try to predict everything more possible at this point, not at this particular point in time. However, financial, fiscal and any other discipline must exist and this is also one clear message that these intentions and measures are for real and good entrepreneurs. If there's gonna be anyone on the road who's gonna get on the train, we'll talk about it later. In particular, as far as this measure is concerned, 4,000,00 you're right about the contributions of 5,825,00. What is most important is that we have managed to do so today before you and present the measure that and what has been paid so far will also be taken over to the burden of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195855	Thank you. I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. Now we're going to the debate, I got a signal that a colleague of mine called Zekanovic is asking for a break. In violation of the Rules of Procedure, here's my colleague Zekanovic for just a second, here's my colleague, Bauk. [[Injury of the Rules of Procedure]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195856	Mr. President, the officer has been injured. In 235, which you and I know about the inability to replicate MPs, but the violation of the Rules of Procedure requires in a formal sense that I may then request a session of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System to define the way in which we work in such conditions so that we no longer argue at the session by calling the representatives of the matches, etc., and in that sense I declare that I will also request a session of the Committee on the Constitution in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195857	Comrade Bauk, so we've defined the rules of conduct, they're not as common as they are because we have the coronary virus as a threat and we've put chairs here so that all MPs are protected. So, now in these circumstances, to say that I hurt the Rules of Procedure because there is no replica, we agreed earlier that two representatives from each club participate in the debate, I think it's very incorrect because then we can say that all MPs can be in the assembly today, and they're not, so we agreed because they're extraordinary conditions. So please accept this one. As far as the matchmakers are concerned, I said they're acting like a matchmaker, I didn't call anybody, but I think if we agree on the rules of the game, then someone comes and tries to trick me and I don't think that's right. My fellow coat of arms, here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195858	Your Honor, Mr. President, an officer has been injured. 233 and 234 and 235. Rules of Procedure. The deal's a deal. And the agreement between colleagues and colleagues is mostly respected. But the deal is not rules. The rules are in the Rules of Procedure on the work of HS. The Rules of Procedure on the work of HS we are obliged to stick to. If we want to translate the agreement into something binding, we have a provision. 234. The Rules of Procedure on the work of HS, then we apply it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195859	I said what I had, so I don't want to say it again. Comrade Zekanovic, please take a break. My colleague Bulj is also looking for a break. As far as I know, you're still in the same club with a colleague, Zekanovic, so you can't have two breaks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195860	I'm looking for a five-minute break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to further consult on this set of laws. Namely, once again I must warn and ask whether we, or the Croatian Government, were blind when she watched for several months the coronary crisis coming from the far east towards Europe? The Republic of Croatia has not been the only one acting indifferently, I would dare say the whole of Europe, the whole EU has been waiting for the crown crisis to happen. Unfortunately, it was, it was so, not all that could be done in good time. Some measures have been taken, but most measures have not been taken. I also asked a question here that was very important, and I didn't get an answer and I'd ask it again. What will happen to all those unemployed, newly unemployed people who got fired because of the fear of the crown crisis, which the employers sent to HZZ and today simply have no income? Here again and this crisis will break over the back of the weakest, so it usually happens, over those who wanted to work seasonally, and they won't be able to work, over the back of those who got fired because employers were scared justifiably or unjustly of this crown crisis. So these are things to talk about and have to be offered a solution. The measures aren't bad. However, I must say that the measures are late, that 15 days ago this set of measures proposed by Croatian sovereigns would not have had 10 thousand newly unemployed at the employment office. So, the whole of Europe, the whole of the EU, but I'm even going to say Western civilization watched the crown crisis come, nothing happened, I must say that I am also from a pay phone in the Croatian Parliament 5. Majors warned the government of the Republic of Croatia that we should prepare ourselves. We are where we are and we must use this crisis to help the Croatian state as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195861	Thank you, the break will be approved. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195862	Thank you very much for asking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to consult on the government's proposal. I'm going to say again at the beginning that MOST independent lists in the first package proposed a write-off, not a delay, this is a little late, but better ever than never and of course we're going to support these measures. However, we must say that this crisis, the crown crisis, has exposed the bad policies implemented by Croatian governments. The policies that we have at this point mean that we have never imported food products again, and today the markets are closed, regardless, here is a question for all of us, which is why the markets are closed, and in the trade chains we can buy where there are more vulnerable and cashiers in the indoor area, which is why the market, me, is unclear, and in these trade chains the foreign, the agricultural products of Italian pomadors, will now have Spanish strawberries, while the example of Vrgorje strawberry now 500 tonnes will have no space to sell its own products. So why can't we at the markets make the measures that the call means our Civil Protection headquarters? For what? What's gonna make those strawberries fall apart? They are now 500, 600 tonnes, and so is dairy production, so all agricultural products and dairy products. It has engulfed Croatia's policies mainly agriculture in unprocessed land, 790,000 hectares in the Republic of Croatia's agricultural land is unprocessed as we import 3 billion euro of harmful products. This is why the import lobby responsible for the damages in Croatia destroyed agriculture has evicted our people from the village, and until the village is at the helm until it's over. Until there is a rich peasant and the village of Croatia will have problems mainly in these crises. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195863	The apartment will be approved. My colleague Ostojić, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195864	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the SDP Club, I am saddening the break because it is very important to warn, and just before my colleague Pusic said so, which is that one of the victims of the virus's crown is also democracy. That can't happen here in the assembly. You, Mr. President, are obliged to respect the Rules of Procedure, and the clubs have agreed to the agreement, and there has never been a word in there that the replicas will be lifted. Obviously, when one thing is allowed, it goes on. It is also the fear that exists in the Croatian public, which is that if we agree and if it becomes a norm it will be a serious problem. Deal and recommendation yes, all right. That's what the crisis headquarters does, but it can't happen that you call MPs and matchmakers, or that they're people who just want to consume what's prescribed by the Rules of Procedure adopted in this assembly. We agreed to these conditions, it's not easy to work here, we stick to 2 here, the SDP has shown constructiveness from the very beginning, we haven't asked it to be according to the number of MPs precisely because we respect the situation we're in. But you must be the first, first defender of democracy and make the most of it. The deal can't be a norm, it's something of a recommendation and don't deny the right that we have under the law and under the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195865	My colleague Ostojić, I don't think you've been here, I asked when my colleague Lovrinović suggested that we discuss 15 minutes per club if we would then accept that provision and that there was no replicating more than 2 per club. And everyone agreed to the coat of arms that was here. And now you call me why. Well, that's amazing, I mean, but what am I supposed to do now? Here's a fellow Pupavac, no, not what you need. No, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, buddy Pupavac. What's wrong with you? ... Kologa Ostojić, we have reached an extended agreement at the presidency that two MPs will participate in the debates and we stick to it and this morning you come now to want everyone to participate with the replicas. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] That was in front of the assembly. We enter the assembly, he suggests that fellow Lovrinovic extend the debate around the clubs. I accept that, and then I say are you ready to have two replicas on behalf of the clubs? Get along with your club. And now you're calling me "Why am I applying it?" Well, because there are extraordinary circumstances and not everything is prescribed then to this Rules of Procedure, but it is a matter of agreement and some elemental correctness between us that we can function at all. Now you call me like I went to cheat on you. And to the colleagues who went in knowing that a deal had been reached and trying to use it so that someone didn't notice it, I said that some act as if they were matchmakers. So I didn't name anyone, but I said that this kind of fraud isn't correct and it's been exposed. Here you go. My fellow Pupavac, I apologize, but here's my colleague Ostojić insists, so I'll give him the right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195866	Injured Rules of Procedure, Article 234, Mr. President, is the usual procedure in the assembly that you cannot deny me the right to harm the Rules of Procedure, that is why I am telling you. The second deal can't be a norm. The third one you agreed at the meeting and the deal that was in the assembly, and the second one here and the third one, don't say that we weren't there, we were out there because there could only be two of us inside. It's not there. agreed never at that meeting [[The incursion of the president: I thank you.]] Present, excuse me... [[Break president: colleague Ostojić, thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195867	Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195868	You can't, I haven't run out of time when you interrupted me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195869	No, you're out of time for five seconds I gave you more than what was planned, that's 30 seconds. Thank you very much. I don't think there's been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, so here's your colleague, Pupovci.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195870	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS advocates' club is looking for a break to confirm once again whether our position and our opinion is that the government and that the Parliament, that the state institutions have done well in protecting three things, protecting people's health and people's lives, protecting the health and sustainability of the economy and protecting the sustainability and health of democracy in Croatia. Those who say Croatia was late, let them take a look when America left. Let them see when the Great Britain is on its way. Those who say that Croatia has possibly applied a bad model, let them see if we have had any dilemmas about the application of medical, sanitary or any other model as some countries had and modified it in the middle of the health crisis. Secondly, as far as the economy is concerned, the tenacity in this case is reasonable. And colleagues who say they suggested something yesterday, which the government today has accepted every honor, but the gradualness in this case is reasonable because too many measures and premature measures in the economy can also be dangerous, as can be dangerous for those who are not on time. So far things are going on time. As far as democracy is concerned, as you once said, it seems to me that the prime minister is in a position to balance between excellence and regularity. If there are things that need to be fixed, as there are some laws, there are amendments tabled here, they are invested by clubs, they are invested by committees, and these amendments should certainly be considered by the Government in the most serious way to preserve that balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195871	The apartment will be approved. Now it's Comrade Sagar's turn, and he's also asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195872	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of HSU, SNAGA, independent representatives, SNAGA and New Policy, I also request a five-minute break in order to agree on government measures to save jobs and liquidity of entrepreneurship. And on the other hand, to once again argue that these measures, although good, do not cover all those aspects that are at stake in the Republic of Croatia at this point. Whether it's about citizens who are in a different social situation, whether they're unemployed citizens, whether they're students, pensioners, or sailors mentioned here by their colleagues. Whether it is other vulnerable groups that are not covered by these measures that are likely to be in danger tomorrow that they cannot service their directors or their loans, we therefore believe that the Government must come out with such measures as soon as possible. The other aspects we want to consider are the processes that are at risk in Croatian society. It is certain that this crisis also affects democratic processes in the Republic of Croatia. We can't close our eyes and say it's not like that. This confirms today's debate here in the assembly where it is actually incomprehensible that we are at all discussing whether or not a representative in HS can speak. A representative in HS can and must speak, that's his job. That's why someone came from their home here, endangering health and those who get there, where they'll come back, and then those who are here. That's why I think you can see it. The second thing we need to take seriously is the position of all of our students who and the teacher, who are doing so in this situation. The distance school and they come, they're actually asking about their testing, their evaluation, their colleges and their national prom. It is urgent that measures should be taken not to, in fact, prevent all those misunderstandings that appear in public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195873	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. All MPs will be able to speak in individual debates, so there is no dispute or dilemma about it. Comrade Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195874	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Democrats to warn of the position of the workers in the crown crisis. In fact, it is commendable that the employers will be paid four thousand kunas to workers, but our employers have inventive methods of keeping some of these funds rather than paying the workers. Instead of the government making an effort and paying the funds directly to the current accounts of workers, it is a little harder, but it is much safer for workers to get what they deserve. Also, there are inventive methods to send workers, instead of waiting, to benefit from part of their vacations and all that is what the government has not responded and what the Ministry of Labour and the pension system has failed to do. We can see that jobs are lost on a daily basis, and many are already lost and all of this confirms that the government's reaction in this area is delayed and has left the situation to the employers, instead of sitting down with the unions and starting a tripartite dialogue at these moments because it is something that will ensure that there are no more privileged and less privileged. The government, together with employers and trade unions, was to sit at a common table, agree on the measures we will be working on in this crisis because these measures would be much better quality and would not lead to what we have today, that workers are currently at risk on the labour market and that employers are protected by these measures. I declare that the government initiates a tripartite dialogue and that a social agreement is reached in Croatia between Governments, trade unions and employers around [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] getting out of the crown crisis. [[Intruder president: Stanka.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195875	The apartment will be approved, thank you. Now it's Stephen Curaj, a colleague on behalf of the CNS, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195876	I thank the Honorable President, I demand a break on behalf of the CNS to discuss both these measures and this emerging situation. First of all, as far as the measures are concerned, we can talk here, but the fact is that these are extraordinary circumstances that require and extraordinary measures, something that no one has ever had a chance to meet before, and something that we can't do over our knees, overnight, and knock our heads off regardless of because there's a lot of things here at stake. First of all, the safety and lives of our citizens, and then what happens later. We also need to think about what will happen later and how life will continue as soon as possible, but we are also thinking about the economy, and that is why it is time to think about the second step now, which later. So it's in that direction that I've been talking about both public procurement and the thresholds and about the state having to generate a job after this crisis and already at a time of crisis because the more work we give for something that we're going to have to do anyway, the more value we're going to have to do, and we didn't just give the money, but we got one more value. As far as working here, I know this is unusual, but I ask all my colleagues, clubs, to put their individual egos aside, I know there are a lot of people who would like to talk about it right now, the deal is what it is, we've all agreed here, and we just might just sit down at the table again, agree something, but I think it's a good thing that we're not burdening our standard way of meeting now the Croatian public when it's least necessary, but again to do what it is and the purpose of this whole thing to do what's best for these citizens. And that's why first at the club level, then and then at the level here I think how good this way of working is and I invite everyone that those who don't really have to take pictures and talk here to give it to colleagues that.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195877	The apartment will be approved. My colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195878	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am looking for Stanku on behalf of the HDS, HDSSB and HSLS Club to further consult on the debate on points that are on the agenda, or to manage to collect additional data compared to the measures taken by the government at the time of the crisis which was more significant and less important, given that there are just a few colleagues who were at the time, a good part of them were ministers in that government, today here in the debate on these points of the agenda that our citizens, our entrepreneurs, our employees are waiting to hear what is being discussed here today, which is going to vote, which are the measures that will help them overcome their daily difficulties and this crisis, hear such overlap and this sorting, formalisation and politics. It will be an opportunity for all those colleagues who, in some ways, wish to offend what the Croatian Government is doing in the management of this crisis, and it is estimated that everyone is making very good moves that they may be consulting among themselves a little bit and that in some ways we should approach the continuation of this debate and be as responsible and in the interests of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195879	Thank you. The apartment will be approved. Now it's time for you, dear colleague Ivan Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195880	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I request a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to reaffirm their support for the government once again and to highlight certain matters. Because it's obvious that when you have nothing concrete to object to, it's the easiest thing to say that something is too late. However, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we want to highlight first and foremost the government's responsible and rational behaviour since the start of this crisis. So, the government did not run ad hoc with measures, these measures, the first measures preceded a series of talks, starting with resolution ministers, through the complete financial sector with employers, with unions for one single reason to come to a common position from where to start, because it is not only being considered today in these measures by the government, but also by the Prime Minister and the Vice President and the Vice President are constantly stressing, but also thinking about what will be tomorrow when this stops. And that may be the greatest quality of all this together. So, first of all, responsibility and rationality, because if we don't act this way, if we don't watch how much all the stakeholders of the financial sector can contribute at the moment, and that ultimately, it costs Croatia's citizens and the Croatian economy first and foremost, then this won't be effective. And the logical thing is that the Prime Minister for the same table sat the Minister, the governor of the CNB, the bankers, should include insurance companies and pension funds, take advantage of the possibility from the EU, take advantage of the maximum full potential that we are currently given to help the economy and what is very important that the Prime Minister and vice president emphasized, and it may well have gone a little bit on the side, which is that the next package is being considered, which is to help Croatian citizens who need it most. It only clearly states how rational the government is thinking and how ready it is to react at any moment to complete the measures if the situation so requests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195881	Thank you. I'll give you a break. Let's go now, dear colleague of the Anka Dark Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195882	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the GLAS Club. During our discussion and replicas there, the city of Zagreb shook 2.3 again and shaking it all the time. We would like to see if, through certain amendments to these laws, we can also install the problem of the earthquake or the consequences of the earthquake in the City of Zagreb. The HDZ coalition partner at both state and city level is Mr Bandic Milan, who made it clear that he is in no hurry. Well, it would be good then and clearly say that the state will rebuild its facilities, that the City of Zagreb will restore its facilities and it does not require a special law, but who will renew the citizens of the City of Zagreb for this is the law needed. And if you have decided to leave the citizens of the City of Zagreb and their own consent, so who will be able to manage, who will not, someone else will manage for him. That clearly needs to be communicated. We will see if it is possible through these laws which are very limited framework to do something and send some message to the citizens of Zagreb that they are not left behind. Because the citizens of Zagreb were left behind, at this point all these cranes you see, these are not cranes that are there because someone organized, regardless of the state or city, they organized themselves with their own resources. Don't let the result of the earthquake in the city of Zagreb be something that's already being told a lot, which is, the state will rebuild, the city will rebuild, those who have money will restore their money, and those who won't have money will be the mechanics who will buy, tear down, and suddenly the earthquake in the city of Zagreb will turn into some kind of mixed business. We can't let that happen, and it certainly can't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195883	Stanka will be approved and we will go to the last request for a break, a respected colleague, Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195884	Thank you, Mr. President. In front of the Club We change Croatia and Live Wall I demand a break to discuss the package of measures we have heard here. Namely, what's this about? Only in one sentence did the prime minister and finance minister mention the CNB, and when we look at, from America, Western European countries and to Japan, central banks still play a key role in solving the crisis. Why? Because only central banks can offer unlimited liquidity in their currencies. The finance minister said that saving the economy would cost about 45 billion and added 20 more. However, he did not answer the question where he would obtain the necessary money. From here I warn you, there is no need for you to be in charge especially abroad but exclusively on the domestic market. If you're on the domestic market, then at least 3/4 of the CNB at 0% interest. If you do otherwise, you will be responsible for this because you have simply done damage to the Croatian economy and the people. This, these loans from the CNB, it's folk, it's gotta be folk, it's never been. So this happens once in 30 years, so these interventions have to go that way. On the other hand, we suggest, Mr. President, helicopter money, and you know, you've heard what it is, it's been shared by Trump these days, Australia has divided. Many other nations shared, even Serbia the other day. It is that the central bank, the CNB, directly identifies all adult citizens in Croatia 2x per 2,000 kuna, means 4000 kuna, to preserve consumption, demand, thus producing, hiring and affecting a lower GDP decline. Those are measures, they're state-owned, listen to them, it doesn't matter what we suggest. Some things you have well announced, but these are crucial and we must now, for hours here, save the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195885	Thank you. The apartment will be approved. So we'll continue at 11 o'clock and 45 minutes. The first Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, dear colleague Bozo Petrov, will speak. It's a date. The meeting's over. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. The first is a respected colleague, Bozo Petrov, on behalf of the Association of Independent Lists Bridges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195887	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us today is a new package to mitigate the consequences caused by the coronary virus epidemic in our society, in our economy. We've already started a discussion in an optimistic tone. What we can see with this new package of measures that the government adopted yesterday at its session is that they have partly adopted those proposals given to them by entrepreneurs, citizens, but so have we as an opposition. And that's good. If there were a little more will to listen, they could have happened two weeks ago. But I don't think it's time for such discussions right now, the most important thing is that the government has decided to take more decisive measures and that's good. First of all, of all the measures that have been adopted, the most important one is the write-off, not the delay, and that's what the Most emphasizes from the very beginning, the delay was not enough. I'm glad the government adopted it. That now the write-offs of direct donations have been adopted and this package itself makes enough decisive measures that we can have a real time-out for the economy. Time-out for two months. Not a solution. But we have plenty of time to consolidate and bring in the right measures that will help our economy return. Also, by passing this law, it became clear that the government debt would grow and that there were no small figures, tens of billions of kuna being said. And I want to underline that precisely because we need to be aware that the state will be in charge. Question by which coefficients, by which interest. We also don't know how long this crisis will take, but it's important to point out that the citizens know that. She's going to be in charge of all of this. Someone will lend it, but the debt will come back, the debt must be paid back, and the citizens should be aware that it will be paid back by all taxpayers through their taxes next year. As for the measures taken by the others, there are plenty. Some are good, some could be designed even a little better in the short or in the medium term. We think that some of these measures should be permanent, to show that the paradigm of the state-economic relationship has changed, that's what we can listen to all the time in the last two weeks, the change in the paradigm. I want to see that some changes to some decision, some measures that have been taken in the last two weeks to be permanent, not to be temporary. So we showed that the paradigm of the country's relationship to the economy has really changed, and that it has changed the paradigm of economic policy, that's important. I'll take one measure the government said would be temporary, when it would become permanent and then you've made a real change in the paradigm of state and economy relations, and that's VAT collection at charge. This is what MOST has warned of for years, according to the finance minister today in peacetime conditions. You'll remember we used to say that a lot of times. Why? So it's just not right for the state to be the first in line to charge when the entrepreneur does something and produces that the state doesn't care whether he manages to charge it or not, the state immediately charges VAT immediately per invoice, as soon as he issues the bill. It's not correct, we warned about it. Now that this situation has finally led to it, let's call it a VAT break, so is it correct after a few months when the situation stabilizes to get back to bad practices? This measure that finally triggered this epidemic, this crisis, this measure should be permanent. Now she's gonna show that we've really learned lessons and previous crises and this crisis. In addition to this measure, there are still certain measures that we believe should be lasting, which we have talked about before, that is to erase the tax advances on profits. It's also a reinvested profit relief, they can be permanent. You will send them a message, with them you will send a message to investors and creditors that we have changed our relationship to the economy, to workers and to entrepreneurs, that we are friendly towards all those who want to invest in Croatia, to all those who have any entrepreneurial initiative. There is also one measure that the Government has unfortunately not yet adopted as a proposal, but we will continue to insist on it because we consider it extremely important, which is to provide State support grants for micro and small entrepreneurs, i.e. For those self-employed craftsmen, for freelancers, for family businesses, my people don't have enough liquidity to endure months as large systems, they may not have enough financial resources to support the month, but they carry part of this economy, for them it should be made possible. Every enterprise, no matter how big a praise is worth it. If you don't think so, let's be brave, you go out as a self-employed person in a real economy like this, face all those gifts that a man like that needs to give to the state, provide himself with the rest of his life benefits, and then say they don't matter and have enough. Given all the pressures, all the donations that were supposed to give to the state, secure their own pay, believe me, they're heroes right now, and they should be helped, too. The state needs to provide grants for these people, for self-employed, for freelancers, for small family companies. It is also time for the state to undergo a rapid transformation of agricultural production. Our agriculture is fragmented, not as effective as our competitive countries are. Also, many state and private land is unprocessed and, of course, there are acute problems that need to be addressed immediately, which is that our agricultural products come from the fields to our tables. And these broken chains, the buying-in channels of the states need to be solved, and broken chains of states directly at this point need to be solved. In addition, what is acutely to be solved is to allow people to do the necessary work in agriculture now because they are now working, not in a month, two or five months, now. And that's what's acute and that's what needs to be done. But other than what is acute, there are systemic problems in agriculture. The biggest systemic problem is unprocessed agricultural land today in Croatia, which is over 600,000 hectares of which is 300,000 hectares, almost 300,000 hectares owned by the state. When the state passed the Law on Agricultural Land, it is two years old, they said it would help distribute that very agricultural land. The last two years totaled 11,000 hectares of 300,000, and this rest became hostage politics and blackmail at county and local levels. That's what the state needs to deal with today. We must, I guess, learn to be self-sufficient, self-sustainable. This means that one of the main fundamental economic branches in Croatia should be agriculture. Yeah, we hear from the government that she finally realized what I don't want to stay on the verbal level. I haven't heard from the government exactly this most important piece of information and the most important measure, you put into operation 300,000 processed agricultural areas that are in your possession, which you don't assign. Assign it even if it's free, grant it on condition that it finally starts to be used, let it be the only condition, but let people work. I believe that there are enough people in Croatia today who want to deal with agriculture, but a number of bureaucratic problems and pillars exist on that path, and besides that, there is approximately no love for those who should do so. With all these other problems that I have cited so far, at least we can be honest and honest today, we can say that the current agricultural policy has led to an almost burned country. I guess this lesson taught us. In addition to these topics, I would like to talk about those people that the Croatian government obviously doesn't hear enough at this time of silence. Shut up about the 230,000 people who have been completed, who have had problems so far, and now imagine what all the problems will happen to them with this crisis. We could hear from the government that he was going to pass a new executive law, he didn't pass, it didn't happen. As a result, MOST will give legislative changes to the parliamentary procedure that will allow temporary and they will be given the opportunity to postpone the execution due to special circumstances that have occurred as a result of the coronary epidemic. It's simply not fair that the minimum amount that the government has now given because of this situation that it is being completed and that it goes to the executives is simply not correct, it's not fair. The government must act accordingly, not be silent. We still hear nothing but silence about it. If the state in the national solidarity of wage keeping act has given jobs a minimum of 4,000 kuna, why don't we leave it to people, why do you allow it to be taken away by 230,000 people who are under wraps? Other countries did it, Slovenia did it first, it's nothing weird, it's not impossible, it can be and it needs it. At the end of my presentation, I'll just talk about public sector cuts because they need to be done. What I should also warn you of all that has so far been almost impossible to do, all these bureaucratic columns, walking from counter to counter, no today, interesting. Everything we've heard that can't be spent years digitizing, in a few days or weeks you've done. So you can, you can do 100% of the digitization that is your indicator today of everything you do and that can include the domestic IT industry. But what I must warn you is that politicians, officials, are the first to show by example that they will give up, that they will help, that they will bear the burden. But don't let it stay on it because then it's cheap pulsism. Do not ask us to agree that you will cut the salaries of the education sector, the health sector as long as you have not arranged what is important, and this is this mess of 550 municipalities, 20 counties, belonging to city municipal county companies, belonging to state-owned companies. That's what you do. That's what you're supposed to do. And when you do, then you can transfer the burden to both health and education sectors, without it it's all cheap populism and you have no right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195888	Before we move to the second debate of the HNS Representatives Club, just a notice. Therefore, in agreement with the applicants on Monday at the end of these announced laws, three points of the agenda would then be discussed, namely the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the HNB Act, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions and Investment Companies. Also after Tuesday's vote, they would hold a united debate on 10 SDP-proposed legislative proposals, so that would be Tuesday after the vote. That you will get naturally in this week's motion debate for next week. We are now going to the club of representatives of the HNS are two representatives, the first colleague is Curaj, after him a colleague of Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195889	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Immediately at the start of the HNS club will support these new proposed measures. In principle you can see a lot of shifts, some of the things that I talked about here last week, but also in the Parliament the first time the measures were taken are now the same and implemented and in the extreme line, I believe in the framework of possibilities. What's important, what suffers most not only our employers when we talk about the economy but also citizens are at times of pay cuts, do not give God the loss of work and all the credit obligations of the same. What is good and what I think for the first time in a while the CNB reacted so significantly that it reduced the minimum reserves by a quarter, so from 12 to 9% and also made it possible for all those who were regular, and now we are talking about measures towards banks, which were regular in subsisting their obligations from 31.12.200, their now delays do not pay as a reservation or as a cost. And that's where one space was created and liquid, and possibly for banks to just introduce these moratories. Moratories on the principle that three months nothing is paid and you move on at the end of the payment plan, you add those same three months. So, that the cost is important that this moratorium does not generate additional costs at the end of the entire payment period, both for economies and for citizens and that citizens are informed about their banks some have already begun to give instructions and that is good and certainly I call on citizens, it is also good to remember, as well as employers to regulate according to their opportunities. What you would certainly say as the main motto of ours is that we always go in all measures with maximum write-off, and minimally with red tape. And I think that on the trail of this information that we've been getting lately that we're already making payments for this fee for 3,250 kuna or now 4,000 which is going to be that we're even going to pay off and that the tax solution is very fast that this is exactly on that trail and that we need to allow as little tax burdens on our employers and the economy as possible, and that's how we're doing with these measures and we're very much doing it there, I'd like to just find a solution for the associations as much as possible. We have various associations, from those sports to those who exercise some public authority, social etc., whose funding is, is not questionable and they also have a lot of employees to be, that they can actually apply to this type of measure and tax exemption of contributions and the income tax itself, as well as these measures 4,000 kuna aid. What is important in this, and there would certainly agree to use this to rightly improve this relationship business to govern, so the way our employers, our companies, our business owners, craftsmen, above all, that we must not forget in this whole thing because they are still the most affected by the state that this electronic communication is absolutely perfected and maintained afterwards. What I want to mention and what I want us all to think about right now, not now to bid here, who's going to give more, who's going to be smarter, who's going to help better, who's going to grab maybe.../incomprehensible/... doesn't even know where to grab it, because we need to know that we need to have a balanced part so we can't give towers and yards, and we don't have cover or know what tomorrow. So I also said in the replica, we need to think about what in 2, which in 3 months, how to stimulate the season, how we obviously will have the greatest part of the potential of tourism in our own citizens, how to motivate them and through some kind of maybe tax relief, payment of accommodation, whatever, to save that season that will certainly be drastically lower in the results now, but also that the state is starting what I've already said several times, what it has planned this year and the next two years in some projection period, work fast, intensively in the next few months, through its own credit duties, plans, for something that remains, which is added value of renewal. So if we need to equip schools and we know that in the next 2, 3 years we're going to have 1,800 classrooms not to wait 3 years, we're going to do it in the next 3 months or when it starts. We are talking about low construction of the Croatian highways have a plan this year to rebuild 100 km of highways, this year, we are going to do it now that there is no more traffic on the roads, especially because of tourism and everything that has otherwise brought us the biggest traffic. And so on in the renovation means equipment, where you hire more industries, more that won't even need these measures, and it won't be to the extent that when we talk about write-offs, it won't even cross traffic over 50% to get write-offs. And in this way, the state actually stays more or less in the same place because someone will have to give it to him if he doesn't give him jobs and if he doesn't provide economic activity, and on the other hand, all of these things will be in order and there will be extra value left, so those roads remain, those facades remain, these equipment, benches, schools, whatever. There are various things that are certainly in some planning and investment maintenance plans, and the point is to go into everything that doesn't need any extra project documentation, that some public procurement is carried out for months, even years, etc. Anything that is possible quickly, by urgency, by offer, practically negotiating procedure 3 offers, but not certainly at prices that differ from the average of the same supply to the last one, I don't know how many 6 months, a year, however you want. So you can make those restraint mechanisms. And that's actually what we should be telling us how to activate the economy and how to welcome that day after. Is what we've given someone money if they're not after two months when they no longer have the right to do what they're going to do, I won't say thrown into the wind because someone lives off that money and it's good, more or less those who don't now would get similar and fee from the bureau so they'd be on the same, but our goal is to encourage that economy. So let's try to think that way, with suggestions and we need to be constructive. It is absolutely no time to bid and court the citizens but what is possible in the frameworks and therefore the HNS and supports these particularly other measures the Government will and will support them and let's talk about what will be the day after.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195890	Thank you, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, Minister, means I will briefly look back on these measures and this part of the measures relating to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, in order to in some way enable local and regional self-government unambiguous lending, which was announced in the first wave. Equally, at local level, we will feel a reduction in income from taxes because we are mostly financed from taxes and income cuts. The city tax is so to say communal compensation and contributes more or less aware of the circumstances of the situation if they are not, I think that the vast majority of local self-government leaders have already made one step, from the release of those who do not work, to the possible participation of the minimum of those who do yet, from co-financing of kindergartens etc., etc. I can practically say from my own experience that somewhere in projection during the duration and recovery of all these municipal taxes that my budget gave up around 10% of tax revenues. What is the projection of the decline in income at the bar, how much will be with the basis of tax and income cuts at the moment is difficult to assume. If we go mathematically fast, given the number of these benefits the minimum wage to say, how many jobs have already been reported, companies that use what praises are valuable measures can expect a drastic drop in tax revenues at the level of local self-government. Of course, it will vary depending on the structure of the revenue side. Now, the interest of all countries here has been very clearly specified in these measures, life cannot, must not stand, investment as much as possible must continue, of course, in accordance with the financial opportunities and fiscal capacity of possible debt by the state. Of course, we have to give up everything that isn't necessary, especially at the bar, and also at national level. But the ministers here say you're going to make a special guideline, so you're well aware of the situation at local level. Many local self-government projects have already been in charge or have been in debt, many will be in trouble, they will be able to extend and the moratorium loans will be on loans, however I would not like to, I would like you to define it very precisely and give a very clear framework for the possible possible task of local self-government, and there would be exclusively to prefer a debt to investment, not to know what already. Above all, it must be satisfied to continue to realise European projects, investments. Investments that would generate added value, and simply reduce the expenditure of the state in terms of support and assistance, but the criteria should also be traced if one thing does not happen, which is that local self-governments are practically placed in a position that they will not be able to serve, I will not say pay but those basic functions they have. So it's from kindergartens, from maintaining municipal infrastructure, from those who have education under them, so that part shouldn't be questioned by amounts that would be granted unambiguous loans. You are also aware of the facts, meaning the decision is made by municipal or city councils, but you will have to be a filter and you will have to define certain criteria not only in a transparent way but you will also have to be a mediator in that part of your service. Furthermore, the question, you speak here, and this interests a large number of local self-governments and regionals from northern Croatia, the less developed areas of the Law on the financing of local self-government is so called. It's a fiscal balancing fund. So many local self-governments couldn't achieve average income, so the state compensates from the remaining income tax revenues, how will this relationship now manage to balance, and in this direction, I believe you're thinking, how will the interest-free loans be raised to what amount? Are these basic tax revenues and income tax cuts plus fiscal balancing, which units are receiving, and will it be possible at all to realise from the Finance Act that fiscal balancing fund since it has been accounted for over the past five years? So the purely technical issues that you trust me are extremely important to the entire local self-government, especially in those parts of the mountain-mounted, less developed landscapes or those local self-governments that fall under the category of fiscal balance. In general, I would like to see in that part, of course certain procedures must be implemented, very clear criteria because do not forget another detail that can be taught in this situation by the experience of previous long years when the government or the finance minister, when he approved the credit position, many local self-government simply because it was not the government, the minister was not the filter, they brought their local self-governments into very unfavourable positions, they were practically unable to function. And don't forget one more thing, 2021 is local elections and turn on that one moment, and I think we all understand what we're talking about with regard to the possibility of using credit funds. As counterpart Curaj said, the HNS club of liberal Democrats will support these measures, I believe that we would all like not to need new measures, new state interventions to save jobs, but if necessary, I believe that the government will react promptly and this time despite many criticisms. However, I would also like in this situation, and already the circumstances themselves teach us, less bureaucracy, more realization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195891	Thank you. Let's move on, now it's time for the Live Wall Representatives Club and let's change Croatia, too, two MPs and representatives, first colleague Lovrinović, after which, colleague Sabolek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195892	Thank you. Dear President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected finance ministers, and I especially welcome you citizens who are now following us. Dear citizens, these crises rarely happen. We've seen many, but this one's unique, and it can't be solved in a textbook way. Hence, it is unusual and difficult situations require unusual solutions and innovation. And right here I want to immediately in front of the Party Let's change Croatia to welcome some of the good measures that this government has now taken, it is primarily an increase of minimumers from 3.200,00 to 45.00, a decision or measure to pay VAT for the paid realisation, not invoiced, and we have been looking for it since I've been in the assembly. And I'm asking this government to make this VAT decision that in realized terms of traffic, that's how it's paid because it's 20-30. Entrepreneurs are funding, the Ministry of Finance, the state, which sucks. But you see these measures that I just mentioned two weeks ago I'm here in the form of amendments, dear citizens do you remember, suggested and sorry that the government didn't have hearing then because we lost two precious weeks because people, a lot less would have been fired from the business sector if they knew about these measures. But okay, let's move on, I guess something, some of that and adopt ourselves in the next few days. It wouldn't be good if we had March measures, April measures, May measures. Look, this is a crisis that's specific, I said. This is where you look two or three steps forward, not when the moon comes, and we'll see what happens. That way we won't be able to solve this situation properly. If we don't act 2-3 steps ahead, and there are some measures missing, I'll talk about it, so I want to constructively contribute to that, we're going to gallop into recession. Because otherwise, the recession usually says if two quarters of GDP falls, so we're going to lose GDP so quickly that we can get into recession in a month. So traffic is dropping and company income is dropping. Of course, what's the problem now? The problem is consumption and demand. People are scared, I squeeze in their pocket what's left. So they buy food, medicine, and almost nothing else. If they keep acting like that, here's the way to the recession of whatever they do to me. Well, in that sense, we need to make a few key moves. Here, I suggest here also the finance minister who said the cost of saving the economy would cost about 45 billion kuna. However, we need to explain where the money is to finance these 45 billion kuna expenses. We don't know that. He spoke in an interview with the media about foreign borrowing, with the European Central Bank or the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the IMF even, etc. Dear citizens, I say responsibly none of this is necessary. Nothing, I repeat, is not necessary. Why? We have EUR 19 billion in foreign exchange reserves, it is owned by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We have 150 or 200 billion kuna on our savings, and we have what gold is now worth, it's the central bank, the CNB. In times like this, we see from America, the EU, to Japan, China, so here's Serbia the other day, that bank once in 20, 30 or 50. calls for her to save the situation. Why? Because she's the only one with unlimited money. She can create and produce money for the loan as much as she can? As long as it takes. Therefore, mechanisms are known to do so. Trump put 2,000 a few days ago, 200 billion dollars, their central bank, into the system. So that's how it's done. Because if the central bank, I'm, uh, I haven't heard today except for one sentence, so I care about these governments running away to use the CNB and our kuna. This is the time to use the Kuna people of mine. Well, we need to focus now on domestic transactions, production, so we don't need dollars, Euros, we need kunas. But what's behind this? Well, there's an old habit of creating a 45 billion-dollar debt, that it's taken from business banks, be careful, let's say 0.5-1%, and we're paying interest, and the CNB can be taken at 0%. For the second time today, I am warning this government, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, if they do, I will file criminal charges against them when this crisis is over. Why? Because they directly damaged the Croatian people and this rope they throw at us to save us want to create a hanging noose or an additional increase in public debt, external debt, etc. I've repeated the sources we have. In that sense, I call you again, put the CNB, she and the people, must now show that it is folk, it has not been so far. She has to secure how much money? As long as it takes. The former governor of the European Central Bank when the crisis took place in 2008 asked him what will you do? He said whatever it takes. He opened doors and windows, and if he hadn't done it, who knows what would happen to the EU and their economies today. So, my people, I repeat once again from a few days ago the solution of the Party Let's change Croatia, our economic experts, let the CNB in the next few days use so-called. helicopter money, which means all of the adult citizens of the Republic of Croatia, according to our estimates there are about 2.5 million, which get up to 10,000,00, which received up to 10,000,00 kn net salary, but there are pensioners involved, so all of the adults, that would be 2 times 2,000,00 kn, would total cost 10 billion kuna. It's a grant. A gift. Why? What's the point of that? Well, that's what Americans do, Australians. It must not fall consumption and demand now because if this happens, they start to shoot the link in the chain of economy, and more later it's hard to save, we enter the glib recession. So, I invite you to reason. Do it. Don't let the CNB, who's actually running the CNB today? What kind of price stability? What kind of stability course? The state goes down, my people's economy goes down, and they're smart enough to send us a ball and a government, says save the business, and we'll wait on the side. Dear citizens, if this doesn't come true, listen carefully and hear what is proposed to remember that there are solutions to know that we proposed at the right time, and then in the elections, of course, decide what you're going to do. So, next, open green markets, it's open there, so clean air, open air, people will be much more, less will be able to get infected there than in closed trade chains. Let the little craftsmen go, so there's no rush with them. So people have already learned how to protect themselves, wear masks, gloves, etc., etc. In this context, I'm looking for you and I'm calling for you to stop, Mr. Minister, the VAT on the water. So you understand, within the framework of tourism, people on the island pay 80 kuna one cubic meter of water and there pay VAT 13 kuna. Remove the VAT on the water. Introduce a special tax to banks and telecom operators who only make billions of profits and transfer it abroad, now is the time for them to pay, or contribute and show their solidarity. And let me get this straight. There's a Latin saying that says, "Bis dat, qui cito dat." Twice he gives who gives quickly, the message is clear. Now let's use the CNB, now let's use those billions because after the car gets stuck, God forbid all four wheels in the mud of recession, it'll be bloody, bloody hard. Let's, then, implement measures that the CNB actively finance this crisis, with 0%, pay the helicopter money, and this will be a far, very big help to all of us. And what's especially important. Start big investments because if you don't run big public works and investments, let's do it now. The River-Zagreb railroad. Let it be building in agriculture, refrigerators, droughts, irrigation, so we won't be able to function like that, it's open-air jobs, it's not closed jobs because nobody talked about these big investments today, it's this New Deal, it's got to be because this economy in these conditions, it has elements of state governance, war economy and some markets. Whether it will last another month or more, we don't know that, but we have to implement it now. So, with the best intentions on behalf of the party, I suggest we change Croatia, so that you complete these measures, so that you don't hire us, we have our batteries, we have our own money and as far as foreign currency is concerned, and especially kuna and finally let the CNB be in the service of defence and rescue of the economy and the Croatian people for the first time. Otherwise, if that is not the case, it is long gone and cannot be called either the Croatian or the national or the bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195893	Comrade Sabolek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195894	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens. The living wall supported self-organised entrepreneurs as a party amongst the first ones under the phrase "Sign, not a delay". Now it's visible that the government is facing... to adopt most of the proposals of self-organised entrepreneurs, not of art organizations such as the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The economic theory says, now it's time to spend and primary money emissions. If we want to preserve our economy, this 30 billion aid to the economy is necessary, but we need to know that these measures will not get the desired results, if they will immediately start cutting wages. At a time when states directly donate money to their citizens through so-called. Helicopter money, i.e. colloquial, throwing money out of a helicopter, any reduction in wage mass would mean unusual shortsightedness and would have multiple negative effects. In addition to the aid measures, the salary mass economy must remain the same. It's the only way we can maintain economic activity and ensure a faster recovery. Salary cuts can only be symbolic at the level of the Prime Minister, ministers, parliamentary representatives, board members and supervisory boards, director of institutions, but the total wage mass must remain at the current level because our economic survival depends on it. Moreover, with regrets we can conclude that not all the requirements of self-organised entrepreneurs have been accepted, this is a historic opportunity to deal politically-relevantly and contribute to organisations such as HGK, as well as other parafiscal imposes, which has been missed. It should be noted, what Stigitz explained in a series of his books, which is how austerity measures cannot get out of the crisis and how such measures have always and everywhere failed by breaking and extending the crisis. You saw this best in the differences of approach to the US and Europe crisis when the United States, which spurred consumption from the crisis, came out in just a few years, while Europe, and in particular the Eurozone, using austerity measures from the crisis, came out a lot longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195895	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Milorad Pupovac's turn in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195896	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We're looking at everything that we're going through with the measures taken by the government and that we here with a higher or lower degree of consent, under the impression of what is the most direct, visible danger, which is the coronaryvirus. But seriously, I don't belong among them, they can only call on them, they know that the world's economy would go towards its crisis, perhaps harder than it was in 2008. And no coronaryvirus. And that's why I'm going to say that maybe what's going on with this pandemic here and in the world is an opportunity for awareness, an opportunity for the deepest and most serious awareness, that, before this crisis would happen, before the failure of both banks and financial markets would happen again, action is taken that is necessary to take. So far, in these two steps, the government has taken in the opinion of the club of representatives, and I see most of the club representatives in the assembly, measures that are proportionate to what is necessary to take. We hear very interesting suggestions on what else should be done in this regard. So, we support this set of measures, Mr. Minister, as a club. What we think, and that's where we're going to join other clubs, that's important is speed. The speed of application of these measures. So far, while some colleagues have dramatically dramaticd the rise in unemployment, it is nowhere near what has happened in America in the past two weeks. Of some 150-160 million employees in America, 6.6 million were out of work within 2 weeks with a prospect of increasing to 9 million due to the absence of adequate measures. Therefore, these measures should be continued, they are good in this respect and should be implemented quickly and people working on it in a state apparatus should act spotlessly, should act under complete supervision. Another place that may be weak and which, with such a good measure as 4,000,00 and 5,200,00, together with the settlement of contributions and taxes by the state for workers who will be on a minimum of 4,000,00 is supervision, so that Mr. Ministers do not manipulate employers, not to abuse these measures, not to delay, not to take measures to reduce people's salaries before or as long as these measures are in force. And we know of some cases that have already taken place. So they will take measures, have additional sources, but are already taking measures to reduce their salaries to their employees. It is important to be careful not only that people stay at work but also that employers do not take restrictive measures in terms of reducing the total salaries agreed by collective agreement and using these circumstances as they know how to use them. As far as the subject goes, the subject of the day after which to think about today rather than waiting for that day to come up. The government is also right that a second set of measures that will be discussed on Monday move focus on agriculture. Why? So because this crisis has shown, well, the health crisis, the economic aspect of the crisis, has shown the complete unsustainability of our society, our country when agricultural production is on Wednesdays and the needs of supplying agricultural products under crisis circumstances. And it forces us to commit ourselves to making agricultural production more extensive, to make agricultural production more quality and to make agricultural production, as colleagues and colleagues have pointed out here, and adjusted to make use of all the land that can be used and at the same time to encourage and support not only the issue of the division of the country but also the question of the use of incentives to be placed under absolute supervision. So, we need a state that, as the minister said, we have long not been in this assembly or in the public hearing what the minister said in his post-Prime Minister's statement, important employers are, but it is also important for the state. Why? Because its regulatory role, its stimulating role, the state in these circumstances and in all the following circumstances must remain and must be in this regard. In addition to agriculture, I will say at the end of the great state, a common state which unfortunately fell unfortunately and tragically apart, the Republic of Croatia had a surplus in agriculture of nearly $2 billion. Today, we are struggling to bring her back to life, and it is indeed an opportunity to do so. Other branches where we think it's extremely important to make it are buildings. This is where my colleague Curray talked about it, so I won't be laboring too much. Roads, waterways, the state of our water lines in a series, not only the environment for which the SDSS has special interest, return environments, the environment of special state concerns that are devastated in war circumstances but also in urban environments, in vital urban areas such as Zagreb are in such a condition that it is necessary to invest additional funds. It's an opportunity. Electricity, sewerage, is a particular problem, and this should also be pointed out, because of the depopulation, due to the poor character of the activities of our units of local self-government and county, abandoned drains, abandoned wells, which, when the more abundant rains begin, experience floods that cause huge damage. Now is the opportunity for Mr. Minister to pay attention to this and be some kind of element in our new deal, in our new treaty that the government, which you, which we as representatives are going to initiate, is going to be run by both agriculture and construction and infrastructure. I mentioned the U.S. government, the Democrats and the Republicans are fighting a battle over whether so-called. And building to be accepted, an act to rebuild and invest in infrastructure in the United States, to bring a few more trillions of huge money in order to save and maintain the economy. Major important infrastructure projects are also important for Croatia in this regard, and I would add to that the environment. In what way? Here are some of our colleagues, such as colleagues from Istria, who have been fighting a battle with individual waste dumps for years, who are under control, who are well-run, but who lack additional funds to be fully rehabilitated in special climate conditions of summer months and summer days such as Kastijun. But how many such places are in the vicinity of Rijeka, especially Viskova, how many such wild dumps we haven't managed with either European means or with our own resources. Now's our chance to do it. It is now an opportunity that when it comes to a set of tourism laws, let us pay special attention at a time when the tourist season will not be special, if at all it is to any extent. It will be an advocacy that the state will allow domestic tourists to actually be those who will leave and who will take advantage of the opportunity to keep tourism alive under favourable subsidized circumstances, while at the same time being able to spend a certain amount of time on vacation that they haven't been able to spend in a number of years lately. So these areas also need to be ecologically rehabilitated and activated by people in the tourism sector in the process and on that path of recovery. One more thing I'd say. With regard to the reduction of funds or the cutting of salaries in the public sector, no one is reasonable to do so if the need is imposed, but at the same time if it is to believe the findings of the Institute of Public Finance, the savings it would receive would not be large, but we understand that it is necessary to share the responsibility. And it is certain that even in this House, people will not be opposed to sharing that financial responsibility in this respect. But let us bear in mind that out of the number of people who work in health care, which is 68,000, out of the number of people who work in police jobs and as police officers it's 25,000 we get 93,000 people who, by automaticity with the military, would be excluded from such measures. What's left? 137,000 would remain in the public sector as a whole. So that would almost be halved, those expectations, let's not have any real expectations in this regard. Here someone, a colleague from the Living Wall, spoke of the need to preserve consumption and should be preserved. The public sector was one of the sources of conservation of consumption. The peace was one of the sources of conservation of consumption. I'm not an economist, and when I say things like this, I'm aware of the risk that I don't know all the other parameters that can affect something, but when we make a decision in this regard, we need to be extremely careful that science is also our developmental strength. In what sense is the developmental force? Well, let's see now. If we had an Immunology Service, we'd have our own meds, if we had the Institute in Pliva as we had it, we'd have our own meds. But what did we destroy first? We destroyed it first. Who's mind? Well, not because of our brains, but because of the absence of our brains, but because of someone else's mind that was in favor and still goes in favor. This component applied in the studies should also be kept and developed. But it is not my place to talk too much about it now, what I could only do as a representative and as a member of the Academic Community to say that time, Mr. Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, is that we use the potential of our academic community for what kind of economic social development we want this Croatia to have. We don't just import most of the food in supermarkets, we unfortunately import most of the ideas, most of the thinking, most of how we should behave and what we should do is what others think is good for us. And now it's time for our esteemed colleagues and colleagues to start thinking what's good for us. Therefore, the state should be a key asset, a key instrument in finding it. And I would, if I may say so at the end of this, not a few dozen million kunas will be a great expense to the state if it provides them for several groups of researchers multidisciplinaryly drawn up to explore such potentials and such opportunities in Croatia. Finally, Mr. Minister, something that is pro-domo sua, so things we do as a party together with other representatives of national minorities, mountainous areas, islands and areas where members of national minorities live, especially those that go through three ministries, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy should not only be suspended, but should not be reduced. These people are in need, and at the same time they are able to preserve jobs, work activities in rebuilding the infrastructure in municipalities, in encouraging the OPGs and at the same time in encouraging crafts. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195897	Thank you, too. Let's move on Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash will speak on behalf of the GLASs Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195898	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers and colleagues, we at the GLAS Club are very pleased that these proposals of the government have come to debate and they give hope to many entrepreneurs and craftsmen in Croatia that they will not necessarily have to put the key in the lock because the situation is not quite as irrevocable. We're primarily glad to listen to each other, this is a time when we can't shake hands, we can't hug, we can't sit close to each other, but what we really should be able to do, which is listen to each other more than we normally do. And not only listen but also respect advice and opinions and criticisms, especially if they are numerous and come from different sources. That was the situation, for example. with the issue of taxes and contributions, and we from GLAS as well as most of the opposition, but also economic experts as well as associations of craftsmen and entrepreneurs have warned that without write down the obligation as long as the labour ban or significant fall of activity due to the crown, all other measures do not make sense. We also understand that the measures that will have to be taken are extremely expensive and will mean a great burden on the state budget, possible work, deficits and borrowings, but frankly it is not that we have any choice. 100 thousand people on the stock market and a ruined economy wouldn't cost us anything less than these measures to make this epidemic stop at some point, and then we need to be ready at a low start to relaunch economic activity in full scale. We're able to make up for at least a part of what we're losing right now in this special regime. It is shown once again, and I think that this should be particularly emphasized how important it is for us to be an EU member state. The virus knows no borders, no states, no epidemic we would have had anyway, but if we weren't members, it would be harder for us to get funds from funds that are just forming at Union level to overcome this crown crisis. Following the initial short disagreement and a slightly slow start, the EU is currently seriously working on collecting and sharing money to ease the crisis. The sharing of burdens, solidarity among the members and the assistance of those most affected are the ideas of European unification and the prerequisite for preserving the space of prosperity and progress that we are working hard to build in Europe. It is important that the message is also heard that the results of the programme are seen, and I am sure that they are seen in Croatia and that the entire set of measures proposed by the Government would not be possible without the EU's support. However, we now see that we must be prepared to review the measures that are being introduced and their effects. This is a new situation for all of us, and there are no perfect answers to every question. It's not the subject of today's law, but I'm taking the opportunity to warn the government that some things should be considered. One such thing is the provision that measures cannot be applied to those who have open debts to the state. These are not incentive measures for excellent under normal circumstances, so that an understandable condition is the lack of debt. These are survival measures. Preferably preserving jobs. Well, there seems to be no reason for us to set such high conditions. What's the job, we save the companies, we save the jobs, no one needs to write off the debts, and when the crown passes, they need to be charged. Besides, if these companies fail, we won't be able to pay back our debts anyway. Another condition that seems bad to us from practice in recent weeks is that directors and procurators of companies do not have the right to pay minimum wages. Similar to tax debt, this is not a situation for us to save companies from mismanagement of their management but from disturbed circumstances that they could not possibly influence. There is no reason for those who care for workers who also live on the business of the company and are now without income to deny the right to pay minimum wages. There are a number of family companies in Croatia, for example. both husband and wife lost any income because they are employed in certain positions. Another topic I'd like to warn you about, and I think it's very important. It's about civil society and culture organisations. Restriction of expenditure and use of funds means that all programmes for culture and associations, and even those dealing with social programmes and without which the social care system cannot function, for example. A shelter for women victims of violence to be considered a cost that is not necessary. If so, we must be very careful and not let such a thing happen. I have already warned this very high home last week about the problem of psychosocial assistance for children and young people who have fully stopped in their programs, which can have unspeakable consequences for the most vulnerable members of our society. Likewise, I know that we are not Germany, but in the context of our own possibilities we should consider ways to help culture in the Republic of Croatia. What is certain is that we must not allow programs in culture that are fully and partially implemented not to be paid. The more public institutions are owned by the state and local self-government units, the more they are now among the biggest debtors to independent artists and prominent workers, and now threatens the danger of these debts being confused by the crown. According to the information that's come to us, e.g. HNK Split owes about 3 million kuna to external associates. Our culture is on the ice, and we need to take it more seriously and more seriously. One of the topics to be mentioned and to be highlighted, these are our famous parafiscal imposes. We try to get rid of these parafiscals every time, we have different programs, different projects, and then we boast that we've abolished them or solved them, but we haven't done it. I'm going to mention a few parafiscal duties, and I think you really need to think about it. For example, it is paid to verify the documentation on the reserve of mineral raw materials, paid to confirm the consent and registration of the type of tractor vehicle, paid to carry out the examination procedure and the approval of the forest economic base. After the earthquake in the City of Zagreb we have had and we still have one very interesting display which means when administration and has parafiscal burdens and does not want to adapt to new circumstances. In buildings regardless of whether the damage was from the earthquake or not, in that great fear people often shut down the gas and now that gas should be released because we see that the cold weather and the building was fine and nothing was damaged by the earthquake, Plinara said okay we can let it go, but you have to pay 3.000,00 kn. The question is what else is paid that $3.000,00 for gas release, and then, of course, under the influence of the public, they reduced it a little bit. But let me just tell you a story that will show what parafiscal intrusions even mean and what it means when people are not ready to adapt to new circumstances. One building on Folenegovic's, the gas is closed. The building wasn't the least damaged in this earthquake was it built after '65. and high-quality, no cracks on, on, on, I don't know, paint. In that building, a family gave up an apartment that does not use a family that is unusable to its property, which is frozen there. And they go to Plinar and Plinar says okay, but in order for you to release the gas, you have to have a statistical confirmation that the building is usable. They go to where statistical certificates are issued, statisticians in the City of Zagreb from Sunday, Monday, are no longer working because it was indeed unorganised and the building in Folnegovic still has no gas. So it just shows in the context of the parafiscal burdens that we love to talk about, it shows how it works in nature in one of the circumstances for which no one could have in the wildest dream predicted that at the same time the City of Zagreb would happen and the Coronavirus and then the earthquake. But I would've used these last few minutes. What we need to think about right now, we need to think about the future. We all have to wonder together whether we'll be able to learn some lessons about the future from this crisis. I'm not talking about the simple ones, for example. That we've already mastered, we all wash our hands. I'm talking about lessons about what kind of economy we want. What's important to us is what we need to invest in. This situation has once again shown us how dangerous it is to be overly dependent on imports while their own capacities remain unused. She also showed that it is dangerous to the extent that the Republic of Croatia depends on very sensitive, unpredictable and fragile activities such as tourism. The question is, will we finally get the strength to invest more in research and development in both state and science systems, but also in serious companies in this country. Storage, sales, distribution, tourism, hospitality. These are all important activities, but not enough. The Republic of Croatia is a small country, but this does not mean that we do not have the strength and that, and we should not see those who, through research and development, create strong foundations for a long-term sustainable economy that creates serious added value. We have to wonder if we're finally going to find the strength to get involved, not just to get involved, but to actually implement the green economy. Not only because it is green, I think that the need to preserve the environment at this point does not need to be further explained at all, but the green economy is also a modern economy, one that can take a serious step towards tomorrow, on which we can base long-term stability, quality jobs for highly qualified people and the lasting possibility of exporting our products to the most demanding markets. Will we finally get the strength to support and develop domestic food producers, from small OPGs to the largest companies? This situation has shown us how important it is in our daily lives, but also in our long-term development and stability. The domestic food industry should be developed not because we want to barricade ourselves into our four walls but because it is completely irrational and unreasonable that we do not use our own resources completely and to the last millimeter. This coronary virus, and in the City of Zagreb, the coronaryvirus and the earthquake, should be a lesson for the future. We should be getting ready for the day after, the day after that we want to get there as soon as possible. And let's never forget this situation that no one in their wildest dreams could have predicted it would be, but from this situation we need to learn something else. To learn that the structures of public administration, the structures of the government must have the ability to adapt. The ability to adapt means that you can react immediately to the changes that are, that you can react immediately to the voice of the public, to the voice of reason, to the voice of the profession. So we also experience this set of measures that I called April 1.0. I, sort of, seem to me, to us at the GLAS Club it seems that soon a set of measures should come in April 2.0. We simply must not allow the day after Croatia to be burned. What is important to us and at this point we support this set of measures that the Government provides jobs and we need to ensure that we have great energy, but we need both energy and effort and for some other things that will give us the opportunity to be a developed democratic state, that democracy is extremely important to us and that we don't somehow get through the laws to get through some things that, when we start from this crown, we normally work, which we're going to have a hard time getting rid of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195899	Thank you, too. We're going back to the law package and they're going to talk about a package of laws that's on the agenda of Mr. Hrg in front of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195901	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Prime Minister. When we talk about what the government has done in these months, how we are shaken by this crisis, and even the earthquake, then we can say that she was very awake, that she was reacting spotlessly, that she reacted quickly and that she was making moves that were possible at that time in the frames that we have. The HDS, HSLS and HDSSB club supports all the proposals of these laws, we support absolutely the efforts of people who control the process and all processes of this crisis and we want them to succeed in this way as they do now, of course headed by the Prime Minister as Prime Minister. Turning towards people, towards employees and entrepreneurs, there is no real alternative, and when we talk about the means that are being released and which country is returning, so to its citizens and their entrepreneurs who have paid the same funds and will again be paying after the crisis, then we have to talk about the gross amount since it is not only net 4,000.00 but it is about the contributions that go to it, which is somewhere 5,825.00 kn. Finally, European policy is also focused, according to the latest information, on the preservation of jobs and the rescue of entrepreneurs. What's often mentioned in this time of crisis is what we often return to, and we always go back to these situations to the beginning of everything, we go back to the country, we go back to food production, we go back to the most valuable production without which no one could live without food, there is no life, then I think about it, and I'm thinking here saying something that doesn't make sense to me before, and now it's even less logical to me. So, in times like this, when we do work faster, when we're more efficient in some way, when we're all still as prone as we can to get things done faster, we have to try to find a solution, think about whether the process when VAT is reduced to catering services in restaurants and hotels, is it not possible to introduce that parallel process to condition these same restaurants that they must have at least 60% of Croatian food products on their menu. If you're already giving some relief, then let it end up back in the Republic of Croatia, let it go back to production. I know that we are defined as a state for the capitalist system, we know about freedom of trade, but the same thing needs to be considered, and it is all about what is happening now and the sale of agricultural products and the problem of markets that I believe will also be resolved in the coming days, there will be a solution, whether it is really not possible for the malls to commit, limit, determine that they must have a certain percentage of Croatian products on their shelves. I think this is the time when all these things will come back to the table when every country protects itself in principle its interests, its borders, its citizens, and it will have to start talking more seriously about what's coming to us tomorrow. We today have the situation that the President of the European Commission tells us that the EUR 100 billion money in EU countries is spent on what is most needed, primarily on preserving jobs and economies, of course and on health, it comes first, regardless of the purpose. All right? I think we have to look at it that way, but we also have to watch what's waiting for us when this crisis is over. How do we start the economy? Without public investment with public money, it will be very difficult and it will have to be very careful what projects they are willing to give up in order to move behind it in order to create a new value, so that people can earn their full pay when conditions are created. Maybe this is the time to speed up the process and public procurement procedures. A time when countries are still so closed in their own frameworks, perhaps this is an opportunity for more of our employers to get jobs in public procurement, that they don't have so much competition outside with all due respect and open market and all, but realistically looking like I said this is the time when we look at everyone on our own for the most part. In the end, I believe that the government will also find new measures, that we will continue in this direction, that it will well control the process and I believe that it will be more strategic and long-term thinking and that we will have some directions very quickly, that after the crisis, how to get out, how to go beyond that. In any case, from this pay phone one must constantly speak the same thing, call for the greatest possible commonality, the greatest possible support for those who face this crisis day to day and point out and warn about what is most important, but always to be on behalf of people living in the Republic. With these messages, I repeat, our club will support these bill proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195902	Thank you, too. Now Mr. Marin Schibola will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195903	Thank you. In these challenging times, all political tools should be acted decisively and used to preserve the economy. Before this crisis, the Republic of Croatia had major economic problems. Today we can outwit whether GDP has grown by 1%, 2% or 2.9%, however, the indication that Croatian citizens have been dissatisfied with each step through the event that many young people have sought their future in some other EU Member States. At a meeting held in the Banski Dvori, I advocated facilitating the budgetary disciplines of certain master criteria, and today I have had just one such proposal, so you no longer see so much pre- budget discipline, I think that's good, that's the only way to overcome this crisis. The other EU member states are also on their way, and it is a good thing Croatia is on its way. Why am I saying that? Because this period requires much more state spending. So without greater state spending, it's impossible to service the economy at this point. What has disappointed me is that this solidarity has not been seen, so there is no EU unity, because it is often promoted in public by this community, solidarity, as Member States support each other. However, we see that the EU has also divided. The leaders of 9 member states, including Italy and France, recently requested in a letter to the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, to enable the issue of joint bonds to be financed, to support health systems in the fight against the crown of the virus and to assist economies. However, Germany, the Netherlands, Finland and Austria opposed such a model, so that there is division here and in this economic sense again. There has been a division between the northern Member States and the southern Member States that are more in charge by nature, but also now and on this issue there is a huge division. It is not only about these coronas of bonds there has also been transit, a difficult transit and a difficult number of other passing points. Croatia should now take advantage of its non-euro area member advantage, so it is all a paradigm in the eyes of observers. The prime minister said it was a lack and you see more of the plan, I see it as an advantage that Croatia is not a member of the European zone, the euro zone. For what reason? For this reason, the CNB can now intervene more strongly in the economy in a way that ex niils, i.e. The primary show where the central bank will create money and forward it to citizens and SMEs. That's exactly what Trump did, and that's where some other countries are headed, and I really think we should use monetary tools when we're not already using them during the normal period, so at least in this crisis, let's use the monetary tools that we have. So we have our central bank, we have this privilege, because other euro area Member States have given up this monetary sovereignty and have to ask everyone about the European Commission, they have to consult with the European Central Bank. We have this one privilege that we don't have to. So here's the appeal for Governor Vujčić to go that way and help businesses and the economy in that way. Fear of inflation should not be because money can be put into circulation regulatedly, so there is control over that inflation. Inflation from 2% to 3% is a positive inflation it will not have any negative effects on the economy. Private banks can also create inflation, so private banks can also create inflation through multiple credits and deposits through credit expansion. Therefore, the concern that the central bank will, because it has the possibility of money creation, create inflation is simply a missed argument because private banks always have the opportunity to create inflation through credit increases, credit expansion and credit emissions. I also once asked you which banking institutions Croatia is most obliged to. And unfortunately, I didn't get an answer to that question, and I'm very interested in that. So I'm very interested in what banks Croatia serves. Because we know that the one who gives the money is above the one who takes the money. If we don't know what Croatian believers mean by name and last name that we know which banking institutions are the biggest creditors of foreign public debt. That's what I'm interested in, and you don't want to give me an answer to that question. I want to know who Croatia serves, I want to know who has the greatest influence on our economy. Also, here you have chosen that way of borrowing. I don't think that's a wise way to go. You're talking about who's gonna be in charge of you more, so that's where these international financial institutions are normally always offered. There we have an international monetary fund that is known to always offer assistance in these circumstances, but many countries have negative experience with the international monetary fund because at the moment when money is due, it will give money, but then ask for different other measures from the state to be implemented, and these are often measures, and these are often measures to raise taxes, impose, layoffs in the public sector, deregulation, means maximum deregulation where the state will not play any role. These are the measures that these international financial institutions are looking for, and I think that we should not afford the situation of being valued by these financial institutions more than we are today. The conflict between the public and the real sector has been noticeable lately. That's not good, there's no need for that because both sectors are essential. The state has to help entrepreneurs, which it has done in part, but it must not go to public sector wage cuts because public sector wages are small anyway, we had a lot of nurses' protests before this crisis, means healthcare professionals, police protests, teachers' protests, the government has done something for teachers, and now imagine that they have to re-cut what they've grown. So, funds should be sought elsewhere, the central bank is one of these possible solutions, but I'm not saying that there is no need to reform local self-government, it should certainly be done, however, HDZ and SDP have been avoiding this single reform of local self-government for years, although the profession clearly and unequivocally says it is necessary to do so. And now that you have a situation, for example. Here is the coronaryvirus, listening to the waist, the media is completely focused on what the waist is saying, what's constantly in the public space is just a coronary virus, but when the profession says you need to reform the local self-government, you know that the ministers need to do it, and then the waist doesn't listen, then these particular political interests of the two biggest parties that hitch that kind of thing. So if you're even thinking about cutting in the public sector, don't go that way but reform the local self-government. And finally, there have been a lot of these demagogue, populist measures, and I believe that one measure that is not demagogue and populist is a measure where political parties would participate in this crisis in such a way that 50% of the money coming from the state budget for political parties is invested in another segments that would now contribute to this crisis. So we know that HDZ and SDP are getting millions and millions from the state budget, and now all these huge millions are going to give up one piece and so let small entrepreneurs and medium-sized enterprises help them. When the nurses protested in front of the government, you didn't clap their windows there, Minister. And today, when we see how big the role of these healthcare professionals is, you're clapping from their windows today. And why didn't you go out and say hello when there were thousands of nurses in front of Mark's square? Then you didn't have hearing and understanding, and today, like everybody else, here we go. When we need them, then you from the government get out there, too, clap. So they're not given the problem of support, it's great that people have gathered and they've given them support, but they need to be supported by those healthcare professionals when they need them. When it comes to defending some of their rights. When they need higher wages, they need to be solid with them, not when these healthcare professionals are needed. You need to come up with a model to tax the business banks. To them, the system has so far favored the most, and it seems that they will benefit most from this crisis in the future because many will be forced after this crisis to become in charge of these business banks. They have in one part agreed to some measures, meaning moratories, etc., but this is not enough, so they must also contribute financially to this crisis because in fact Croatia is for them El Dorado. They're pulling billions out of our system, sending billions to their mothers' banks and not serving the economy the way they should. So they're still acting, breaking the law in the Republic of Croatia through the credit show of these Swiss francs, which was, so we have these different illegal ones too, the creditors who paraded in Croatia, should be punished by these banks. So you just have to punish them and get the money out of them, if they've damaged the citizens and they've robbed the people. So there should be no compromise against them, for those who take every opportunity to take the last kuna out of their pockets. They're the ones who have the most and actually have to give society the most, too. It's simply the direction we should be taking because the decomposition of society in the world, means that the wealthier and the poor so much that they can't meet some elemental needs is huge, so this decomposition is huge and I have the impression that after this corporal crisis, the biggest blow on small and medium-sized enterprises, on ordinary workers, and those who have huge capital, which are these large corporations, financial institutions, different speculators, they're going to make money on this crisis, and if they don't make money, they're going to take advantage of this crisis to expand their impact, they're going to take advantage of this crisis to spread and buy what they can buy when the stock prices are falling on the stock markets, so they're going to take advantage of that opportunity they're currently having. The media have a very large role to play and I appeal that no climate of fear is created because in this climate of fear, while people are simply afraid to take all kinds of measures and I have the impression that this fear of people is also being used, and that's why this Law of Electronic Communications has come to us where every man would be followed. Under normal circumstances, there's no way that society would accept it, no citizen would accept it, but I can see that it's pushing, I can see that it's trying. And so I appeal to the media not to create fear, let them report positive news, and let the people not be afraid, let them be careful, let them think critically, and let them not believe everything that is served them because we will ultimately have one tyranny and absolute control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195904	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr Emil Daus who will speak on behalf of the IDS-PGS-RI Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195905	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the Government, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. A tiny virus, as we say down there, changes the world, changes the way people live, their needs, priorities, the economic picture, and things are likely to slowly start changing and the geopolitical map of the world. And it doesn't matter if we are in Spain, whether we are in Italy, in Croatia, whether we are from Zagorje, Dalmatia, Slavonia from Istria, and even less whether we are in HDZ, SDP, IDS or any other party. That virus chooses how he, whom he will, and the health profession still doesn't know the right answer how to stop him. But that's why everything the profession knows is doing very well, and it should be commended once more and thanked to them, thanking the health care workers, the police, the fire department, but also the store workers, the suppliers, and all those who sacrifice themselves these days. A good part of what the government has proposed in this second package of measures should also be welcomed. This is the result of listening, respecting, proposing a profession, economics for those policy options that are responsible and aware of the situation and which have tried to help their proposals. That's why we're glad the government took the measures we talked about two weeks ago. We need to do everything to avoid mass layoffs and we believe these measures are going in that direction. Once again, we note that the IDS in this crisis will act politically responsible and will make its contribution as it has done so far, and not only by supporting these measures, but also by proposing how it makes it even more effective together. We see that the need to help agriculture has been recognised, and we welcome that, but we think that we needed a little more courage and determination. Friends and colleagues with drinking water are food that will lead to wars in the future. Without everything else, it can survive, without water or food. Our country has everything it takes to meet its water and food needs, even more. Now it's time to take that chance. So today, when you still don't know how long this is going to take, your own food production is the key question of how to survive the crisis we're in. The proposed measures are welcome, but they are temporary. It is necessary to be bold and to bring in those long-term ones. This is the moment when sound state decisions are made, and one of them is an urgent, productive and clear agrarian reform that will allow anyone who wants to produce food to have a secure land for this production, that there is a guaranteed purchase of agricultural products that gives safety to the agricultural producer and to help those shops that sell Croatian agricultural products and products from Croatian producers. This addresses the issue of food insurance to our citizens, the issue of employment of domestic labour at moments of unemployment, the production of controlled high-quality natural farmed food on previously uncontaminated surfaces, the operation of hundreds of thousands of hectares of unprocessed and abandoned agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia, both state and private, and the establishment of agricultural production as basic primary production that binds all other activities. If specific measures can be taken for the war against coronary viruses that are not quite acceptable under normal circumstances, if special tax measures can be taken which are not quite acceptable under normal circumstances, if citizens are seriously considered to follow through mobile devices which is unacceptable and in exceptional circumstances, then special measures for the war against unemployment and potential poverty and hunger may be taken. Given what is currently happening in the world, and given the major climate change in recent years and everything that will result, we must create independence for the import of food into the Republic of Croatia. Now we have a great opportunity. We believe that in a situation like this, it is not important for the virus to see an individual's world view, nor should it be important to us now if we want to defeat him and the ever-increasing major economic crisis that will follow. So we appeal to the government to continue listening to everyone and to add what is good and realistic to these measures. We're stronger together, and we want to help. We also expect that once these measures are adopted, we will be ready again and soon respond where necessary because the rapid changes in the rules of the virus must be rapid and state reactions, especially towards the economy and socially sensitive groups of society. From week to week, it will be necessary to adapt to circumstances and to take new measures and finally implement those measures that have been avoided for years such as the abolition of parafiscal duties. One thing we must stress, which is that it is the right time to finally understand what we have been warning for years how vulnerable tourism as an economic sector is and how dependent on a number of external factors that we can't even influence? We have no doubt that our valuable tourist workers will do everything possible to bring the situation back to normal after the end of this pandemic, but at a broader, strategic level as a state, we must finally become aware that tourism has its limitations and potential risks, one of which we are witnessing right now. This must be an incentive for us to seriously consider the future strong strengthening of other sectors of our economy and to share the risks. What's interesting, on the other hand, in this whole ungrateful situation, is that within a few days, you can make applications for issuing passes, e.g. and put into office even though they say today there are a lot of problems, that they are stifled relationships, but, so it can still increase the efficiency and efficiency of the public administration. And this should become a rule for all services in the public sector, not just now in exceptional circumstances, so that we finally end up with these notes, strange working hours of receiving parties on counters, etc. We have no idea how much such approach would help, not just the economy, but society in general. There's one more thing that's interesting, and it's commendable. It will allow entrepreneurs to pay VAT when billing, not after its publication. So you can, and it should actually become a rule when this monster passes and everything is slowly stabilized. So our craftsmen, entrepreneurs don't have to start calling their debtors at the end of the day, but to take over, in a way, the role of payment control because it has an interest to charge VAT and itself. Now, that would help the economy a lot. To welcome it, of course, and other measures, but I think it may be necessary to think about how to help those who have been fired these days in the last 15th, 20th days, to get back to work, whether or not to recognise their employers’ subsidies if they are re-employed, certainly one topic to think about, because especially in tourism and somewhere where there has been a panic, it has happened in the last 15 days that a lot of people have lost their jobs, and perhaps in this way they could save jobs through these measures. It will certainly be necessary to find a solution for many other people who, by your dedicated work so far, have entrusted our society, we have heard on many occasions, like cultural workers. Let us not forget employees in amateur sports clubs, I stress, amateur sports clubs, especially educators who work with children and many others whom we must not now also forget. But first of all, we must not forget those who are now on the first line of defense, and we should even reward them further. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the crises unfortunately have many negative consequences, but they also have something positive. They're one other way. In our case, the chance that after 30 years of wandering, when more, when less, but 30 years of wandering, we finally go in one right direction. If the government remains responsible, continue to listen to the profession in the field of health, but also to more and more professions in the area of economy, economy, if, on the other hand, opposition representatives will make their own quality discussions and suggestions, and the government will respect their real and acceptable proposals, if we are all together in one way, I stress, all together in one way, there is hope for this country and its citizens. Now we really have a big chance, let's not miss it. The IDS Club will, of course, support the proposed measures, noting that we expect even more concrete measures as quickly as possible, especially in the agriculture sector, namely our own domestic food production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195906	Thank you, too. Now, Mr. Branko Bacic will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195907	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I would like to make it clear that we will support these measures that the Government has sent to the Croatian Parliament, both these three laws that come from the financial part and those relating to the tourist part and the law amending the Agricultural Land Act, where certain measures will also be introduced that should respond to the crisis in Croatia under the pandemic in the world and Croatia. We also claim that Croatia, but also the world, is faced with the biggest crisis, according to some after II. svt. war, many say that the biggest crisis since the economic crisis in 1929, and given the number of countries that this crisis has covered, and not only, it has become a threat to the lives of all citizens, but with its impact on the economy, it may be the biggest crisis ever in the history of the world. So as counterpart Daus said earlier, a small virus has changed the way of life in the world, all the achievements of the 21st century are almost forgotten. We return to one life that we thought was behind us long ago, and practically with all the medicine, with all the treatments being made, since we still haven't found how and how to respond to this challenge, we return to therapy, I would say, in the 19th century, without saying that quarantine, isolation was still Dubrovnik Republic on July 27th, 1387, introduced by building infirmarys on the eastern entrance to the city in the area of Ploč. So with everything we've achieved in life and in the history of the world, I'd say it's still not enough that we can respond effectively and in a quick way to this great challenge that this coronary virus has set before us. I said the way of life is changing, all of a sudden those topics that we were concerned with the problem of terrorism, the Middle East, it's practically gone, it's gone from the sight of our interests, we've changed the way of life there's no sport, there's no culture we've simply changed our lives, and so the responsibility today is, first of all, when we talk about Croatia and the government of the Republic to find ways to protect what's most important to us right now, and that's the right to life and the right to health. By the constitution of the Republic of Croatia, when we talk about human rights and freedoms, it's an art. 21. that is fundamental human right, right to life, and art. 69. The constitution says that the right to a healthy life is one of the most important rights. Therefore, it is important that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as a state, put ourselves in line with this challenge. I often hear here from some fellow MPs statements, attitudes that we've been late with measures to combat this disease. And I would remind myself then by knowing everything that has been done in the past time that already on 9 January in the Government's Office, a certain team that will monitor the situation in China, knowing how much the Chinese economy, how much everyone is connected to the Chinese economy and China have already started their first activities, to the extent that we are 24. January introduced special measures at airports and seaports to monitor whether there are indications of the arrival of the corona virus itself in Croatia. Very quickly, a crisis and civilian headquarters was formed, before the health ministry headquarters had already launched a number of measures so it was almost illusory when it was said that the government of the Republic of Croatia was late with measures. And whether we were late with the measures or not, I was preparing for this debate trying to determine some of the information that speaks about the extent to which Croatia had rightly set up an epidemic of the coronary virus. So in that sense, I would like to say that if we take as the reference day of February 25th of this year when the first one was registered in Croatia then there were, for example, 229 and 6 dead in Italy, in France 12 were killed and 1 died, at the level of Europe only 7 died 25. In Germany, 16 patients, in Spain 3, Sweden 1, UK 9, and in the United States, on 25 February. On today, however, the data are probably even worse, but on this day in Croatia we have 1011 patients and 7 dead, in Italy, which had 229, 116,000 and 14,000 died, in France, which had 12 today, and 4,500 died, in Germany today there were 85,000 and 1,177 dead, Spain had that day when Croatia 1 had 3 patients, today there are Spain 113,000 and 10,000 dead, so I'm not talking about UK where 34,000 died and 3,000 died today, or the United States, which is the world's most developed economy that had the world's largest economy that had 53, and today there's a record of 240,000 dead and nearly 6,000 dead. So what do I want to show these? This is what I want to show that Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have committed very quickly to suppressing this pandemic or epidemic any way you want to say that the work of the Staff, through the work of the Government, has produced excellent results from the Ministry of Health. We heard last night when HZJZ Director said that at this point in the world that only Japan, according to its assessment, is better equipped with this crisis than Croatia is, above all, because we decided it was good that in times of crisis, executive power, based on its decisions on the profession, to take charge of the epidemic and the crisis, was a crucial decision. We have therefore rightly decided here in the Croatian Parliament that the activation of art is not necessary at the government level. 17. The Constitution of the If they were forced by a two-thirds majority to make those decisions that restrict human rights and freedoms in Croatia, but are based on the laws that this Parliament has adopted in this or past independent term in accordance with Article. 16 certain laws that are activated in the event of such accidents. So I would like, above all, to highlight the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases and the Civil Protection System Act, and these are two basic documents on which the Minister of Health and the Civil Protection Staff are also very successful in countering the crisis. I wish our friends were from the opposition when they transferred us for which reason and for what reason we didn't activate the decision from the article. 17. If the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia finally told us what the decision should look like, to what extent that decision should be detailed, would we come into a situation where in the Croatian Parliament, we here every decision that means limiting the work of shops, markets, bans on gathering, quarantines, etc. any place in Croatia and any location in Croatia should bring 2/3 of the majority here in the Croatian Parliament. I think it would lead to absurdities on the one hand, and on the other hand it would mean blockade, blockade of even life in Croatia. We are therefore advocates that the laws we are going to bring here in the Croatian Parliament are not a state of emergency but that we are working through the work of the assembly, the work of the president of the state, the government, the judicial authorities, the Constitutional Court, the units of local self-government to prescribe measures, to adopt measures based on the law that I repeat this assembly. We do all of this for reasons we hold that protecting health and protecting lives is the first decision of what we have to do. But today, when we have proved successful in the defence and in the fight against the crown of the virus we enter into another package of measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed to the Croatian Parliament and that March package and I now hold this April package that they have been affected, that they have been created as a continuity in the work of the Government and in monitoring the situation in the Croatian economy. One and the other package of measures, when agreed, is expected to be based on the implementation of these measures within 3 months, of about 9% of GDP in Croatia. So, everything we will prescribe through these measures and what we will intervene towards Croatian employers, first of all, in preserving the job of each employee in the Republic of Croatia, we set out around 9% of GDP. As far as I have information, perhaps later the vice-president and finance minister will say, Austria is the only one among all the countries in Europe that sets out more than the size of its GDP from Croatia. Many countries that are mentioned here as responding well and in quality are not even approximately at the level of detachment per GDP compared to Croatia. Therefore, all these measures that the Prime Minister has explained this morning, and later, I have no need to repeat the Minister of Finance, and when it comes to detachment by an employee of 5,825 kuna, the right of fellow Schucker to say this morning that we are talking about 4,000, 4,000 are going to the employee, but the state is obliged to allocate more than 1,825 kuna for the purpose of paying contributions in Croatia and the release of all taxes and contributions for small entrepreneurs up to 7,5 million kuna or proportional release if the fall of revenue is more than 50 kuna for large entrepreneurs and the payment of taxes, etc., VAT at the charge of these are measures that I think are quite well designed and affected. But what we must, which we must take special care of, is to establish this solidarity in Croatian society. And when it comes to the real sector and the public sector. And if we find that measure then I think, and we are on the best track, and these measures and everything announced that will take place with the unions and the social partners in the next month, I am convinced that as we are successful in suppressing the coronal virus in the fight against the crown of the virus that we will show the same success in the fight for every job and fight for every entrepreneur in Croatia. I also hold this because these measures that are now being implemented in Croatia and that will take effect after the Croatian Parliament adopts them I am confident and I am sure that we will be able to address new challenges with a better starting position once this crisis has stopped. Therefore, what I can say is that I expect clearly that all participants and government and social partners and units of local self-government and regional self-government and they should not be forgotten in this crisis that they will make their full contribution so that we can deal with this crisis as successfully as possible. In this regard, we will support this measure in the HDZ Club of Representatives because we think that they are excellent and the right answer to the crisis that has come and which has affected not only Croatia but the whole world, and in this sense we will probably support these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195908	Thank you, too. Now it's the SDP's Club of Representatives, first Mr Bernardic will speak, and then Mr Lalovac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195909	Good afternoon, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, immediately at the beginning of listening to Mr. Bačić, I must confess that I am shocked. I remained shocked because this information that you said was neither us nor the Croatian public knew. That you're still nine. January had a preparatory meeting in the government and that the first measures were taken at airports and in the Adriatic ports on 24 January. My question is, why didn't Croatia introduce rigorous measures when we only had one patient? And my question is if you knew for three months about the arrival of an outbreak of the coronary virus in Croatia why only today, so at 4:00 p.m. For a month, are we discussing intervention measures to help the Croatian economy? These are questions that you will have to answer, which you will have to answer in the coming days, but I must admit that I am not only shocked but I am expressing great concern about what we have heard here from you in this way. But let's concentrate on that job that's waiting for us. First of all, let me direct one human, large, warm thank you to all our services that work tirelessly to stop the spread of this epidemic that has hit Croatia and the whole world. Thank you to doctors, thank the nurses, thank you to epidemiologists, thank all those who watch day and night and help our citizens and thank everyone who is involved in the fight against the coronary virus and who in these difficult times make life easier for us. The pharmacists, pharmacists, security guards, communal services, cops, firefighters, these are in this situation our true heroes, they give the best and most of themselves in this difficult situation for Croatia. We in the SDP warned a month and a half ago about the consequences this crisis could cause for both the economy and the citizens and after the World Health Organization declared a pandemic after it was confirmed by the decision and the Croatian Government, we came out with a set of more than 15 measures to help citizens and help the economy, on which our experts and our advices worked. Our measures were not then adopted by the government. And Vlad's first package of laws for numerous citizens and entrepreneurs proved insufficient. In the last two weeks, people have been running out of work, without income for their families, entrepreneurs and citizens, but today they still feel great uncertainty and great fear. And precisely because of half of the first government package and because the weather was leaking from day to day, and Croatia simply didn't have time to wait for the SDP Representatives' Club sent last week a package of 10 laws for the rescue of citizens and economies that we hold necessary to discuss at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, this package of laws has not been discussed yet, although we lose 1,000 jobs a day. Our package of laws is an invitation to action, to quick state intervention, to make decisions aimed at saving both the economy and jobs. After two weeks of agony that we could witness in Croatia where several thousand people were out of work, a second package of measures comes to the agenda. In principle, we can estimate that the government has listened to some of those proposals made by the public and entrepreneurs and trade unions and opposition leaders with the SDP, but it has referred them to them with a delay of at least 2 weeks, but better ever than never. The general assessment as well as the first package is like when all the laws that are being discussed today are actually given authority to individual ministers to decide arbitrarily and discreetly, to make decisions about when, who, and how much help that is simply not good. In other words, these laws transfer the council's powers to the government. Today I am not going to talk about those proposals that we have proposed that have been adopted, but I will try to concentrate on those proposals that we consider necessary to install into a set of solutions for citizens and businessmen. First, although the compensation for workers has increased to 4,000 kuna we continue to hold that at this point our proposal for a fee of up to 5,100 kuna would be much more appropriate. Second, after the great public pressure expressed, however, entrepreneurs are allowed to be released, not just a postponement of tax and salary contributions, and a profit tax advance, but we in the SDP must warn that the government has actually deviated from the basic criterion that the measure is applied equally to all entrepreneurs and craftsmen who will have a decline of more than 20%. Instead, the government retains only a postponement of payments for those who will have income up to, a drop in income of up to 50%, and is ready to fully write off taxes and contribute to those who will have a fall in revenue of more than 50%. What I warn of is that it can lead to the deliberate destruction of income by individual economic operators, which can result in reduced liquidity and loss of jobs. Thirdly, although you have respected our proposal that VAT be calculated at a fee i.e. after the realization of the crisis, we believe that this alone will not be enough to ensure liquidity for entrepreneurs. In fact, the economy is facing a complete collapse, there's a great ambience of mistrust, people are desperate, there's no payment among suppliers. Therefore, we call on the Government to lift all the parafiscal burdens, to restore trust in payments by example, to cut state payments towards suppliers for 7 days, and to set up a liquidity fund by which a simplified and rapid procedure would help the private sector in these most difficult times. Fourthly, the SDP expresses great concern that the government has not yet reached an agreement with business banks on the issue of new loans to help the private sector. We believe that funding only on the basis of new HABOR guarantee schemes and HAMAG BICRO simply won't be enough. Fifthly, it is already clear that this crisis will take a particularly long time to recover from the crisis. So we in the SDP consider it necessary to secure a moratorium on loans for a year. Simply to keep entrepreneurs normal with their business, and citizens normally with their lives, without fear and without uncertainty. The sixth, one of the sectors that will certainly be the most affected during this major crisis is the sector that brings us more than 20% of GDP, that is tourism. When it comes to tourism and assistance, the government has unfortunately offered absolutely nothing but petty technical, bureaucratic changes. I remind you that the SDP has also suggested that we insist that we abolish the obligation to pay the flat-rate tax for small tenants. Second, advances for artisan artisan artisans, the elimination of certain parafiscal burdens including the flat rate of tourist tax and the membership fee to the tourist community as long as the crisis with the coronary virus lasts. And again, the SDP will continue to insist on reducing VAT in catering and tourism to 5%. This is especially important today. Seven, we in the SDP must express regret that the government has not complied with our proposals to improve the position of special groups of workers such as the proposal to increase the basis for self-insulation compensation for workers to the amount of the average wage, these people have to live on something. Another proposal to allow one parent’s paid leave to take care of their children who are under 12 years of age during the duration of self - isolation or stay at home. The third increase in the amount of non-taxable payments simply so that employers who want to reward their people who are on the first line of defense from the crown of viruses such as merchants, pharmacists, drivers, logistics workers can simply give them an additional bonus on the salary. We think it's still necessary to do that. I would like to say that the SDP will continue to make a constructive contribution to the fight against the consequences of the crown crisis with the aim of easing the consequences of especially those of the most vulnerable citizens. In the SDP, we believe that due to this situation in Croatia, due to the outbreak of the Croatian Parliament's Coronary, the Croatian Parliament must simply continue to work uninterrupted, which means that we want meetings of the Croatian Parliament to be held in these changed circumstances from Monday to Friday, not just Wednesday to Friday, because the Croatian Parliament is the last line of defence of democracy. The representatives of the Croatian Parliament are chosen by citizens to be represented especially by those citizens most affected by this crisis, the most sensitive groups of society, they are their voice and we must allow them to hear their voice simply in Croatia, to be heard in the Croatian Parliament. And that's why we suggest that the advantage of putting the dots on the agenda has exactly the points that aim to mitigate the health and economic consequences of the coronary epidemic with the virus. We also suggest that the Croatian Parliament be continued next week because of the specific situation in our country or that there should be no rest due to Easter holidays, given the situation in which our country is located. Now I'm calling a colleague of Lalove's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195910	Thank you very much, but let me call him, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195911	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers and colleagues and several technical questions since there is a minister here to try to discuss it with us, or with your team, and answer these questions. We welcome that you moved to 30.6. However, the purely technical issue for all entrepreneurs is that the final calculation will take place, in most of them and most likely the difference in profit tax payments for 2019, so here is the purely technical question in that section whether this payment is also the result of the insolvency problem, whether the same payment for 2019 must be made in this arrangement or whether it will have to be paid. The second thing, is about renting business spaces, related to, especially natural and legal persons who now have in this part of the rent business space and who will have a rent of 0, so these spaces will not work and they will likely work on new rental contracts when the price will be at least 0 kuna simply so that the tax administration does not apply that Article 60. The income tax law, where it always says that the market price of rent should be, since today markets in these business areas, we appeal that at least in this period, while all these business spaces are closed, there is no tax on income or VAT when actually these business facilities do not actually work or business premises do not work. Furthermore, regarding all these measures that have been said here, I think it would be good to consider, over a certain period, all those companies that are going to use these measures to have them, however, are benefiting from the state's incentive to have a ban on profit payments. Because they'll probably get a profit in 2019, '18. and the previous year, however, this is now a liquid problem so that there will be no abuse, if the state gives them some incentives and this part, that there are no abuses on the other hand, so that there can be considered in any way that there is no cash.../incomprehensible/... as regards that part of the ban on payout. Still related to the use of EU funds, I see that yesterday it was announced that, that it would be flexible to use EU funds, I think that it is good, I don't know how much longer we are probably somewhere up to a billion euros if we were left to take advantage of the full envelope for 2011 to 2021, so this could only explain whether these funds, I see, are quite flexible in this way using these funds because these funds are important to withdraw and because of the reduced pressure on the course, I apologize. Furthermore, regarding the ERM II approach, I also see that this morning, the prime minister said it is a good measure that Croatia and even more strongly goes towards the exchange rate mechanism, although perhaps we are not meeting these conditions now and will find it difficult to meet the exchange rate mechanism II in the future, but it is important that it accepts us there that we can use the EU's access to the market and access to euro bonds, which will certainly ensure a certain foreign liquidity. I think it is not only an economic and political decision, and I think it would also be the European Commission to approach Croatia if we have already applied for the ERM II mechanism to allow us to access the market as soon as possible. It's certainly a few more questions, it's about the write-offs of these parts that won't be paid by the state, so the state pays contributions to those 4,000 kunas, but my question for all those write-offs that are going to contribute to what's going to happen to these people because we know when there's a pension write-off that one day, that these people wouldn't, in fact, be at risk for their pensions, that we might be thinking anyway, and that if there were any write-offs of that pension to actually be his, that it would count on him, too, that the write-off that was to be used for him when calculating his pension. Here, I thank you for these are certain technical questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195912	Thank you, too. There will now be views on this package of laws of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, which is a violation of the Rules of Procedure forgive me. Mr. Bacic, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195913	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure because a colleague insinuates that I am not telling the truth when I set the date when the Government of the Republic of Croatia began measures to prevent the fight against the coronary virus. Well, I am, on the other hand, amazed at the information that the president of the main opposition party is not aware that on January 24, the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure has made a decision towards which all airports and seaports are being raised to a high level to prevent the possible entry of the sick. and infected with the coronary virus in Croatia. [[Intruder: Time.]] And it was the first, first decision of the government of the Republic of Croatia to meet all citizens It is not clear to me that it is not the president of the main opposition party, Mr Bernardic. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195914	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Mr Bernardic also injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195915	The Honorable Vice President was also injured in Article 238, so I was shocked by Mr Bačić's statement that the first meetings in the government were held on 9 January, if the first meetings were held in the government on 9 January, my question was why it was waiting 3 months, first why it was waiting to take rigorous measures, and secondly why it was waiting to adopt these measures for entrepreneurs. Something stinks in there. You'll have to answer that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195916	Thank you very much. Okay, we didn't mention the articles, you said what you thought about each other and we're moving on. Now they will speak the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, the first to speak Mr. Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195917	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues allow me to state the position of the Association of Assembly Representatives of the HSS and Democrats on this proposal for measures by the ruling majority, respectively, of the HDZ. First of all, I would say that Mr Bernardić is absolutely right and has not received an answer to the question, so I will now give it to him, which is why nothing has been done, or why this measure is late. So as much as we can say hello and we must welcome these measures, the fact that they are late, especially late for those who have lost their jobs in the last two weeks. And why are they late even though it was possible to assume what was going to happen, Mr Bernardiæ is late because of the internal elections in HDZ, so the whole of Croatia knows, because of their choices, that the other people have been in the past two weeks because of the job and I propose to Mr Marić, who I follow all the time, who doesn't listen at all to what I'm saying, or what my predecessors have said, but the whole time on the line, to improve these measures and to support both the HSS and the opposition and everyone, but do something for the people for whom these measures have been delayed, these are people who have lost their jobs in the past two weeks. Here, so this is the first predisposition in principle to happen what the Prime Minister said in the morning, let's say some kind of unity that we all get together and I think that people would welcome it, that it would be in some way respect for the contributions of the opposition parties to this package of measures. What I would like to talk about, and what my colleague Miranda Mrsic will continue after me in the second part is that this crisis, that every crisis is an opportunity for a new start, and this crisis is an opportunity for a new start of the Croatian food industry, or Croatian food production. Especially since if it continues like this, we are all aware, we have continued this terrible situation for a few more months to come into the problems of the existence of society, not only the functioning of society as we have been used to in the last many decades, so what we remember, but also the existential problem of the survival of society, or the problem that we are not or we do not want to be aware of, and that is the problem of the diet of the population. Croatia is one of the few countries in the world that has enough natural predisposition to be able to feed under quotes themselves, or produce food far more than is necessary for the existing population of our country. However, measures for farmers, measures that should be aimed at ensuring the diet of the population not only these but also in the coming years, cannot be measures that will be taken through the month, two or three but immediately, now is the time of seed, now it is time to take measures to ensure that the state is doing its best not only to help farmers how much they need to sow, plant, whether there is a strategy to buy out the full production of Croatian farmers and thus ensure not only their survival, not just the diet of the population in months and years to come, which would not be dependent on food imports, because we do not know what will happen on markets or in countries from which we are now importing a good part of Croatian food needs. What if, if these countries decide to close the border and there will be no imports, then they should think about it and then the situation is an opportunity for a new beginning of Croatia, I repeat Croatian agriculture, Croatian processing or agricultural food industry, an opportunity for the recovery of Croatian villages, an opportunity for the return of people, a part of people to work in the primary sector, which is the opportunity for Croatia to stabilise, reset and in some way cancel out the last 30 years when unfortunately the Croatian government has favoured foreign importers, import lobbys, mega-trafficks and has ruined Croatian peasants, Croatian farmers and small food producers. I must commend that it is going to an intervention buy-in of milk, but this measure comes not too late as regards this crisis, but too late as it is 5 years too late as regards Croatian dairy. So we forgot that Croatian dairy was destroyed, that such a measure should have come 3 or 4 years ago in order to save the remains of the Croatian dairy industry, but what it is now is a good sign that Croatia can take care of its dairy industry, but I repeat, I should, in principle, appeal to the ruling to consider that with the following set of measures it is not to wait but to adopt and propose opposition parties, HSS proposals, Democrats proposals, SDP proposals and other parties among which there are very, very good, very good and constructive proposals, I have looked at all of the proposals of the parties I'm talking about, so that all of this is understood to go towards one, once soon, to move towards a new set of measures because it is important from today's news as it is, we have no way to see it yet. The situation is such that people have started to relax in the last few days, which I have the opportunity to see firsthand, that discipline has fallen slightly with the coming of a better time, and I fear that because of this lack of discipline, the situation in Croatia is not escalating until the end. There's something else I'd like to say about tourism, so we can cross tourism for this year. You don't need anything, you don't have to doubt at all that the tourist season will be crossed. Here when I talk about tourism workers about the tourism sector that will suffer this year not huge losses but will de facto remain on the zero question of how many domestic guests will be able to save the situation, foreign guests will not be because of us, but because of the general situation outside, and that foreign guests should come at this time probably go into quarantine. Therefore, it is necessary to help the tourism sector, tourism workers in every way possible and not to forget a whole series of secondary parts of the tourism sector, where they also include food producers, but where they include, for example, tourist guides that have been completely expelled, or that you have neglected, and with whom you are going towards de facto destruction, and one whole branch, let us call it, for example, employees closely related to tourism, which is certainly to be killed, or which we can already say that they have been killed this year. And now that I have invited Mr. Miranda Mrsic to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195918	Yes, thank you very much for helping me. Mr. Mrsic, you may proceed. That all of this, it goes on self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195919	Dear Mr. Vice President, life after the crown will not be the same, and what we miss out on today will have serious consequences in the near future. The measures we are discussing these two days are, in fact, measures to measure employers, but not to measure workers, and as the health epidemic of the coronary virus is an epidemic that is extremely dangerous in the economy as well, that epidemic cuts everyone around it. The epidemic has phase four, in phase one, you have no symptoms, and in phase two you have a fever and cough, you're in phase three you're on oxygen because you have pneumonia, you're on the respirator. Our economy is in phase three right now, and those who are locked up because of the social distance being made are actually on the respirator. But I'm afraid those who are now in phase three when they can no longer produce because there is no demand, because there is no raw material will also be in phase four. The government has gone too mildly with measures not realizing that it should be parallelly as aggressive in health to go to an epidemic, too, it was necessary to move aggressively in the economy. It was very late, it seems to me that Prime Minister Plenkovic acted like Trump to close his eyes, so the problem will go by itself. We are at war, and in war we need to make a very clear and very fast decision, in the war there is no decision in two steps so I am sorry that these measures that we have today were not before, two weeks ago and what is also seen in the government that in the government there is no person with sufficient authority, authority and power to make decisions and that is exactly what has been shown in these laws. Our mission from the opposition is to point to problems and offer some new, new things because maybe we see something different from what the government sees. It's a good thing we gave the workers 4,000 kuna, but as I said, this government is more on the hands of employers than workers, it would be smarter, more efficient and better if we gave these 4,000 kunas directly to workers on their current accounts, not employers. And while the government addressed the issue of subsidising salaries to workers, it did not resolve their working-law status while they were at home. Instead of sending workers to wait, employers are taking their annual vacations and therefore not all workers in Croatia are in the same position, primarily the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, or Minister Aladrovic, is responsible. As planned, the State should write off taxes and contributions, for these 4,000 should pay itself, but it should also consider that for those large companies to which we will write off taxes, contributions and all that is now in these measures, it is considered that for these funds, the Government or the State should not enter into co-ownership or property in large and larger ones. When the crisis is over then those shares can be sold and then the state returns what it has invested. On Monday, we will discuss agriculture, and today we should decide that the stock reserves take over and buy all surpluses without fences because that way we should be able and should save the agricultural production itself. If this crisis doesn't get us to review the defense list now, I don't know what it's going to do. This government has taken over, and I warn several billion kuna commitments to the HVO, and all these vote purchases are now coming up at the worst of times, such a wounded economy will now pay the HDZ election victory. Naturally, we also need budget rebalancing, there is Minister Maric, but not rebalancing because of the rebalancing but to face the crisis and that it is very clear that we have to pump money into the economy because it is oxygen and the blood of the economic life of Croatia. Our public debt will increase, so what, if we kill spending, it'll take us years to recover. Politics should be spent instead of saving for key activities during an epidemic such as health care, police, civil protection and other key services. Through collective bargaining, extras of 50 to 100% should be agreed on in terms of higher burdens and salary supplements compared to the basis during the duration of the epidemic. Workers who, during an epidemic of the situation, cannot go to work should have the same status and rights as those who have lost their jobs and receive compensation. In order to strengthen the liquidity of state-owned enterprises, the specific fund needs to buy out claims that banks have towards businesses. You should consider giving pensioners the lowest income to supplement during the coronary crisis with the virus. These are all things that the government should do to get us through this crisis as best we can. I think this is the time when we need to include talks with trade unions and employers and with the government on key issues because any measure that does not have the support of all three parties, and such a measure will not be able to gain its effect. At this point, we need a social agreement, community and partnership, which is the key to a successful fight against the threat that has hit us all together and that is why all segments of society must equally bear part of the burden and must not be privileged and privileged. I expect that the government will quickly submit proposals for new laws that will address Croatia's key structural problems and therefore should not be delayed. The government must now and now lay sound foundations for our future. We live in a time in which there must be no excess, left behind, and hungry. We need Croatia with a human character and in the end before the crisis we have heard from a large number of employers and some economic experts that the state has nothing to do with business, that state interventions are not good, that the market will solve everything. One question to all of us, why are you now turning your head towards that motherland and asking for help, why have you suddenly lost faith in the market? These are some things that are very clear that our lives will be different after the crown.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195920	Thank you. It is now up to the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGE and Independent Representatives and New Politics, and first Mr. Hrelja will perform, and then I will announce Mr. Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195921	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, so first of all, I would like to express my sympathy with all those who are imprisoned and understanding to all those who are imprisoned in their homes and who follow these instructions from headquarters and congratulate them on contributing to public health, the security that this monster is not spreading to possibly spread that all of this is gone. Secondly, although these are difficult topics, I must say one thing that I can express one satisfaction that after 17 years of political struggle and the appearance of HSU that Croatian pensioners must be protected because their rights stem from a decade of payment of contributions, I must also congratulate Minister Maric, and also Mr Plenkovic that they finally understood because this was not the case with previous governments and those in 2009, that they realized that they should not be touched by those rights of pensioners based on contributions and that they were in fact the most vulnerable group because 483,000 citizens of the Republic live with monthly incomes of less than 2,500 kuna. Let's add another 150,000 to 3,500 kuna, and these are the ones that will certainly generate consumption because they have no savings, no supplies of food and household supplies, they couldn't, in some years and they couldn't go from shop to store to collect supplies and food and household supplies. Therefore, they will regularly spend everything on payment of services, bills and food, hygiene supplies and medicines and, therefore, 1/4 of that money paid monthly to pensioners of 3.5 thousand, 3.5 billion kuna 1/4 will surely return to Minister Maric or Deputy Prime Minister again in the budget. So these people and that giving will certainly not be problematic and will keep the gross social product at a certain level. It could have been better, and now my predecessor has been talking about the need to think about some retirement supplements and I agree in principle, but the government of the Republic of Croatia has missed one big thing over the past three years. She has adopted a strategy against poverty, but there is no "s" from that strategy, so there is no fight against poverty, no goals set, no action plans, nothing. In the past 3 years, the government of the Republic of Croatia has been able to change the rates for the poorest, whether it is supplemental health insurance, whether it is a rv subscription and many other social assistance could have been determined precisely in the fight against poverty, but it is not and now there is no more room for manoeuvre and it is a great pity for the social security of a large number of our citizens. So, and here, now that we're talking, of course, that we understand that the issue of the state budget is a closed circle, of course we don't expect the state to pay contributions to these 4,000 kunas, she's going to book that it's paid, there's no cash money, I don't pay myself in the same pocket, you can't pay in the budget, but you're going to realize that the workers who are left with the employers and who got the support of this country that they've recognised the payments of the contributions, the state just has to pay physically 5% on individual savings, so in the II pension column. Therefore, to clarify these things that the contributions are not at this point a burden but a recognition of the state that they are, that they are paid. I think that one measure came too late, that this measure that we are now bringing, and that is 4,000 support and this payment of contributions or recognition of contributions by the state should be the first measure to come and say in the last package, should have been said to everyone, to all entrepreneurs, to all those who hire, you will get this measure to keep people in the workplace somewhere because, and they have started mass layoffs. So, all fired workers don't run their internship, they cost the state again, and it would be better if they stayed employed, if they were being interned because they weren't guilty of this disease coming. So that measure should have been the first. But let's not think this is all over. Oh, God, let's get out of here. In a month and a half, stop all of this from going down in 20 or a month. And God forbid it's all going in the right direction. However, the same should not be the pessimist, nor should it be disastrous. This country has had far more opportunities to get out of this situation compared to the 2008 crisis than it had at the time, and then this whole procedure lasted very, very long. We need to start talking about something that's just hinted and the prime minister just hinted. It's a matter of solidarity. What is the issue of solidarity in the Republic of Croatia? Is giving it to someone because it makes me feel like someone should be given or it's a solidarity system. You know that some members of the board of Croatian Railways get to become members of the administration 3 months before retirement and receive 42,000 kuna. Croatian railways don't drive, will they get it all the time? You know that the profits of the manager of pharmaceutical companies are huge, that the profits of the bank manager are huge, we are focused so they tell us you have good salaries etc., bigger salaries than the representatives have and the mayors of municipalities that are much closer to our citizens. The system of solidarity means that those who have more must separate one part, must separate in order to survive this pandemic of the coronary virus together. How? It's done with special laws and it's done until we get out of this situation. I think that's what's expected if this lasts. No one has the right in this country, regardless of whether in private, social or any ownership, to receive 5,000 EUR and not to participate in solidarity with those who have lost their jobs that we will pay compensation at the employment office, and those in Croatia have a lot. And that must add up all the revenue. So I think we should go through this Easter and after this, after Easter, we'll face our thoughts and find the best model of solidarity that we have sources of funding for people who have lost their jobs, who won't be offered this whole time a new job because we all have to get out of this situation and institutions and all citizens including pensioners and our youngest, we'll all have to get out of this scratched, wounded, but we all have to survive. It's the mission of the state as the roof of all citizens of this republic. I'd like you to remember that part, and in the end, I'd just like to tell you a technical detail. We've noticed that there's a difference between the law on this accounting and the general tax law on what's been published on the government's pages and what's been published on the council's pages and what we have here, technically, is physically here, so we've offered you, and we've offered you amendments to one of those two laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195922	Thank you, too. Mr. Aleksic will continue the course of club thought and go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195923	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers Maric, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the SNAGA Party has proposed 16 important measures, anti-crisis measures at this difficult time for the whole world as well as for the Republic of Croatia. Of these 16 measures, almost nothing has been accepted, and I will present here six of the most important measures, in my opinion, the most important measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would have to take and which the Government of the Republic of Croatia may even accept in the next period because there will be no others. So we thus suggested that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would definitely propose a mandatory moratorium on the payment of loans without payment of interest. The government has promised to be a moratorium, however, the government did not propose this in the form of regulations, but rather, it has negotiated it with the banks and left it to the banks for mercy and impassion to determine the conditions for moratories. According to my knowledge, the bank is proposing moratories, offering moratories with interest payments. At this difficult moment when almost no one can make money, when people will lose their jobs, when they will go into a major crisis, not even banks can be allowed to make money on interest, and above all, because banks just owe citizens 20 billion kuna. The banks robbed 125,000 debtors with the currency clause franc and another 200,000 debtors with the euro and kuna currency clause, one for exchange rate and interest, and the other only for interest totalling 20 billion kuna. Such banks must be ordered by law by a moratorium, a mandatory moratorium on all loans for those citizens and for those companies that are not liquid without any charge. And that's why SDP and I personally proposed a special law on the basis of which we would now approve moratorium for non-legival citizens and non-legival businesses. The second thing we suggested was a temporary ban on all matters. There's no execution while this crisis is going on. The government said there will be no execution, but it did not propose any regulation but again something to talk to the believers, no enforcement, no goodbyes. It's hard to ban the performance, temporarily unblock all accounts of blocked citizens while the crisis is going on, when the crisis goes through, we go back to the past, but the crisis takes a deblocking of all accounts. The next thing, the reduction pays everyone evenly not even evenly but roughly equal to the same amount, and not to those who have little but to those who have a lot, starting from me and the like, to cut our salaries, if 50% should be, if necessary and for more, to set some limit below which the salary should not be, for example. Let it be an average income for those who have higher incomes, and those who have lower incomes if they have an average and less than average do not reduce anything, very simple. It may not have any major consequences on the budget itself, but it will show an example of our compassion for our citizens. Next thing you know, you're banning the layoff of workers, but not unconditionally, but only allowing workers to be fired on business terms and conditions. What does business-conditional termination mean? It is fired when we guarantee the worker that we will take him back to work when the crisis is over because, of course, there are companies that simply won't be liquid, he won't be able to pay the workers, it is understandable that such a worker must be fired temporarily, but let that resignation then be a business conditioned resignation and, in that case, such a worker must get his job back when the crisis is over. What I don't like about government measures is, first of all, that they come down to the pressure on the budget. The pressure on the budget means that we will be in debt in the future, which means that our public debt will go towards 100% of GDP, that's not good. These measures proposed by the SNAGA party are not only going to the budget but also going to those who owe Croatian citizens such as banks. I repeat, banks owe Croatian citizens 20 billion kuna, but they may even be liable to businesses, they may even be in debt to the state because the banks charged fees for their loans, and these fees are illegal. I hope and believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will simply have to accept most of the measures proposed by the SNAGA party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195924	Thank you, too. Now it is up to the gentleman, the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, who will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195925	Today mankind is in a surreal, I would say in an unrealistic situation if anyone had spoken to us a few months ago about what situation we'd be in, I wouldn't have trusted him first, I wouldn't have trusted him. So we have one crisis that is never greater, the biggest crisis in mankind's recent history, world statesmen say even bigger than the economic crisis that was caused by World War II itself. And it's bigger because most countries, I would dare say almost all the countries of the world are affected by this one global health and economic crisis. And if we try to objectively analyze what it's all about and forget everything that's being served every day from the mainstream media from those major media that are obviously under the influence of the state, we have to get a little bit surprised and ask ourselves a lot of questions that I'm here at, and I wouldn't actually give an answer, but I'm going to ask questions. The crisis began more than three months ago in China, China was blocked for several months. So it's not about a countryman like perhaps our country's only 4 million inhabitants, but it's about a country that has a billion and 400 million inhabitants. And this huge country was the most human in the world in quarantine for months, people didn't leave their homes, they didn't go to work, the state stopped working and nobody else in the rest of the world, and it wasn't suspicious in our Croatia either. These are our statesmen and our government to understand each other, look and do nothing. 29 or 28.01. Andrej Plenkovic, when replacing Minister Kujundzic, said for the first time we have an important health crisis, and we must replace Minister Kujundzic because we must prepare for the attack or crisis caused by the virus. It may have been the first time that he announced, from then to the HDZ elections after a month and a half, he didn't lift a finger. Because he didn't move because he didn't know or didn't want to, I don't know, but that's the question? The second question is why all the other world governments, why the Italians, the Spanish, the French ultimately did not take adequate measures when they saw what was happening in China, why? Didn't these intelligence agencies, secret agencies, give this information that I'm talking to my governments right now? And even I am one representative in a small country like Croatia warned the Croatian government of danger on February 5th, and all these numerous agencies did not warn their governments of the coming crisis. Now it's either totally incompetent or they didn't want to warn. You figure it out yourself, but the question is very interesting. The number of patients is growing unfortunately, today we crossed over and we cut a million, the number of deaths is growing here we are close to 60,000 dead and that number is still growing. I will nevertheless conclude here that most of these dead people have been chronically ill before, and that is the fact that there are very few healthy people, young people who have died because of this disease. So a strange scenario is surreal, unrealistic and I wonder if maybe this crisis is welcome for some sectors. I'm going to name one sector, and it's called the banking sector. Banks have been struggling for years to place their money, a lot of money, cheap money they even gave without interest. Suddenly, all the countries of the world and our Croatia are flocking to banks on the international market, wherever they are looking for money to save their national economies. An interesting coincidence, however, to know that one of this crisis is benefiting because all countries of the world are in considerable economic debt at the moment. From who? Banks. And the other fact is that banks had a big problem with the placement of their funds, that they had lots of money, billions and billions of dollars or euros that they couldn't place. And now Croatia has suddenly sobered up, the HDZ elections have ended, the old HDZ president is the new HDZ president, which is Andrej Plenkovic, he has swept up competition and is free to deal with the crown crisis. Suddenly such a wise, and in fact, politically invents a new body, some new faces, there is a new minister of beauty, a child face Mr. Beros and a little older Mr. Bozinović earthquake and then mostly moves in the process with the crown crisis. And suddenly we have a new body that has absolute powers, this body of the Croatian Parliament has given it the opportunity to do whatever he wants. And on all the media we have one real agitprop, yesterday in "Open" three men, three politicians from the ruling party, zero from the opposition. Look at any news from HRT that won't convey my speech or any other national television, you won't be able to see or in some side frames you'll see opposition and people who are critical of the government's measures towards this crisis. And the mouth will be full of journalists, programme leaders, to praise the Croatian government's measures. The funniest thing was to watch the "Open" show yesterday, where even the children of glory eventually celebrate the excellent conduct of the Civil Headquarters and even draw them as Supermans and Batmans. Do we have any objectivity? Well, I don't think we do. I've asked a lot of questions and here's every citizen to question what's really going on with this crisis, but I think that time is going to show or maybe someone's getting really well prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195926	Thank you very much, Mr. Zekanovic. I was in Zagreb during the earthquake and I assure you that the country was shaking. Here you go, sir. Wait a minute. There's only Hrvoje Zekanovic. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It doesn't say. Okay, come on, we'll be tolerated, when the situation is extraordinary, it needs to be tolerated. But nobody said you know otherwise it would say... No, they're very valuable associates here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, sir... The loudspeaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195927	Thank you like... thank you very much. Thank you. [[Intruder Radin: See how tolerated I am.]] Here I am today being lined up by heads today, experts in general practice, economists, experts in all kinds of heads, populists, I don't know, but I'd just say about this virus, we should respect neutral sources, no one knows how long this will take, no one knows, no Baba Wang, there's no Brothers to treat us look, no one invited him somewhere like some other head like these NGOs. So you have experts you have a model dynamics of spreading this disease and we see that progress every day. You have the University of South Korea they are already familiar with SARS, MERS etc. And he needs them, it's a neutral source to listen to them, and I think they're on the right track for neutral sources. Of course, we can't separate politics from the economy today from the coronary virus. Economic measures, there is Mr. Maric our... here for the economy, but I think that the first step must be every economic measure that we are talking about solidarity as Mr. Hrelja said, that we are taking care of the most sensitive group of people here, these are disabled, old heads, etc. It's the right hand, not the red right hand that first secured the money for three generations and they can tell us whatever they want, but we still don't have the origin of the property or the names of the heads that have the bank accounts outside, and we know that maybe they were all in the party. Economic measures and what to invest in right now, a lot of heads have already talked about what to invest in here. The critical infrastructure, the fire-season is coming, the water, that's what one head said before me that's been repeated ten times today, we're losing 48% of the water through going out. Soon you will see war that God does not give Sudan-Egypt water, if example 1 changes the course of the Nile what will be, 1% of the water is drinking water it must ensure and of course what Mr. Bulj repeated ten times food is a strategic resistor and all other heads. I agree with the heads although this peasant head HSS is more I'd say like some kind of South American Marxist group, not related to HSS, but of course food and there I agree with them and I'd like to see their origins. Of course after all this, this is going to go away, there have been worse times, we know that the global market has fallen 20% in the last two months. This is going to be worse, so I'm not going to be Grandma Wang here right now, but it's already visible that these car supply chains have been lifted since three months behind the delivery and China is the main supplier for some parts of the cell phone, and I think this is going to be worse than in 2008 a breakdown, an economic breakdown. And now it's time not only for economic security but it's time now the crisis is the best incentive, crisis and fear for real structural reforms, which no government has ever done. The grey economy is twice what it was in the EU and we know that there are many Croats on the issue of creative accounting they are masters on this issue. And the implementation of this plan, I think Mr. Maric will be very important on the ground, which someone said that some heads don't get on the train as they've been boarding there since 90 and some years. How is it possible in one country that a crawd like a small example of spending state money could spend $170,000 on a national team without answering anyone? So is the grey economy and now the professionalization of the administration and now it's time for all these institutions to work in synchronization, to see that money comes where it should come from. I'm about to cut wages here, but I'll also mention that the parties have a huge portion of the funds in their bank accounts, millions of kunas, and that should be used. Maybe you should give it up, not think about the election, that's what I said before. Millions of kunas are there, you can hunt anywhere that's critical, we know what the priority is. And you know Mr. Jovanovic what the priority is. And in the end, I'd say, someone here today is a member I think the CNS was talking about Hungary that Hungary was the first victim of the coronary virus. Let's talk about the data. Hungary is, according to all economic data, 6 places above the Republic of Croatia, GDP per head is bigger... Don't talk about democracy. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Speaking of democracy here, let me remind you of your former internships, today I passed when we talk about isolation I passed on to Kresimir Square there a political prisoners' association I saw a man for 12 years who'd been peeling in Leprechaun for your rat-head for 12 years and there he only ate chicken buttocks for 12 years, he didn't see a letter or package. And you enjoyed the party, today you're fine, you've created a second generation of emigrants. And I would send you all an auditor chief inspector of the Field Marshals I don't know what his property condition is this grouppenfuhrer's new head there, it's the only man, for the inspector the only man from... who was in the party, imagine. You're all networked, I don't trust you. I believe in God and mathematics, I would have solved everything in three months, I'd have you first, I'd have come to your door first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195928	Thank you very much, you've made yourself clear. Ms. Maria Puh will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195929	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Deputy Prime Minister. Here we are again today discussing a second package of measures to help our entrepreneurs and owners. In fact, this situation we found ourselves in, I would say none of us when we were making the budget last year had any idea that something like this might happen, and it really happened to us almost overnight. I believe that the state is sending its own measures a clear message to monitor the situation and welcomes it as ready as possible. Those first measures that were taken and which were, were going towards maintaining health, towards prevention, towards protecting our most endangered citizens. Although even then, when these measures were adopted, there were considerable objections and objections to the work of headquarters, today with a break from, I think, for about a month, it is evident that the measures that were then prescribed and which were adopted were well thought out and that they brought the result because, as we can see from all the tables of the Republic of Croatia is in the society of those countries that are most successful against this pandemic that has hit us, which unfortunately knows neither the borders, nor the nations, nor the race, nor the sex. After the concerns and the first measures adopted were aimed at maintaining health, of course it began to think and to find measures to get into this extraordinary situation and our economy and our entrepreneurs as easily as possible through this strange period. In the morning, the Prime Minister presented to us a second set of measures aimed at easing the economic consequences that are yet to be met. What's the direction that goes with these measures, I've been listening a little bit to these last few days since the measures have been presented, and when I see the consensus that exists here amongst us parliamentary deputies and the consent that is obtained by entrepreneurs, I would say that the direction that goes well, that it's thoughtful, of course there's always opportunities for them to be even better, but as I've already said, this sudden situation, I think we've prepared quite well for it. Payment of minimum wages and payment of contributions for workers whose companies cannot work now, I think it is the most valuable measure and will have the best effect in preserving, in maximum preservation of the number of jobs and in some ways provide safety for all our workers. Instead of the original 3.250,00 kn, payment of £4,000,00 by the state and with paid contributions for that amount, totalling €5.460,00 per employee. The activation of this measure, as far as I could see, has already been requested by nearly 70,000 entrepreneurs, and this applies to the boredom of 420,000 workers according to the estimates that have been made, the figure to which this coverage will be around 6,000 workers. The discharge of non-working or job-threatening entrepreneurs is also significantly affected by this pandemic by the release from tax duties and the introduction of the obligation to pay VAT only at the expense of the invoices issued. And I think that this measure will help keep our economies and our entrepreneurs alive and help them during this period that is yet to come. Also, I don't know if anyone mentioned it today or not, it's not fatal, but I think it's very helpful and a lot of entrepreneurs contacted me about it, it's moving the deadline for making and handing over annual financial reports from 30.4. on June 30th. In these strange conditions of difficulty movement and potential risk of infection will be protected and many accountants who will be able to better determine their protocols and work with their committees because we know that in this last month before the release of annual financial reports can be quite lively, done throughout the days and nights, so in this way they will be significantly relieved of this period. I'm optimistic because the government's response to this crisis isn't what it was when the crisis happened to us in 2009. As I remember then going towards tax increases, which, of course, resulted in a decrease in consumption, and these measures that are now set and based primarily on keeping jobs and people having income, I hope that there should be no significant disturbance in consumption in the future. This crisis that has happened to us now seems terrible, but I believe that it might also be an opportunity for us to change our economic policy. We all know that so far our foreign trade deficit has covered tourism. This may be our chance to find a way to strengthen and strengthen our production. As far as production is concerned, I especially think we should put emphasis on agriculture. We saw for ourselves what was happening at times when there was an announcement of a crisis, when a possible quarantine was announced, all citizens rushed to supermarkets, there were huge ranks because there was simply fear in people of shortages. Stronger agricultural production would not only help the economy, but would also provide safety for people in future events that can happen to us, so that such a reflex reaction does not happen again that it rushes into supermarkets immediately and goes with stockpiling because we will be certain in some way if we produce our own food. What I'd like to mention, anyway, is that I don't think we should, and this has already been mentioned here today, that there should be no significant reduction in state investment or God forbid their total abolitions. The capital and municipal projects carried out both by the state and the local self-government units, I believe, should continue to continue to the same extent, and, if possible, with the help of possibly more resources that we have not used to increase them. It is extremely necessary that that part of the work that can still be done uninterrupted, of course by respecting the epidemiological picture and the epidemiological instructions that they are working to make it easier to start an economy and return to our previous life at least it will never be the same again, but in some way to go back. Several ministries had called for tenders and public calls for units of local self-government and that the situation was normal as it should have been, these tenders should have already been published. I hope that there has only been a delay in publishing the results given the situation in which we are and that there will be no and that there will be no suspension of these supports which are also for local self-government units which will also have to be significantly audited and directed towards their budgets and see how they can overcome this crisis. This epidemic, I think, is an opportunity for us to put our heads together, as we Zagorci know how to say, and to find a policy that will economically not only restore us and return us to the track where we were before this pandemic, but also give us an additional power to fix our place on the scales that measure the economy and economic activity. A large number of countries have done invisiblely certain measures in 2010. Years of the last crisis, and I think we could use that opportunity now. And of course we need to monitor the situation because, as we see ourselves, it changes from day to day and unfortunately none of us have a crystal ball so that we can tell when it will end and how it will end and that we need to prepare further measures to protect our fellow citizens' health primarily, and beyond that and how to get out of this crisis as little as possible. The Party of Labour Club and Solidarity and Independent Representatives supports this package of laws that we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195930	Thank you, Your Honor. We're going to an individual debate. The first reported representative of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195931	Thank you, Vice President. During the debate of this individual, or free speech, I made most of my views, so I won't be too long, waiting for other colleagues to say anything during this debate. I'll do it again. I'd say the main guidelines. We told Prime Minister Plenkovic during the first package of measures and I told him through the replica that these measures were not enough, these measures that were in the first package that people could not be promised write-off but my replica went in the direction of the delay, and I also published on my facebook that replica I had towards the prime minister. The prime minister then said it was some kind of initial measure the government is proposing and would go with new measures. However, I think that we are late, that we should have responded immediately to this crisis and this challenge, that we should have gone immediately with clear and concrete measures to write down all the givens. Also, the grants and the financing of a special line towards our craftsmen and entrepreneurs, and what we are looking for and what we are looking for within our package of laws, 8 of the law in total, will probably come to the debate there after Easter because on Tuesday we are discussing the SDP package of measures, I don't know how correct it is for colleagues from the SDP, after the vote these legal packages will be, and it may have been fairer that it was also left after the Easter. I don't know how much they're going to hear about what they're proposing, but well, that's their problem and they're going to have to find ways to communicate. We will, apart from these taxes and taxes where we are looking for certain changes, look for a moratorium on performances and loans, and we have written that law and referred it to the procedure. It's simply not fair at this point to take action, to do business, to ask if we've given a particular team out to our entrepreneurs let's give it out to our citizens, our people, people who connect the end with the end, who are simply pressed on by the ends. You've brought them into that position and order to give them in a crisis like this, and it's going to be our proposal. Here is the finance minister, and I expect him to meet urgently with Justice Minister Bosnjakovic, to have the government set up a meeting on the subject and go in that direction. You can't please the banks, I know that you have almost that reflex that you're always on the side of the banks, and never on the side of a small man, and we on the other side and before this crisis and now we want to be on the side of the weakest in our society and in this direction goes this legislative proposal. You don't have to accept it, but you suggest something similar we'll vote for it as we will vote for these government proposals. We don't have a problem with you suggesting it like you have a problem when the opposition suggests something. Whatever you suggest, you won't accept it. And as for wages, we will not allow you to cut and cut wages to those on the first line of defense against the crown of the virus. So we're not going to let you cut your salaries to doctors, we're not going to let you cut your salaries to nurses, we're not going to let you cut your salaries to cops, soldiers, firemen, all those who are involved in the fight against this coronary virus. You called this war, in war heroes don't get paid, but if you're going to cut, start from the county. When you touch the county, when you touch the mayors, when you touch the county institutions, then we can even think about it. And now at this point we're looking for a salary increase, here from this place, ministers here, asking for a raise of salaries for doctors, nurses, for our army, for our police, for our firefighters, so that's the minimum you can make, an increase in wages, that's my message, that's what I end up with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195932	Thank you, dear representative of the bush. We've got a few replicas, the first respected representative of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195933	Here, I would like to say to my colleagues that there is a minister, that the fact that MOST has proposed as amendments to the first measures of the government, that they are now accepted, means not a delay but a write-off. However, the fact, you did well and you said that the biggest problem of the Republic of Croatia is the counties that suck up decentralised money for health care, for education, and basically that money who knows where it is directed is never worse or health care, and school management is not the best. We have examples of us falling ceilings in schools, you could talk more about, here's the former mayor of our chairman Mr. Sanader, that ever since the county without this crisis only from the Dalmatian burns 100,000 people have moved out since the county. The fields are not processed, the irrigation is gone, the markets are, imports from Italy, concessions on the maritime well-fits of their godmothers, party coalition partners, and the coalition in Split-Dalmatia County is called Bene Thank you. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195934	Thank you, colleague Bulj, I absolutely agree with you, but they will guard the county until the last drop of blood. But as they will fight, as Ante Sanader will fight for this litter of art, so we will fight for Croatian doctors, nurses, for our police, our army, if necessary teachers and teachers. As they will protect the county and litter of art, so we will protect our people who are on the first line and we will not let you touch them. Until you begin to remove and cut counties, county institutions, county companies where you waste money, where you buy 300,000,00 kn cars, where you act like the Pharaohs. We won't give it to you, it won't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195935	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195936	Dear Representative Grmoy, unlike that crisis in 2008, we are currently having a completely different crisis and cutting wages in the public system, I don't think it's something that should be on the plate. But you mentioned one thing that I mentioned and in my debate, which is that through collective bargaining, there is Minister Maric, along with the unions, needs to be through collective agreements, so to all those who are on the front line of defense against the Corona virus, which is health workers, it's the military, it's the police, but all others, that they need to be arranged for supplements on the basis of 50 to 100% while the crisis is going on, but it can only be done through collective bargaining because in another way we will do that to some without giving them any.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195937	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195938	You clearly should, I said that, here's the minister I told those people they needed to raise their salaries or some supplement, let them find a way to do it, but that's the minimum I can do. Here, the minister is here, I hope he listens even though he's on the laptop, I understand he's busy now, he's got a lot of work to do, but Croatian doctors and nurses, so the military, the police, all those who defend us from this coronary virus, who are exposed, so they need to meet up and increase receipts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195939	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative, Sagar. Give up? Okay, thanks. [[/Clip intrusion: No response.]] Next individual debate, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195940	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrades, colleagues, respected ministers. When we talk about, here's the whole day of the government's measures, of course these are the second package of measures, we as a trial, and I took the first measures and I took it, but then I warned like my club about the problem means that it's being delayed rather than cancelling the commitments to entrepreneurs, that's what the government has accepted, whether it's too late. However, I heard from my colleagues here, I wasn't here at the time for precautions, that Mr. Bacic said that in 1.9, the first crisis unit around the coronary virus was, uh, 9, excuse me, excuse me, excuse me. 9.1. means in the first month, and after that, even the prime minister said at one point was when it was a shift, i.e. Minister Kujundzic said it is a priority to deal with the coronavirus, and we know that measures have only begun to be given after HDZ, when elections within the HDZ, when the government, the HDZ, ended. So that impression will remain between us, but I would talk about what is very important. It's very important, it's a MOST now, so a colleague of the bush is also mentioned here, it's this write-off i.e. This moratorium on credits and moratorium on purpose. We know that even the executive procedures last from the KKZ Raiffeisen to all those who have done more evil to our people, could not in the countries where they came from and because of the meaning of these people would be at this moment, and other countries have taken such measures, I think the banking sector, and the minister knows, at this point there is, is liquid, but the question now is how to keep it all going. But what I do most of the time and what I suggested as a law and put into emergency procedure, it's the Agricultural Land Act. I'll always say that. It is unclear to me that in the Republic of Croatia we have just under 800,000 hectares of unprocessed land, the state has to take certain measures, half of which is owned by the Republic of Croatia. Two years ago. is the Republic of Croatia, 2 years ago. We passed this law in the assembly and then we passed it in a certain way, local self-government brings programs, the county has to give its opinion, so the ministries. I gave the law to get the county thrown out. to the county i.e. Is that simply the way of a kosara car, not to say everyone's holding and nobody's giving up, and so far is not divided but 11,000 hectares, means 1 or 2% of the agricultural land. I call on the minister, the prime minister, here's the 5th time I'm saying that it's very important for us to be self-sufficient, that it's amazing that we import pork in Croatia most of the food products, but even weirder than that. We bake products import a billion kunas, baker's products, and Slavonia is unprocessed. I don't know what kind of policies they were. I don't understand today why the markets are closed, and the trade chains are open, where we have Italian pomidores, where we are now going to get Spanish strawberries and there are conditions, so they're better at the market if we stick to measures and it's very easy to do in markets open to people selling their vegetables, fruits and dairy products. Well, we can't afford import lobbys now. It's not me... Tomato or pomidora, we can have it. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I would just, I mean, it's unclear to me, it's unclear to me logic, it's unclear to me logic, colleagues and colleagues may be funny to you, but it's unclear to me how we might be importing 3 billion euros of food products, and the land is unprocessed. Well, it's not us, I mean, I can't accept it at all. So the measures must be strong and immediately and Minister Vukkovic, and this government must wake up. She can't be this all the time, "Alice in Wonderland." The law on the allocation of agricultural land does not work. Agricultural land is to be farmed, agricultural land is processed freedom in times of crisis. Well, enough of the silos that robbed these wheat on the paws and paws, let alone these grains, grains. I mean, I can't figure out that we're not taking these measures. We've been talking about this for a month. And I don't get it, and here it's actually clear that import lobbys within the ministries have done a huge job, but in the interest of foreign producers. And finally, water, forests, agricultural land, these are our resources that we must protect and protect and defend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195941	Thank you to Honorable Representative Buljo. Next debate, distinguished representative Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195942	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm just gonna keep going for a little bit on what's in front of the club and, of course, welcome these measures, but I don't think there's any doubt about it and let's try to see what we can do next. What I started with the theme in front of the club is exactly the day after these measures stopped, when there is no more tax exemption, when there are no more one-time payouts for employees, how will our economy behave, how will employers function? And that's actually the next step that we have to think about in these months or two, as long as it's supposed to take all these measures, think and wait ready. One of these proposals is the application of Art. 3. 131. The Public Procurement Act, which speaks of a negotiating procedure without prior publication, calls specifically to extend that possibility of ordering small-value purchases or to thresholds to 3 offers or higher of those values in order to make it right where we know we have to do something faster and employ as many people as possible through certain sectors. What I would just suggest is that, I don't know, I didn't see in the measures, to postpone the lease of state space, and write off for those who are banned, because it doesn't make sense, given that everything is going in that direction any more or less, so that we also think that, to those who have been banned from working, we don't burden them with regard to the rent. Let's also say one of the measures would be to allow a blue dilde for construction machinery, modeling fisheries, for agriculture, given the same as one of the sectoral aid measures for construction. The question is one thing, the only thing with workers who have ended a contract on certain measures, is it then either they have to be extended or they will be considered a fall of employees according to how we interpret it, it is certainly considered a fall of employees? And the last thing I wanted to say about the moratorium. I got a message here and it says next. Dear Sir, on your request to postpone payment of liabilities per loan, please provide us with the following documentation for the purpose of processing the request. So, the entrepreneur signed up to delay his wars or delay his moratorium. It says this, the analytical tables excluded with 31.12.2019, the annual financial report of 31.12. and 31.3., the gross balance sheet with 31.12. and 31.3., the tax administration's confirmation of the absence of debt, bon 2, statement for HROK. So, it's not just like that to come to this, I'm practically reading that very little is different from the new credit debt and that all the documentation goes if we want to raise some new credit. I don't see it here, especially I don't understand this tax clearance of the tax administration about the lack of debt to the Commercial Bank, it, I can't even figure it out like this, but good. So, I'm afraid, and this is an appeal to all banks not to abuse what was given to them, and it's given them a lot in the reduction of mandatory reserves and in the way that all credits or those who are, don't now have to go to reservations, so let them do as we obviously have the report and from our businessmen to solve HZZ more or less spottically, that the payments are bigger seats for these aids, that they simply don't play there too much bureaucracy, especially in this time burdening accounting, and especially if we have extended the deadline for handing over the annual financial reports to 30.6. and you're practically now going to have to do all these reports and of course complicate something that should be quite simple, and that's 3 months no one has to pay anything, you go on for 3 months there to stop. Literally moratorium, everything stands, nothing, no interest, nothing. Now, why, how, I appeal to all the banks to make it possible for them to meet, is this certainly a misuse of the trust that this government has given them, to which everything has made it possible and all of what we here want to do with these measures right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195943	Thank you to Honorable counsel Curai. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195944	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm glad Minister Maric is here, and I'm sorry he's not a culture minister because I'm going to dedicate my debate to the state of culture. When the epidemic broke out, one of the first messages to people both by psychologists and by the headquarters was to stay home, stay home, read books, listen to music, watch movies, watch theatre shows that are on TV, watch and listen to recorded concerts, it's a good time. On the other hand, as you know, there are no public gatherings in the decision of the headquarters. We forbade cultural workers to work, no theatre performances, no concerts, no book presentations, no movies. We can't skip that fact, by decision, so the authorities, these people are being prevented from working. And we need to know who it's about. It's about people who usually have, in normal circumstances, the weakest jobs, the least paid, the least fees. A large part of the sector lies on the shoulders of the feeble workers, people who do not have a permanent job, people who do not have permanent contracts, these are people who are fighting for a place under the sun with their creation, for a new value. They create not only new ideas, but also new values, they pay taxes neatly, but they pay the salaries of many in the public sector. The conclusion of the Government is practically required that cultural institutions cease to finance anything that is not considered a basic drive. What exactly does that mean? Among other things, it means that there will probably be no new prime ministers this year, that there will be no new projects, that what started will not be completed and that the cultural drive, regardless of those in permanent institutions or independent cultural workers, will practically stop. And we need to know that independent culturers, so those who create, what our house has doors and windows, which is open to, what we grow by, which is not only our identity, not only are the weakest ones paid otherwise in a scale of all possible jobs but they are not regularly because they are not constantly employed or creditworthy, they are not mostly property owners, the vast majority of them live as tenants, without income are condemned to the horror of human existence. The culture ministry has decided that for all those for whom the state pays taxes and contributions, that is around 1400, it will provide compensation at different levels. One is 1.625.00, the other is 3.250,00 kn, considering their incomes last year. Ministers, please don't forget that at this hour the mainstream and large and small cultural institutions in the Republic of Croatia owe them millions of dollars, and that they paid their fees in time, that they paid what they did last year, they would have a far better starting position. Now this government decision, which practically blocks the payments of everything that is not necessary, will put us in a position to wonder if the HNK in Split will pay 3 million kunas of debts to its external associates without talking about other institutions. So it's about tens of millions of kuna debts to people who've done their job according to contracts, but they're not paid, and now they're in these scissors that they'll probably have to be on the lowest scale possible. It's not right. And cultural entrepreneurship is entrepreneurship, without them we're weaker, without them we're a question of what, if we have an identity, let's not forget them, it's not about the mass of people. Today we have heard in the address of both the prime minister and the minister that already about 400,000 people are actually considered a target group of these measures, and there may be several thousand of them. Let's not forget them. Here, I appeal, let's not let culture stay in the mud, it's the most important and progressive thing we have. When the summer ahead guarantees that there will be no new cultural production because institutions and festivals will be closed, let's not forget them, and these people have to eat, they have to pay their directories, they have to pay their rent, they have to provide their children with at least minimum minimums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195945	Thank you to Reverend Richembergh. The next is the debate of the distinguished representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195946	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. By listening to the debates of clubs today and individually, I am asking myself whether my colleagues and colleagues have read the proposal in sufficient detail these three amendments to the law. We, with these amendments to the law, create preconditions to solve a bunch of these problems that are being talked about here today. At the same time, however, we must be aware of one thing that these three proposals of the law on the one hand regulate and direct us to the revenue side of the state budget which is definitely less due to everything that is going on, and because of these reduced economic activities and limited economic activities, the expenditure side of the state budget will grow. At the same time, in these two draft laws, the Government proposes a model and a way to legally resolve and help those who have lost their income on the one hand is to pay their wages, on the other hand, the other is to provide for compensation or replacement revenues for those who will be left without these revenues. However, I personally ask myself one question whether we are aware that at this point on a ship called the state budget is loaded somewhere in 700 or whether it will be boarded somewhere in 700, 800,000 new passengers and whether the ship's pilot, which is the Government and the finance minister, is very consciously ordering that those small boats that float around that ship not to sink them, because it is not the purpose of certain measures to help one, and to drown others. And if you look at the General Tax Act a little bit better then it is clearly stated for those who have stopped doing what will happen to them, what rights they have, and I will repeat what I said this morning, in fact in the replica, Minister Marić, these 4,000 kunas are not 4,000, who is 5,820 or 825 kuna, because what these 4,000 have to pay in pension and health on the spending side of the state budget and HZZO is creating expenditures that simply have to be settled, and there will be no income, there will be no one to pay them who pays that salary, and the state will pay that salary. However, we need to know that the assessment is that by the end of 4. There may be nearly 600,000 of those who will use this payout model that these people in the past months have had far more income than they have today and that their separation into retirement in health so as to base income tax which the local self-government units' budgets have been far more generous, far higher. So when you add that 1,820, 1,825 to that difference that will no longer appear in the state budget and in the budget of the unit of local self-government, then the complexity of this bill should be seen. And the logical thing is that fellow MPs every single segment or micro group or economy or society suggests that we have to solve and that's good. But what's crucial is, do we see in this bill that this can be solved, I see, simply in amendments to the General Tax Law and amendments to the Law on the implementation of the state budget, I see that the government is opening up space to solve these problems. Because look, we need to be aware of the fact that there must be mutual responsibility and respect for the rules we make in this business first. And that's why I'm glad, and that's why I'm going to repeat that the government has installed this section 6 in Art. 1 for users of the measures pursuant to this Article, which are subsequently determined to have exercised the right for himself or other persons under the provisions of this Article, which he did not have the right to be liable to do so. It is simply such a message that has to be sent because this ship will try to get those who do not have the right to do so, and at the same time in today's debates, we have seen how much each of us in our knowledge think that there are those who would have the right to do so, and that is the complexity of this job. And that is why we must be aware of the government's support for this bill of law and another thing that, by adopting these laws, we are giving the government space to solve right now a series of these problems that colleagues have discussed today and are likely to discuss by the end of today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195947	Thank you to Honorable counsel Shuker. The next debate is the distinguished representative Grosdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195948	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister of Finance. So here's what I said and in the replica, it surprises the attitude of some colleagues who were very skeptical in advance of taking those March measures, and they don't really realize how important it is to see the integrity of all segments and components of the economy and society as a whole so that they can react well, and to listen to all the problems that arise precisely in these extraordinary situations. This intervention on the General Tax Law then the Accounting Act and the State Budget Law actually enables this roof law, organic, general tax law to solve a lot of problems and we know that since 2008 when it was adopted, and then it has seen a lot of changes, it allows for a very high-quality instrument to be able to regulate relations with tax authorities, as regards taxpayers to local self-government units and other public enterprises, and this is a very high quality solution where they are allowed to be paid off in a period of up to 24 months in some cases. The intervention is on Article 107a. The law already amended in March, however, with these amendments is particularly specific. What special attention has she given now? It is precisely that the payment of tax liabilities without the billing of interest is 3 + 3 months and what I said 24 months which is very significant and perhaps should also be referred to this part by blocked citizens where it would be very easy for them to pay off their debt. We see that this is also the way that it works to preserve jobs, and it is very important that this net payment of 4,000 kuna is increased for these contributions because it is actually the untaxable amount that is very much helping to avoid major erosion and large layoffs. When we talk about here the impact of all these changes on the revenues of the state budget then we must be very careful because we see that this way, both with all these changes and with the crisis, is also affecting consumption. I would warn of another fact, which is the units of local self-government that will lose a significant portion of income tax revenue and the government here in carrying out the state budget predicted that it would be compensated with a unscathed loan for the part that is actually coming back, or which is in return to the citizens. I appeal there that this part can be expanded because it is not only the amount lost in the income of local self-government units but a much larger amount, and this would greatly facilitate the functioning of local self-government units, which must take care of budget rebalancing, cost reduction. Well, here's an example of my city that's already reduced the rent for companies that can't work. The first measures reduced or abolished the memorial rent which is intended, and then the residence tax, etc., therefore it is very important to regulate whether VAT payments on this expected income or not, that this is regulated and, in any event, all praise for these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195949	Thank you. Dear MPs Peric one replica, the esteemed representative of Šuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195950	Thank you very much. My colleague Peric, in an individual debate over the short period of time, I don't think I've arrived. I think you've opened one topic well, and these are the units of local self-government. As a reduction in revenues will occur at the level of the state budget, so will a reduction in revenues on, in units of local self-government for a simple reason, is one income tax, but as the state goes towards those who do not work, you cannot charge someone something if it does not work, such a communal fee that is the second source of income by the size of local self-government units you will not be able to charge from those companies that do not do this. And I think when we talk about responsibility then at all levels of government, both from local to state, we just have to do it, everyone has to make projections of what's going to happen to them because they have a database that companies have asked for funding from these salaries. Therefore, these companies do not work and their payment of municipal fees and other fees to local self-government units is questionable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195951	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195952	That's right, thank you very much, yes, and it's very short to have much more to say, indeed every unit has to make projections and see how much they're really going to lose from the income tax expected in the regulatory conditions and then at that height or in some percentage to enable this precisely unambiguous loan because that's how it makes it possible to function, with all units having to take care of the savings, to save and not spend on what is not necessary. I would also, but it cannot be stopped, let's say, some of the investments that are under way, were related to the European Funds, to what has already been signed, agreed, etc., and what is most necessary. So it really needs to be taken care of. I would also point out that everyone thanks to healthcare professionals, police officers, firefighters, merchants, carriers and statisticians who have done and are doing volunteer work every day here in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195953	Thank you, Representative Peric. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195954	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Remember this day because there was a horror today. One of us who moves in human form dared to say that the whole country was paralyzed because a grandfather had decided to live. So, gentlemen, if those are the words of one representative, then we who suffer it among ourselves are also in some way threatened because all of what we do honorably is throwing us away such stains. I won't speak because I despise at this point and his name, and read on social networks in one renowned portal everything he said. A man can't say that. A man can't say that. These are our roots, that these people who live with honor, who have done their part, who are our parents that they will not be us. My people, if we're going to say so, then you better not, people, watch who you choose next time. I have no words, I have no words to express anger, contempt for such advances. It's not human. Is this image aware that it spreads... or ageism as it's written or impatient towards the elderly and it's not the first time and it's not the first time. That behavior is my people's inadmissible in this society. And if we who are aware of our parents ’ respect for them, because this proves that we respect our lives, that this respects the lives of our children, we do not speak clearly and loudly, then this society will not be healthy. It's not healthy if we let this happen and it's never going to heal if we don't talk about it, there's going to be some kind of adventurer that's going to crack on something that this civilization, this democratic reach that we've come to cannot possibly endure. It's inhumane, it's uncivilized, it's inhumane. If I were to stop with this tirad, and it deserves all your tirads, I would just say something else that I was saying on behalf of the club about the need to set up a solidarity system in this country, the greater the crisis, and the longer it lasts, the more we need to set up this stronger system of solidarity. The system of solidarity is not a system of volunteering and benevolence, the system of solidarity is a system that must ensure that everyone in society during the crisis from the situation in which we live and we are working, come out wounded, scratched, mortified, mentally weary, but to get out alive so that they can get up again so that they can walk, fly, that they can enjoy after all this expensive goes away, it's our duty to have systems that ensure life after this, after this pandemic of the coronary virus, but for that we need to think and try without being in power, they've been in opposition, and it's worth every effort, every minute and every second of our thinking. Let us be positive, think of all our citizens and share the fate of very solidarity with them and create a system of solidarity. I appeal to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195955	You said some hard words, but here. We have two replicas. Dear Representative Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195956	Thank you, Vice President. I join your condemnation of such statements in public, inappropriate statements. We are organized human society, we are not a pack of wolves, so this is no way to talk in public space, especially not a representative in the Croatian Parliament to make such statements. We live in sensitive times, and it is vital that everyone in this society keep an eye on what they say. Today, a retired professor on Croatian Radio came forward and asked the editors and members who were there, members of the government and representatives of the union not to be used in that space and that concept that is applicable to the real sector because then she said, and then what we are in the public sector, we are irrational. So everything we are saying today in public space should be measured because we are all affected by this crisis and that is why it is not necessary to stegmatise certain members of society, and especially not in this way because the person of older life is evaluated in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195957	Thank you to the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195958	I thank my colleague Sagar for his understanding. Don't think it was easy to say these words. You who have long known me, you know I never said words like this, but I don't care for a second, and I'm not sorry that I said them because they deserve every single one of us, not just our own, but all the honorable people of this society who live solidarity among the generations, who advocate let's say harmony between the young and the old generations in this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195959	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195960	I think it's important to say that Mr. Ivan Pernar then after C vitamin is now another new squadron, we regret that our colleague is our parliamentary representative, but I hope the citizens will know in the next election who they will vote for. What's on social media today is absolutely for all the convictions because it doesn't matter if someone has 80, 90, whether they're 30, 40 or 20 years old, everyone needs to fight because they're human beings, and Mr. Pernar doesn't realize that we are against this threat, we can only fight this virus with the methods of the 19th century, and this quarantine. This means that social distance is the only medicine that can help to get stuck in this crown both young and old, and that we should not get stuck because the health system must withstand this pressure. Mr. Pernar doesn't understand it and unfortunately I as a hematologist can't help him.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195961	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195962	Thank you. Dear fellow Mrssic that you said what I said that I would not say out of contempt for that act. I think that's okay with me, too, but since you've been referring to my presentation, then I have to say that the image said that the elderly should be abolished and the right to vote on what I've also reacted to in my time, it was, though, at the beginning of the mandate, and I was hoping that maybe it would change a little bit, and that it would learn something, but it's obvious that some people don't have anything going on in their heads.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195963	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Peja Grbin is the next individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195964	Dear colleagues and colleagues, when we began to discuss these measures that the government presented a few days ago, and yesterday, from the session, we made it clear to the Croatian Parliament that they are far better than those adopted in March. Those adopted in March were probationary, they did not solve almost one serious problem. These are much better than that. But just because they're better doesn't mean they're perfect doesn't mean they're gone and I'd say a significant place to fix it. Given the time I'm gonna stop here with the introduction, and I'm gonna try to count the things that I keep in mind for the next few minutes to be fixed. First of all, the measures do not talk about protected rentals, it is a particularly sensitive category of Croatian society which is particularly affected by the earthquake because many of them lived in apartments in the center of Zagreb which are now damaged. I would ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take measures to protect the protected tenants and ensure that they can settle their obligations, in particular the moratorium to raise fees or to raise rents. Next is the lease problem. First, what my colleague Curaj was saying, which is a matter of regulations to enable the state as well as units of local self-government to free users of business spaces from paying the rent. I think we need to do this under emergency, and I hope that the government will make an appropriate regulation within the next few days. However, we have another problem with this, which is the tax treatment of the situation in which the owner of the business space frees the user of the business space of the rent. Many of these situations we have, people have gone out to the tenants because they know they're better off saving someone who's gonna stay and work when the crisis goes down than throwing out and risking whether they'll ever find someone new. However, such use of the business space must also be subject to tax which is not addressed to these measures. The problem that is not mentioned, which should be solved, is the problem of the seamen. Many sailors have come to me, and they are also seriously affected by this crisis, and the measures that are directed towards them are not adequate. The following problem is workers who have one or more shares of the company they work in. These workers have been excluded, a week ago I warned, the ministry has announced a solution to the problem, but until today the problem has not been solved. I appeal to you, I plead to get rid of it, it's present in tourist companies, it's present in others, it's present where there was privatisation, it's present where there was working stockholdering. The person who has one share may be a formal co-owner, but with this one share he does not influence the business of his business, must have the right to support. Another category of workers has been compromised, and these are students workers. We've been informed today that for students, workers are not allowed to issue passes, please update this situation, it's not a lot of people, but it's about people who need that money. If they live in Velika Gorica for example, they are students, they should travel to work in Zagreb they cannot because they are not allowed to issue passes. I'm glad that at this point Minister Cappelli, this previous one may have gone more to Minister Maric, but this goes directly to Minister Cappelli because it refers to workers who were supposed to start working mostly 1.4, and you and I both know what kind of workers are involved, primarily tourism workers. The question I have received and which I am asking you is whether these workers will be hired by the employer or by the employer for these workers if they are hired to have the right to this assistance, which is now set at 4,000 kuna. So that's a question that kills both employers and workers. I saw you yesterday on a similar question for the workers who got fired, which if the employer hired them again, said you didn't know the answer, I hope you found out by now, and it would be very, very good to go out for the pay phone and give that answer. The last thing I'm going to talk about, I'm left with 30 seconds, maybe I'm bored with it, but I think it should be reiterated, repeatedly stressed until the government starts to solve the problem, and that's the question of the judiciary. Last Friday, the minister announced a reference to the law procedure that will address the issue of deadlines, as well as many other problems in the work of the judiciary. Such a law has not yet come into the process, I appeal to the government since I was told from the ministry that the law is almost ready, to refer the law to the procedure during the weekend at a telephone session so that we can discuss the law on Monday, and to vote on Tuesday because it is an extremely serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195965	Thank you. We've got two replicas, the first distinguished representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195966	Thank you very much, fellow coat of arms. You and I know well that this government passed a law where they didn't care about protected tenants at all. The protected tenants are certainly still in the added problem of the earthquake in the City of Zagreb. When it comes to people who had to leave their apartments because they couldn't be in them, the government said that there were 30 apartments available and that they would be arranged and received by certain people. And the City of Zagreb, although we have data that the City of Zagreb has 7100 apartments, which is the City of Zagreb, which is Holding, the City of Zagreb has said that there are 0 apartments that can be solved for people who really died in the earthquake. This earthquake has actually shown the extent of damage in the city of Zagreb which for many years has been and have resulted now, so 7,000 apartments, and when it comes to meeting citizens and protected tenants 0. I'm afraid they'll stay really unprotected maximum.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195967	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195968	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Mrak Taritash, you know that I wrote that we together as parliamentary representatives have applied for an assessment of the constitutionality of this law that regulates the issue of protected tenants and I am taking this opportunity to ask, to plead, to appeal, however you wish, to the Constitutional Court to solve this problem as soon as possible. These people are in an unspeakable situation, a report sent by the government at the end of last year showed that protection measures did not have any effect at all. And now there's been a crisis with the coronary virus and then another earthquake in the City of Zagreb. I believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should react hastily and the direction in which it should go is next. Returning the rent to the amount that was at the time of the law, moratorium until the Constitutional Court's decision, and certainly in the worst case, moratorium as long as this crisis continues and as long as the consequences of the earthquake in the city center of Zagreb are not removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195969	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195970	Dear colleague, you mentioned the VAT issue, I mentioned the authority because it was too short for me to elaborate longer. So, VAT either for private tenants, whether for local self-government, is calculated on the invoiced lease. Otherwise, in this case, tax authorities that come in control one day may be obliged to pay VAT on the expected income if we do not state it as something that is conditional, so if it is 0 kuna, if the city or the renter of the aliquot is given up, that it is not really in the obligation to pay VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195971	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195972	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, as far as local self-government units are concerned, I wasn't talking about VAT, I was talking about renting as such. So, units of local self-government are bound to charge and bill, you've been head of finance, you know that very well, they're obliged to charge the rent. And they have no legal basis without amending the law on the lease of a business space in order to reduce or release the lease. As a result, I appeal to amend the law on the lease of business space as soon as possible in the procedure. However, when we talk about rent tax, it is not only value added tax, there is income tax or income tax. Income tax is calculated by tax administrations not by what is in the contract but by their estimates. And you, if you're not paying and you've freed your tenant from paying the rent, you still have to pay the tax. At this point, in this situation, I don't think it's justified for both those tenants and those tenants who have agreed otherwise or that no pay really needs to be made to meet, the more they, as private entrepreneurs of another private entrepreneur, have freed for solidarity. Here, I'm sorry I overstepped. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195973	Thank you. The next debate of the distinguished representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195974	Dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to look back here if these measures that we have in front of us today were speaking in part about the write-off of certain donations and that's what's good. I would also like to say, I see here a resolute tourism minister, that I have a number of hotelers who have planned to expand their accommodation capacity, but in these circumstances with these investments care, it is very important that these investment projects are launched. I therefore appeal this way since we have a green light from the European Commission so that we can change thematic location within the EU funds' priorities that you actually use as much resources as possible for energy efficiency in tourism and industry so that this fixed part of the costs to our hotelers and that this investment cycle simply does not stop. I would also like to talk here about pensioners who have up to 500,00 kn pensions, they are about 95000, and they are also about 185,000 those who have pensions up to 1,000,00 kn, they are extremely difficult in this period because they need to be supplied for several days not to actually go to the store daily. With these amounts, it is simply impossible, and I believe that certain one-time aid that can be paid to their accounts that is known, all their data are known to HZMO. I was also approached by a number of students who worked through a student service, unfortunately a number of them canceled their jobs because they mainly worked at malls, T-centers or something like that, they ran out of that extra income. The additional income focused on the existence of them and their families. It is simple that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has provided every student with 150 euros in the Corona period, I believe that at that moment that money will also be able to withdraw from European funds because we know that we are now funding scholarships, socially affected families from European funds. As for my mother and they have spoken to me, they are particularly concerned about those mothers who are running out of parental leave. Namely, they have young children for over a year, but they simply need to go to work, and they have no one to trust their children with their care because simply kindergartens and schools do not work. I therefore appeal, and I have also appealed to the minister's email to extend this parental leave to three months additional. As for the eu funds, I warned Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic this morning about two decisions taken yesterday at the government, and they concern the suspension of all public calls and all public tenders from all sources of funding. It is that the decision states that a certain part will still be released, but it is left to the Minister of Finance's decision. Since I have been involved in the work of the Government for a while, and I know how my fellow state support colleagues, and there are only a few of them that it is one narrow throat, I would not like to see entrepreneurs waiting again for a year for money from European funds still waiting for a call. What is at this point, which I wish the government had come out and I hope we won't go with the third, fourth, fifth and so on, that we'll go out with one plan and a vision of how and where to invest, where people will need them, which sectors will be supported because what to provide both social services and the health system at this point in the functional and pension system and safe pensions is needed to maintain economic activity. I would also like to say that as far as this economic activity is concerned, there is certainly an opportunity in European funds, I say the European Commission is considering, I think that I have even read to see whether those Member States will even not have to give up their national co-financing, so I hope that if we do so, our Government will get these favourable conditions because it is certain that every kuna in the budget means to us. Here is the call in this reasoning to sound financial management and this, in fact, was an integral part from the beginning, it was part of the Budget Law and simply from the first day of the term of office of the Prime Minister and their members were to be guided by this, it is an obligation from the beginning to the end of the term of office so that there is no need for this explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195975	Thank you. Here's a replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195976	Dear colleagues. I agree with you that pensioners have a hard time living, that they have low incomes, but that also does not free us from the responsibility of interpreting statistics properly. You know, you have one point that in Croatia 95,000 citizens receive a pension of up to 500 kuna, in fact it's true that there are 3,000 of them, and everyone else or lives abroad and for a proportion of the internships receive a pension abroad or live here and from abroad for their proportionate pensions they get part of the pension. Therefore, I agree to tell the truth the way it is, they live hard pensioners have small incomes, but it's just that we throw ourselves so much into the mud that we're no country, I think it's beneath the dignity of representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195977	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195978	Dear colleague Hrelja, I agree, but given the information I received, I received from HZMO and also received an official response from the Minister of Resort. What's standing there is the kind of information I said, so that's what I got. So here I have to say that the Resort Ministry issued such a piece of information with the signing of the Secretary of Resort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195979	Thank you. The next debate is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. He's gone, so he lost his right to argue. Next is the individual debate of the distinguished representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195980	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers, respected ministers, state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. So, given that it is already a late hour debate, I will immediately move on to the thing that seems not good in these measures, otherwise the measures must be taken by themselves because this agency, mentioned by the prime minister in his address this morning, has reduced by 1 degree the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia, but has said one important thing, that the estimate that GDP could fall by 5% points, which means that in some rough RH account it could lose about 50,000 jobs minimally. We don't really know because this crisis has not yet been, and it since 2008, cannot be measured by this crisis because there is a crisis here both on the side of the offer and on the side of demand. So, these measures are necessary to bring, but there is always a problem when measures are being taken, when legal solutions are being passed always with these borders or popular censors, 50% are being mentioned here, and today some MPs have already asked the question of what is the difference between the one who has a 49% downfall and the 51%, this has been administratively cut off in this way, so they will have the rights of larger ones who have a slightly smaller decrease in business. And the second thing, when we talk about 4,000 fees for the monks, for the preservation of jobs, it's not the same and it seems to me that today that the unions have apostropheed it, it's not the same for that worker who's still working and gets 4,000 kunas and the one who doesn't work, and it's going to get the same 4,000 kuna in that sense, because it's questionable whether entrepreneurs will give those workers who work more than what they're supposed to do. So these measures, which today, it has been repeatedly stressed that they amounted to around 9 billion kuna in 3 months, so these are both salaries and contributions, somewhere mentioning the amount from the common European cash register about the same amount as 9 billion kuna and the total value of these measures is estimated at 40 billion kuna. Therefore, it is obvious that some of the money will be missing, a substantial amount, the colleague Shucker said, but the increase in the expenditure side, and the reduction of the revenue side, which is inevitable because we only look at VAT revenues given the tourism sector that will certainly fail, then we expect a significant income deficit. And I personally support these measures, we will probably and in the club support them, just looking for ministers to think about these limits anyway, not to set them fixed, to maybe determine the percentage that part of it is paid to help with the downfall, and about these fees to distinguish those people who work from those who don't. And what I warned the prime minister this morning and I am asking you that there is in the Republic of Croatia a series or group of citizens, that's what my colleague Grbin was talking about, so let's mention the students not only that they, that they can't use these measures, but they are in many here in the trade chains where they are also exposed to the health threat they don't have those raises that regular workers have. Here, now we hear I can't even get travel permits. So students should also be considered because they are not just additional sources of income because many are the only sources of income for study. There are, of course, pensioners who, of course, are mentioned a little bit now, are people who wanted to make extra money, we made it possible for them, at this point they can't do it, they can't make extra money. There are already mentions of sailors, there are people who are now using certain social rights. So, people who had turns, so they shut down, so they're taking fees from the employment office. Now that the fee they're doing now, one man asked me what to do now, 1.4, he gets paid, no more self-employment measures, he's not a man who doesn't want to work, but where he's going to get a job now and how to start this product because it wasn't even before this crisis it was all ideal. So, before this crisis, people were closing down, these coronary crises caused by the coronary virus, closing their turns. So, we welcome these measures, but vulnerable groups in society should be discussed because citizens, as well as banks should enable citizens to refinance their obligations so that we do not also be colleagues of the Grbin right to say and the judiciary to see, that no implementation is carried out at this point because many of the speculatory powers will come to cheap real estate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195981	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195982	Thank you very much. My colleague Sagar, I replicate to you only about one thing and I think all of us MPs in the Croatian Parliament should react in this way. I personally think that what made the rating agency out of their minds is out of line, I don't know how to say it. The moment the whole world shakes, when the world's entire economy is in crisis, someone smart is going now estimating what a credit rating is. Well, wait till the crisis is over, then grade. Or maybe it's going to be on the hands of someone who has money, so countries like Croatia let's tell me that they're a little bit worse than what, so when they're in charge of a little bit of a split, let's say, higher interest rate. So, colleagues and colleagues, I publicly invite you here, let's show this solidarity towards our country, and just like that kind of guys who allow themselves to do such things simply say that they have no right to do so at a time like this when the whole people are fighting and the whole world is fighting this pandemic. They just don't have the right to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195983	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195984	Dear colleague Shuker, I'm glad you said that because you're both a former minister and an economist and you know it's done. It's not in public space sometimes it's not grateful to say so, but it's brave to say that there's an impact on those agencies that they're simply doing this all out of some interest. They have reduced the credit rating and I agree with why they have now done so, at this very moment, they could wait a little while to see what the effects and these measures will achieve, and maybe that's because the government has announced that this refinancing of the business sector's obligations will enable them to survive, so maybe that's one of the reasons that you say interest is shared.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195985	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195986	Dear colleague Sagar, you're right. We are a country with a small, relatively small population on a large surface, and that should be our advantage, to try to organize work wherever we can. Here we all see together that working in a store under restricted conditions, under the circumstances that are allowed to work, that work in banks works, why not organize that the builders of the Istrian Ipsilon work full steam, that the builders of the Peljega Bridge work full steam and access roads and everything else. So wherever you can work without being threatened, people don't group to avoid jeopardizing other people, where you can do it on your own, what does that tractorist in Slavonia bother to be all day long, takes a nice marenda can be plowed all day long and be in the fresh air. Why don't you, in a way, talk about it publicly, give people the more we do, the faster and easier we'll get out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195987	Thank you, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195988	Dear colleagues of Hrelja, you are absolutely right, public sector investment should not be stopped, ministers should see local self-government units currently in the construction phase, whether it is a sewerage, whether it is water supply, to somehow enable that part of co-financing. What we are missing, private sector investments, here is the Minister of Tourism, perhaps it should now be thinking that all those who, despite this crisis in this time when they cannot carry out their primary activity, if they invest and who wants to invest at the moment, but if there are such people who want to invest, and with regard to what counterpart Schuker said might bother someone, and that he wants to prevent it, if the banks would want to follow these people who want to invest now that the state is particularly rewarding them with some measures to express themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195989	Thank you. And the third replica of the distinguished representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195990	In your presentation, you mentioned the people who appear to you and the problems they are. The problem is endless, only now do we see the actual scale of the problems that are. For example, sports clubs report to me, sports clubs have coaches who work with children and are funded by members of parents. No membership fees, no kids, those sports coaches are waiting, waiting for some better times. So here you have a whole group of different problems that are now opening up. I expect what I expect, I expect some government measures that will focus on everything that a society does, which is not just work and work results. So one society is also a culture, and a society, and a sport that we want the day after we all go to work, work and move. I've seen some coaches get organized and some things work on the facebook, but it's not all possible and it won't be all possible. But I expect that April 20 set that will address other problems like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195991	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195992	Dear colleagues, Dark Taritash. So now I see in the debate a man and forget all the mentions that have come forward, people who are dealing with real estate traffic have come to their attention, all their business activity has stopped for a number of reasons. After all, I can't even physically show the real estate because of these measures. What we have to do today, in free speech alone, emphasized it, is a very important education system for us, and we must not play with it. He has far-reaching consequences on this society, and we need to do everything now to bring this school year to an end in a quality way in the sense that no students are damaged, that teachers who are also in a difficult position to do so properly because it will have far-reaching consequences. And maybe to take advantage of the opportunity you gave me with this replica to say today I said in free speech that some countries are thinking about repeating school years, in the Republic of Croatia it can't happen, there's no need for that. I think teachers have done well, but now all we need to do is properly evaluate what the students need, and the state's graduation needs to be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195993	Thank you. Next debate, distinguished representative Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. I find that at 16.47, I conclude this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195994	... that the declaration of amendments is. [[Specially enabled.]] We will first declare the amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law on the completion of the general tax law. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Live Wall Representatives' Club and We Change Croatia, MOST Representatives' Club of Independent Lists and Agent Ivan Lovrinović. The first amendment to the proposal for a law was made by the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, which is an amendment to Article 107(6). I'd like to ask the Proposer to be made aware of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195995	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The amendment is not accepted. The proposal for a law exempting the settlement of tax obligations in whole or in part shall be permitted if, as a result of decisions by the competent authority, work is prohibited or disabled, or where work is difficult to provide strong support to taxpayers in their efforts to preserve employment and ensure the necessary liquidity. Therefore, it is not necessary to provide additional provisions for the write-offs and for the period following the termination of the special circumstances as provided for here because the prescribed mechanism through the adoption of a sub-legislative act during the period of special circumstances provides for the possibility that the Minister should, therefore, regulate certain areas differently from the way in which they are regulated under the conditions of regular operation, allowing for a rapid reaction and adaptation of measures while the specific circumstances are still taking place. The more yet, if in Croatia and around the world we have completely unknown one or two variables, I would say, and that is the length of the crisis itself and its size and impact on the economy, the measures proposed and the form in which this article is intended to be implemented through the rulebook will be much more efficient, faster in the context of reactions on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195996	Thank you, Mr. Zrinasic. Otherwise, the amendment promoter is the Government or Ministry of Finance Mr. Secretary of State will now be shown Mr. Zrinašić, Zdravko Zrinašić. I apologize for being so far away from that microphone there, but the joke is as it is you'll have to hang out a little, if you want to sit down again. Mr. Grmoya will be manifested, will now be manifested on behalf of the club on the amendment please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195997	Dear Secretary of State MOST has from the beginning advocated the write-off of all taxes and taxes since the government of the Republic of Croatia suspended the right to work. We also asked this amendment that, if there was a possibility of write-off, and when the taxpayers were in the midst of special circumstances unable to carry out their activities, I suggest the introduction of so-called. Tax holidays, I am sorry that you refused this amendment, and I would also like to appeal to the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, that the Croatian Parliament should continue the session because it is not intended to pass laws that will bring the moratorium to completion and credit. Our citizens deserve a peaceful Easter, the government didn't mean the unemployed, it didn't mean our pensioners, it didn't mean the completed and blocked, and it didn't mean our farmers who didn't have the opportunity to make their goods what they produce, how to place it. The markets are closed, we have an e-pass problem, all of these are the problems this assembly has to discuss. I call on the President of the Croatian Parliament to continue with the meeting MOST has given the law introducing a moratorium to perform and loans, but we are also prepared to support and rule the law, which will be directed by the Government. Unfortunately, we read today in the media that the government intends to do nothing until after Easter. Our citizens deserve Easter without fear, deserve a peaceful Easter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195998	Thank you very much. Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u195999	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196000	Thank you very much. Otherwise we'll pass on your proposal to the President of Parliament. The second amendment was submitted by Mr Ivan Lovrinovic. I would like to ask Mr Zrinasic's proposing that the amendment be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196001	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. In light of the proposed amendment, it is said that the term is significantly difficult to abuse in terms of encouraging clientelism and corruption. It is our view and the view that this is not necessary and it is not necessary to amend that norm within the law because, given that the General Tax Act, or its amendments and additions, provides that the sublaw will prescribing both the deadlines and the payment of value added tax in the import of donations, the enforcement of forced payment, the amount of interest and procedural provisions. Therefore, this provision proposed here may also be part of that implementing regulation which should be much more comprehensive and elaborately elaborated, i.e. very precise.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196002	Mr. Lovrinović, would you like to show yourself? Yes, go ahead. I'd like to ask the MPs, excuse me, who want to show that they're slowly approaching the end of this argument by making time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196003	I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary of State, that the government has not accepted this amendment with good intentions. Namely, once again I ask you to vote to adopt this amendment, it is of general benefit. Why? Because here you say in the proposal, that if the government is, circumstances have occurred, so it's difficult to work and because of the ban on working the caterers, the tourist activity, those who deal with hotel service etc., etc., they're not guilty of the fall, because of what happened and what will fall on them. However, there are no criteria here on the basis of which you will release a partial or complete settlement of tax obligations. In that sense you use the term significantly difficult work, it means nothing. How are you going to assess whether or not you're going to release someone's tax obligations by explaining that he has a considerable difficulty in his work. That is why I have proposed a very clear criterion, if the total income to the company falls 30% compared to the average months of the last year, the average to be released entirely from tax liabilities. Once again, I warn you whether you're going to put 50% or 30% of it together, but I warn you that this is a very large area of discretion that will really stimulate clientelism and corruption. Especially political corruption and then other entrepreneurs will be in a bad position. Hence, many could not work. Here I am glad first I put pressure here positive two weeks ago to open green markets, today they are open that our OPGs, small producers can finally offer their goods especially now before Easter. Have an understanding of the meaning and for this, this is indeed with good intentions in the interest of all of us. Thank you, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196004	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote? Yes, well, thank you. The third amendment is the Association of Representatives of the Living Wall and let's change Croatia. Here you go, Mr. Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196005	Thank you very much. Since the substantive amendment is almost identical to the amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, the amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196006	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196007	Thank you. So the Living Wall requested this proposal to exempt the payment of tax obligations in full for taxpayers affected by special circumstances so that a further crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus could be contained. Thank you and we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196008	It is the third amendment of the Living Wall Club and let's change Croatia, now it is an amendment to Article 1. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196009	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The amendment goes towards co-financing of net wages and payments of those same salaries if it is an employer in a blockade. This kind of proposed intervention is not possible through the General Tax Law, given that the General Tax Law itself refers to tax procedures and in this case this measure would only work in tax matters, and not in other procedures that are based on, for example, the same. The law on enforcement or the law on enforcement on money or other implementing rules. In that sense, the government has already launched this measure through the Ministry of Labour, which is usually measures for entrepreneurs, stressing this payment, which is 3,250 now to 4,000 is support measures for entrepreneurs through the Ministry of Labour, has provided payment in such a special account if the blockade came from 3 months and beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196010	Mrs. Sabolek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196011	Well, it's like you haven't accepted this amendment. With this amendment, we have proposed, please, this amendment proposed paying the co-financing of salaries directly to the natural persons employed by the taxpayer to their accounts in order to provide them with the necessary money for life and work that would not be able to receive in the event of the taxpayer's blockade. In this way, the state would help the worker directly, not the banks and not take back the funds it has allocated, which would be the case with the original proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196012	Thank you, too. Are you asking for a vote? You're looking for a vote. And so we're done with the amendments to the proposal for a law supplementing the general tax law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196013	I would like you to take your seats so that we can approach the vote. I also ask my fellow guards to count the number of MPs who are here in our new assembly... Col. Glasnovnic, please refrain from such comments. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Can you brief me on the number of agents present? I find there are 128 MPs in the hall, so we have conditions to vote. Before we go to the vote, a colleague of Petrov, who I suppose will ask for a break, came forward, so I would like to ask you if you agree that all those who want to take a break at any point to report right now to take advantage of that part because it would be very unfortunate for us to leave the room every little bit and return to reduce the possibility that the gap between MPs and MPs would be less than 2 metres. So, right now, we're going to start taking requests for a break, and they're going to explain the break of each of the clubs so that we can vote on all the points in continuum after that. So, first colleague Petrov reported, a colleague of Zekanovic, a colleague of Panenic, a colleague of Madjar, reported. Is anyone else picking up? Nobody's answering any more. So then I realize there will be no more requests for a break during the vote. Well, here's a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196014	The Honorable President of the Assembly, MOST, has asked for a break due to the upcoming vote of the content. We believe in the MOST because of these measures that have been adopted or will be taken today that not all groups of citizens who are at risk of this crisis between them and seasons and unemployed and blocked, completed citizens and citizens with credits are covered. Among other clubs, MOST has submitted a legislative proposal for citizens with performances. I know other clubs in the opposition have also sent similar laws. The government is announcing assistance, and it is delaying citizens' assistance. We will always support all those draft laws that are good for the citizens, but I ask that the principle of reciprocity be respected, that, in accordance with good parliamentary practice, we discuss all these laws. And that is why I propose that the work of the assembly continue until the end of this week, that all the laws be discussed whether they come from the ruling part or from an opposition that can help both citizens and the economy so that we can enable absolutely everyone, not just some peaceful Easter. If some of them had the right to rest before Easter, then others do. And that is why I would suggest that after the vote we have a session of the presidency so that we can agree to continue the work of the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196015	My colleagues and colleagues, so as to continue the work of the assembly, this week was planned not to have a assembly, not to have a plenary session, we were supposed to interrupt the session as planned last Friday. Given the circumstances, we extended the work both yesterday and today to this week. We'll continue on April 15th, so please accept that, we haven't stopped with plenary sessions since January 15th. I don't remember, and for a long time I've been a parliamentary representative that any council meeting has worked in continuity, given the circumstances, I think it's normal, but we're also aware of the situation we're in, not just us, but almost the whole world. Follow a little bit how other parliaments work, and here today I got the information that let's say Bundestag reduced the quorum from half to 1/4, so when they have 1/4 plus 1 MP then it's worth the quorum and I can vote. So I'd ask you to understand that what we're doing right now is beyond the standards that we've been working on before the crisis related to the coronary virus, but let's not now insist that we continue to go in a direction that is contrary to the recommendations in fact when it comes to health protection. So, we will vote today, after which we will have a debate on the package of laws proposed by the SDP, continue on the 15th, and then we will also discuss government proposals and proposals that will come from the parliamentary minority. I think it's very correct and I respect it, and we from the ruling majority respect how our colleagues in the opposition behave, but also, please and accept that we also have to stick to certain principles and certain ways of working. We're going on a second break now. That's a colleague of Zekanovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196016	President-in-Office of the Parliament, I request a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns, to further consult on the vote. I must say here that I am extremely sorry that this package of laws that we are about to adopt today has not been adopted in that first tour, so 15 days ago, because it would have made it very much easier for entrepreneurs to work. On the other hand, I feel bad that we didn't take care of this package of laws, or the government didn't want to take care of the unemployed, of all those who needed to get a seasonal job, which doesn't take care of all those who were blocked and completed. So this set of laws will come in handy for one part of entrepreneurs, but one general population, one general standard, will not be welcome. Furthermore, I must ask an extremely important question and I would like, perhaps, the Prime Minister, if he has a will, to answer in some way. What about European solidarity? What about the EU? Does it work any more? Because today we see that every country within the EU has turned exclusively to its own resources. That European solidarity no longer exists. I would today speak exclusively of European selfishness because there is no more significant fund from which any state, including our Croatia, could receive funds that could help its economy. So the European project is stuck on the first major obstacle. Simply, the European project no longer works but will say that everywhere in the world is difficult, I will say some examples contrary. American solidarity where America from the Federal Reserve has greatly helped all federal states within the United States. On the contrary, we have one project that has failed, which has shown its true face, which is a European project. And I'd like to withdraw a message from this and eventually become a real sovereign state after this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196017	We're going to the third, third request for a break. Comrade Panenić, here you go. What happened, colleagues and colleagues? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196018	Here you go, it'll be... A microphone. A microphone. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196019	All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196020	I commented that this is not true because a billion and some million euros within the EU are just planned for Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196021	Good thing you were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196022	That's what the comment was about. I don't know if it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't feel offended.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196023	Okay, I'm sorry, colleagues and colleagues, please, so I didn't hear it because I can't hear it there in that part. I invite you all to behave properly, to respect each other, to work under special circumstances, and please, in accordance with these circumstances, we all behave. Look, I didn't hear what happened. I've heard from my colleague Pusic now if that's what it is, if that's what it really was, then I'm expressing the harshest judgment against what my colleague Zekanovic did and I urge you to calm down. We work here for the good of Croatian citizens, for the good of our country, and please, yes, to really stick to the order and rules of good behavior. Here's my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196024	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. In the name of the Club of Independent Youth List, we are looking for a break just to point out that the current set of laws that we will adopt and which we have shown as a club that we will provide support is not simply enough, primarily in the agriculture sector. And we have to say that we are dissatisfied that only amending a single law relating to a postponement of funds that have not been used for purpose is not something that will help the agriculture sector to a sufficient extent. I will also call on the Government and the Minister of Agriculture to find through a whole series of laws that determine the business of agricultural producers a lot of measures that are possible to facilitate the functioning and primarily take care of both the goods and the market that are needed. Not only does it come down to wage insurance, most agricultural producers, especially those smaller ones, will not actually be able to take advantage of this measure, it is very important for them to have access to the market, that the market is organised, that the Republic is now protecting its market as we see some other countries being protected and that policies that are not only a legislative character are directed at trading, especially in the area of our country, products that have Croatian origin, thus significantly helping the sector that will be right now, during the Easter, after the Easter, will have significant losses in the beginning of its season. If we look at the examples of a Member State of Romania, it has determined under normal conditions that at least 50% of the products in the trade chains must be of Romanian origin. I think it is now bold and courageous to bring a similar measure for products coming from the Republic of Croatia and to protect our economy as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196025	And we're going to the fourth request for a break. It was a colleague, a colleague of Mader, that's right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196026	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Labour Party Club and solidarity and independent representatives, I am looking for a break to warn of a package of measures concerning agriculture itself. We think that in order to consult on the vote, about the package of measures in agriculture, we think that they are not enough and are primarily related to the CAPs. We consider that the costs of the OPG pay are not covered, nor are the costs of those employed in the OPGs, so we propose to the Government that the next package includes measures for agriculture and the costs of employees in the OPGs, as is done in the economic sector, which means that all these farmers, with certain censors, should be included among those who, in order to reduce the volume of work or inability of work, receive guaranteed income from the state from 4,000.00 kn. We also ask the Government to declare what will happen to the fees paid in sport fishing, since we know that there is no sport fishing, and we also ask that there is no charge for renting agricultural land as regards leases and concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196027	Thank you. Now we're going to go to the vote. Before we go, just, so instructions. On the side are colleagues and colleagues who count votes, so please just hold your hand long enough so they can count who's for, who's abstention and who's against it. After that, they will each, after counting the votes, report to the central table on how much for, how much against, how many abstentions and after that, their colleagues will then inform me and I will report the result. So it'll go a little slower, but it's our only way to be precise and to be exact. So we start with: Final proposal of the law on the completion of the General Tax Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 895. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. They're amendments. Here's your colleague, Vucelic. What you need, say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196028	Do I have a word?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196029	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196030	President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr Jandrokovic, I call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. In 238, and I would ask you to explain to all of us present representatives and to the Croatian public what happened to the Law on Electronic Communications? Will that law go to another reading? If he's going to go to another reading, when does it take effect? Today you have made it impossible for all MPs to defend the amendments without any explanation. I'd like you to answer those two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196031	A colleague of Vucelic's. So that law will come to order and is proposed to conclude that it is going to another reading. What you've done now is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, completely unnecessary, and I don't understand why you did it, and I'm going to give you a warning. The amendments have therefore been submitted by the Live Wall Representatives Club and we change Croatia, the Most Representatives' Club of Independent Lists and Agent Ivan Lovrinović. We had a statement on the amendments earlier in the session. Now we're going to vote on amendments that the motionor does not accept, so we're going in a row. The first amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. Who's up for the amendment? Just raise your hands high so we can count you. You have, can you tell me how much it's against, or how much has this amendment accepted? So, the amendment got 40 votes for so there's no need to vote against and abstention, so now we're not going to go to the amendment like the vote, when we vote on every law that we have the correct number for, against and abstention, but I'm just going to find out here that he didn't get enough votes. This amendment therefore did not receive the required number of votes. We are going to the second amendment of Agent Ivan Lovrinović. Who's in? The government doesn't accept it. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We now have an amendment to the Living Wall Society Club and change Croatia, the government does not accept it. Please, let's vote. Who's in? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. The second amendment is also a Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and let's change Croatia, the government does not accept it, so let's vote. Who's in? I find that this amendment has also not received the required number of votes, so I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law supplementing the General Tax Code. Let's vote who's in? Please just hold the hand you're in. Be patient when the first two, three votes pass now, then the routine will be easier with colleagues and colleagues, I will ask only slowly. And then what I'm going to get by asking who's against when I have to go to the first two, three have the ratio of strength to how many people are in parliament, please, come on. Did you count it? Who's restrained? Who's against it? You can write to me now. So, now we're gonna turn our colleague Bauk around and it'll be easier. So 129 votes are for, 0 is abstentions and 0 is against, so I'm determining that the law was passed unanimously, the Law on the completion of the general tax law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196034	Good afternoon, Honorable President HS, Honorable MPs and MPs. I am pleased to have the opportunity to present today in the framework of this April package of measures that we propose in the context of tackling the social economic and social consequences of the coronary virus pandemic that the Republic of Croatia is facing. We, as you know, presented the first package in March with 63 measures, were immediately a spot-on government response to how to facilitate the situation for our economy, for workers, for our entire system of functioning under new circumstances. This package we talked about yesterday at the government, which we presented to the public on Wednesday, as you can see, comes not only in the context of the battle against the coronaryvirus but also in the context of a major earthquake that hit Zagreb and the surrounding area and part of Krapina-Zagorje County of 5.5 per Richter. I would once again, on behalf of the Government, like to express my condolences to the family of the young girl Anamaria, who, unfortunately, lost her life in that earthquake. I want to thank all those who have made every effort in recent weeks to protect the health of Croatian citizens, Croatian doctors, nurses, general medical staff, thank the police, thank the inspectors, customs officers, all those who work these days in shops, to ensure the normal functioning of our lives. I would also like to thank everyone who has helped bring about lightning from the earthquakes in Zagreb, civil protection, city services, police and HV. This March, which is behind us March 2020, for many things will be a month that we will remember for a very, very long time. He basically changed the course of both our activities and our plans, our achievements and marked the beginning of a new normal, new normal that we would face for a time. And that is why we are in a period that requires the unity of the Croatian people, all of our fellow citizens, demands responsibility, self-discipline of individuals, demands the patience of all of the youngest who unfortunately cannot go to school to many who currently cannot do their job to our oldest who, in this epidemic of the crown of the virus, we need to keep and take special care of them. We're like many other countries facing a dilemma. A dilemma in which we have a choice between saving lives and preserving the health of Croatian people and temporarily giving up the way of life so far. As Government, we chose life, we chose the health security of Croatian citizens. And that is why we have taken the measures that when we view comparatively with other countries in Europe, when we look at the dynamics of the spread of infection and the increase of the number of patients in many countries in the world, so far are quite successful in limiting the rate of spread of infection, and also at a rate of mortality.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196035	So like this, we have reached an agreement that only those who are on behalf of the club here two can replicate. MOST has already reported 3, now see that a colleague of Sladolev came with the same intention, also comes fellow Maras. So we're not matchmakers, so what is it? So, what's the deal now? We make a deal and you start, you start, you start cheating on this guy like we're on the street playing this matchmaking game. Come on, please, two representatives from every club can replicate and don't do that. I asked correctly, we decided we'd argue longer in clubs, and now we're pretending to be ignorant, and we're going into the assembly like we didn't agree on anything. So, every club, please pick two who will participate in the debate. Excuse me, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196036	Thank you very much. So when we compare the dynamics of the spread of infection in the Republic and in other countries and Europe and the world, we can say that we have achieved good results with the measures we have taken so far. I am saying this because after a series of consultations with doctors, with experts, with scientists, I must repeat to you and the Croatian public that the battle against coronaryvirus at this stage when we do not yet have a reliable cure, or vaccines, or we have acquired immunity, will primarily lead to the principles of medicine of some earlier centuries, which separates those who are sick from those who are healthy. And that's why our social contact reduction strategy is getting these results. We see an example of a country that has chosen a slightly different strategy in recent weeks, which is Sweden to have a sudden rise in both the infected and the dead. So what we're doing right now is right and justifiable. And we're going to be held as government by the recommendations of experts, especially the epidemiologists, because that's their job under these circumstances. The package of measures we adopted yesterday at the government comes after this package of March has already come into life. Here is Minister Maric, and he will say in more detail that the tax administration has received as many as 64939 requests by 14 yesterday, of which 64% have already been resolved. The Ministry of Labour, on the other hand, to this extent that we have provided, therefore, compensation to employers for workers at 3.250,00 kn per worker as support for the preservation of jobs until yesterday received 70 000 requests for 420 000 workers. And yesterday 400 million kunas were already paid for about 123,000 workers and 40,000 employers. Measures by the Ministry of Regional Development, Ministry of Economy, Tourism, Agriculture, Sea, Transport, Culture are also being implemented. But as we said, in front of HS 20 days ago, we said that we would calibrate our measures depending on the development of the situation. And we have therefore decided, by following the uncertainty we share with other countries of Europe and the world, to come out with another package, to strengthen the March measures. Raise the fee from 3.250,00 kn to 4,000.00 kn, take over the burden of the state of giving i.e. contribute to this particular case. We made a decision that, or those who will fall in income between 20 and 50% compared to last year, we made it possible to postpone them, and that is to say, unscathed and costless, and those whose income falls from 50 to 100%, there are those who can't work at all right now, to free them from taxes entirely, both on profit and income. All those companies, so up to 93% of the number of companies that have revenue of 7.5 million kuna, are covered by this measure, the large ones will be released proportionally if they have a fall of income between 50 and 100%. We also decided that paying value added tax can be delayed until the issued bills are charged, but that does not mean that we are exempt from paying the VAT obligation. The deadline for the submission of the annual financial reports has been moved to 30 June and the obligation to pay FINA's fee is lifted. As far as state expenditure is concerned, we've been working on this for a few weeks now, all the ministries, all the users of the state budget, working on spending cuts, savings, we're going to start talking to social partners about the new situation we're in. Once again, especially for our pensioners, however this situation develops, pensions will not be touched, not for March, not for April, not for May, not for June. For pensions, we'll always find the means to make sure there's no dilemmas. You will see in this debate today and on Monday what we intend to do for Croatian agriculture, for Croatian peasants, for the purchase of surpluses in small milkers, we do not want to see this fall, but the state will stop there and buy everything that is surplus. We also go with support for plant production, the livestock sector, the Ministry of Economy is going with the programme of micro small loans for rural development, the new COVID-19 loan for crafts, the amount of loans of 750,000.00 kn with an interest rate of 0.25 beginning of 12 months, the payment deadline of 5.g. We're going to change some of the laws for the sake of the operational responsibility of the M.O.P. We're going with a package of laws in tourism. More Minister Capelli will talk about it. We have a very good intention here to make a step towards the sector that currently suffers the most. It is important that we know that we will provide a liquidity of 600 million kuna for tourism. The measures we are taking were taken even before yesterday the European Commission made almost the same effort for the whole EU. Their package applies precisely to ensuring jobs, employment, support for the economy, flexibility in the use of European funds, reallocation, even for the first time without a precedent in order to abolish the component of national funding. Everything we do to send a message of solidarity, solidarity to everyone in Croatian society under these extraordinary circumstances. You saw that one of the credit rating agencies left an RH investment credit rating yesterday, but the outlook from the positive turned it into stable. So this is the first message of those who follow the consequences of this crisis on the Republic of Croatia. I must say for many who have often spoken about whether or not we should go to Europe to help us to join Europe today. It would certainly help us, as the members of the European Union have helped, in 19 of them. However, as we are on our way to the European Course Mechanism 2, we are conducting intensive dialogue with both the European Central Bank and we will seek to reach specific arrangements concerning the support of the Republic of Croatia and its financial stability. With regard to the financing of these measures and new circumstances, we are going in coordination with the CNB, with commercial banks, primarily here on the domestic market, we are also thinking about international financial markets, we are also talking to international financial institutions. We're doing everything we can to get through this crisis. And we, as I said at the outset, will stand behind Croatian workers with this package of measures and stand behind the Croatian economy as we have been responsiblely doing so in our mandate and in this respect we expect your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196037	I thank the Prime Minister and call on the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, the respected Zdravko Maric to take the same word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196038	Thank you, well-respected President HS, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is the introduction of what the Prime Minister has exhibited, I will try only, perhaps a little bit just to detail through the concreteisation of these 3 legislative proposals, but, which are the subject of the debate today, but I think you are aware yourself that yesterday and within the whole package we have brought several conclusions of the Government and some other acts that are on the trail of this package, and in what way to do additional measures, additional efforts, to facilitate all economic operators who are already very much at this moment affected by the corona crisis, but at the same time do what we have said in presenting the first package of measures, that effort to the key specifics within a short time period, and this is the maintenance and preservation of jobs and maintenance and maintenance of the functioning of the entire system of the Republic of Croatia and the state, when I say countries do not mean the apparatus of state, but as well as such and all its institutions, we are well aware of the roles, importance and importance of certain services, from the police and customs, etc. As far as this first measure is concerned, I will repeat once again what is said, therefore the amount of support for the payment of salaries is increasing. I repeat once again, payment support, all entrepreneurs, all employers who can, I think, from this pay phone and all of us together in any way that we publicly act, need to send a message in a way that we certainly appeal to pay as much as they can, or full pay. What's important to say, everything that's been paid so far, you've heard the data, you've heard the figures, for 3 months of those 3.250,00 kn, the tax administration will take a systematic route, and in the meantime, if you have to do the hand-in-hand, make adjustments to make that payment for a good part of the entrepreneurs already made, be free of payment, public contributions in view of the level of support, it does not enter the income tax scissors, but above all I mean contributions. The rise to £4,000 starts from April and will be valid for April and May and the same principle of exemption from public giving will also apply to these payments during April and May. HZZ and the Tax Administration will fully agree their records, data transmission, so what is most important for entrepreneurs, for employees, for citizens in as little administration as possible and all the burden of implementing these measures, of course we take on ourselves. I think you're also clear and recognizable that this 4,000,00 kn is the height of the basic, basic deduction that you voted on our proposal and came into force from 1.1 this year. The second measure concerns public administrations again, linked but also unrelated to this first measure, and it relates to the release completely or partially, and the postponement of payment of public fees to entrepreneurs depending on how much and how they are affected by the coronary crisis. So, as we said, in the first round, the 20% threshold for the qualification of entrepreneurs or taxpayers for deferral measures and unambiguous payment is now increasing to 50% in terms where it is possible to qualify for full or partial release. All those taxpayers whose annual income or turnover is up to 7.5 million kuna will be fully exempt from paying direct taxes, income, profits and contributions. Of course, I repeat again on the condition that their decline in income over the next 3 months, or April, May and June, compared to the same period last year, is over 50%. For those who have an annual turnover of over 7.5 million, this release will be proportionally achieved by a downturn of over 50%, the remaining part is also subject to a deferral and unambiguous payment. Which in translation when we actually sum up means that in the coming months we can expect a very small inflow of any direct taxes, income, contributions and profits in the state register. Closely related to this measure is, of course, our proposal measures, and it is also an integral part of the amendments to the General Tax Law which would then, of course, be concrete and translated into a rule signed by the Minister of Finance, but at the same time of course, I will explain and present to you all our thoughts so far and not be as in the first case any unknowns. Therefore, this is a matter of value added tax, as the main and key not only of the original income of the state budget but also of this main representative, so-called. indirect or indirect defeats. You know very well that the Republic of Croatia has taken advantage of the possibility that certain provisions of the directive give for a certain category of entrepreneurs, which are again at the same threshold as those up to 7.5 million kuna in the last round of tax reform, to allow them also to have the right to pay value added tax at the price of the invoice, or as some say in the invoice. Statistics, just to tell you in short lines so far says that out of 153.217 value added tax taxpayers, 60,014 have decided, or they go and charge VAT on the paid realisation, so on the basis of all the bills charged and all the bills paid. The remaining number of 93,203 accounts for VAT on invoices issued, which means that in that month the obligation is calculated on the basis of all invoices issued and all receipts received, regardless of whether they have charged or not. A large number of taxpayers obviously had the option, but it was not as such chosen. In the first round of changes, or in the first round of measures for the economy, we have opened the door for this number of remaining up to 7.5 million kunas of annual traffic. We will see, of course, the statistics she may not be so relevant at this point, but it is important that we spread such news and such information among entrepreneurs. And now, in this second circle, we open up the possibility for everyone, everyone. And here I must say once again, so this is something that is contrary to the basic principles of the value added tax system as well as certain directives that prescribe it that the Republic of Croatia and all EU member states have for more than two decades. But most importantly, the method of reckoning as such and all the part that will lead to this implementation will be carefully defined, of course, again and again, as with the first measures, to take a good part of this administration on ourselves, to relieve, to facilitate. However, what is important is the key point, what is not charged goes on about the postponement, what is charged cannot go on delaying the value added tax, regardless of the individual business entity is a obligor, it is not their income but the income of the state budget because ultimately the tax burden is borne by someone third. And now that we're saying that, let me just point out that the principle of this expansion is also being introduced for value added tax on imports. You also know that until now it has been worth the provision in general for machines and equipment only, we are now expanding the coverage of everything, just as we are expanding the coverage and thanks to all the people of good faith who in the past period, because of the COVID, which due to the earthquake in the city of Zagreb donated equipment and various other supplies, so that we will also include this coverage as such in these changes. But what that kind of sublime of this whole idea that we're talking about right now means when we sum up all these measures, direct taxes, taxes that are for the entrepreneur, the employer, the craftsman, so every taxpayer who carries out some sort of economic activity is a direct cost that goes to his burden. Income tax, tax on profit contributions as explained or fully released, in part we offer the possibility of delaying interest-free payments. Indirect taxes, which I repeat in the final and de facto bear someone's third income from the state budget, and ultimately we also have to apply that principle that, I repeat once again, what has been charged and paid into the state budget, what we are not offering is the possibility to go as such in the delay. And that's the concept we're talking about, and when we mention solidarity and community, I think it's more than evident here. With these measures, we all, together with our economic system, point to one high level of trust and a dose of trust. We are not looking for the same feedback, but at the same time in these circumstances without an equal level or at least the same level of trust in the opposite direction by the economy, it is hardly possible to build any further steps and exit from this whole crisis and that is what is most important. The government will, of course, continue to think, first of all, focus now at this point on implementing these measures because it is also important. Of course, after today's debate, I hope that after the vote, the real job is only then to move it forward. You have now heard the figures and effects of the measures so far, we are talking about over 65,000 entrepreneurs, over 400,000 people who are already users of the existing measures that we have presented, we hope that these measures will also contribute to such indicators and these results and ultimately do what we all want or want in these circumstances where practically health and some economic goals are in good proportion to cohesion. However, health and human lives are first and we in the economic part must give our pain, all who can in any way contribute to economic activity, to the creation of additional and new values, we must do so in the form of solidarity for all those whose work and business is disabled for various reasons, but above all in order to meet what is our primary priority of health and human lives. I repeat again, everything we can pass on and submit to ourselves we will do, again apostrophe to this administration, so the HZZ system and the IRS and the IRS, and according to the new FIN, which has created a web portal, a web interface that will be a unique place for application to measures that concern both the credit obligations of citizens and entrepreneurs and also the demand. So far, we have recorded over 1,400 requests for new loans from business entities for liquidity, which is what we were talking about in the first round and I am going to be apostrophe now. It is that effect that we are not able to fully assess fiscally in terms of the financial effect, because it is difficult to assume how much demand there will be for such loans. However, the idea is to make such loans available is that it is now extremely important to ensure the functioning of business entities, their liquidity in order not to really come to what we often use and exclusively use the notion of liquidity, but not to get to that even worse scenario, which is the liquidity crisis, not just liquidity. And that is what we intend to do through our part of the development banks, so HBOR and HAMAG, development and guarantee schemes, their participation in total loans, give incentives to both commercial banks to intensify this activity. So, crafts means payouts, payments to suppliers to some others, but means continuing this life of these business entities during the duration of what in all these acts that are standing before you, which are so-called. special circumstances. One of the laws is also the Accounting Act, very short. Therefore, the deadline for the application and submission of annual financial reports from 30.4. to 30.6. and all corresponding forms shall be moved, as well as the calculation of the annual profit tax. One of the 3 laws is also the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, which among other things regulates certain things on budgetary categories, among other things, you heard them just before and from the words of the Prime Minister, so for all these measures and for the functioning of the State we will need a much greater amount of funds than is original, I will call them in the peacetime circumstances before the Coronavirus when we were doing the budget and when we did the State Budget Implementation Act 2020, planned. In the next 3 months, in terms of state functioning, again I say, not the apparatus that some consider, but the overall functioning of a country that involves the payment of pensions, the payment of social benefits and the payment of various incentives, I don't know in agriculture if we can't ignore that part under these circumstances either. All that we can drive into economic activity we need to do, but also taking into account and say these measures, the implementation of these measures, the fact that a certain burden, at least this liquidated one, took over for you HZZOs or local self-governments. The needs of the state are between, according to our estimates, between 42 billion and 45 billion kuna. Moreover, some 20 billion kunas will also need to be provided for the achievement of some commitments from the previous periods. So we are talking about large amounts, and therefore, among other things, in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, we propose such a provision that would enable, naturally, all of these challenges to be met. We've already activated the domestic market. There is still room on the domestic market, and I am sure that many of you will give specific suggestions and suggestions. We are also looking at the international scene, where markets began to open after a certain period of imprisonment. What are the conditions? What's the position of the Republic of Croatia? Personally, I still think it's good. Of course, the conditions are not only for the Republic of Croatia but are getting worse, but this is also one source, as well as all multilateral financial institutions that we are also taking into account, as well as, of course, the programmes we are monitoring, which are developing at EU level, or the European Commission is leading the process. In any case, this is a package of measures like when we said for the first time that we will not stop at this to revive our economy, especially that part of domestic demand you can expect and that the following packages or circles or measures will primarily be directed not only at the economy and entrepreneurship, but also at citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196039	I would also like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance. Now let's go to the replicas, the first replicas will be sent to the Prime Minister, the first respected colleague, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196040	Mr. Prime Minister, what we said and suggested when it was the first package of measures, a write-off, and not a delay, I see that you accepted it and that these are the measures that everyone welcomes. However, I would ask you and you mentioned the Croatian village, Croatian peasants, Croatian agriculture. We know it was two years ago. The agricultural land law that we have unprocessed 790,000 hectares, of which is the state 400,000 hectares, and in 2.g. There is absolutely nothing divided between our peasants because the law has certain problems. And I made a bill of law, if you don't, then some minister finally wakes up out of her sleep and starts assigning land to a Croatian peasant. It's a key self-sufficiency. I hope when I spoke favorably of this, then you said it was my footings, my import lobby, and so on. And I hope that you too will change the paradigm, I guess it will be a paradigm to work Croatian because the country is freedom, without a country unworked there is no future.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196041	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196042	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Bulj. She will be the Minister of Agriculture here on Monday with the bill, so she will explain to you the whole package of measures relating to agriculture as I said, not only to go with the amendment of the basic law but also to the measure relating to surpluses in small milkers, to support and those dealing with plant production and livestock, and we are making sure that we buy everything that our fishermen are hunting or growing at this point, so that it is used in a whole way. This is an opportunity to further place emphasis on Croatian agricultural production since no one can safely assume at this time how long this crisis will last. And you saw yesterday that we made it quite clear that all public authorities, therefore, health institutions and police and military, for example, and will stay at the public procurement process for 60% of the purchases.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196043	Thank you. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196044	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. These measures are primarily aimed at helping the economy. However, the economy of the Republic of Croatia will be difficult to operate if, in this part, still operational workers cannot come to work. Yesterday and today we are witnessing a major problem with issuing passes, precisely for going to work for communication between individual units of local self-government. Of course, it should be commended to the intensity that the passes are being issued electronically, of course it should be commended to the intensity that all passes are centralized in one place, but it seems to us based on the problems that arise from both local self-government units and from citizens on the ground that the deadline left for issuing passes is too short. So I ask you, will you extend that deadline? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196045	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196046	I'm glad that you, too, Agent Grbin, as well as Representative Bulj, are praising the government's measures. Minister Malenica and all those in charge can say so freely to the various aspects of the e-Citizen system immediately resorted to the making of e-passes, solving these narrow throats that were identified yesterday. If necessary, we will also revise that deadline, the whole concept of civil protection activities. To repeat again, it is based on the recommendations of the epidemiologist. So there is no political volunteerism, there is no arbitrational behaviour of the authorities or headquarters, there is only one key task, which is to preserve the health of Croatian citizens. And that's why I repeat what I said in the introduction, looking at data in other countries, looking at the mortality rate of this measure has so far achieved results.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196047	Comrade Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196048	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, life will be after the crown and after the epidemic. What I'd like to hear from you is one question, how you'll keep state finances. In fact, you will now pump into the economy over 40 billion kuna. The economy will recover. Have you thought about the idea of that asset that you gave large companies to turn it into state co-ownership, that one day when these companies put in place again to sell those shares and then return some of the funds invested? It clearly does not refer to micro-entrepreneurs, craftsmen, small companies but you will give funds to both large companies and what should be clear to everyone that the funds that are now being invested should have a way to get them back when the situation is better, and it will certainly be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196049	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196050	Thank you very much, Mrsic, I think we are all aware that the measures we have taken are, firstly treasonous, secondly timely, thirdly preparing our economy, so employers of those who have an entrepreneurial spirit and idea for a moment after the crisis or at least when they are somewhat immersed and when they are gradually reactivated wider economic activities. And secondly, what is most important, so what is far more important is that these measures are primarily aimed at preserving jobs. They're targeting the workers. These fees go to keep people in companies as far as possible. There are also big ones who work, who have no income. What we want at this point is to do step three, and the third step is how to start an economy after the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196051	Thank you. Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196052	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, I'm sure we can call this set of measures April 1 0 and will certainly need some set of measures called April 2 0. What are we talking about? We're interested in everyone when this accident and this silent crown pass that we don't have a burnt country behind it. And it's absolutely good that you've listened to the opposition and that we have this set of measures that relate to making it easier for people to actually save jobs. But what is quite important will also be that after the crown we have associations that will continue to work, that we have a cultural sector that will continue to work. I'm aware we're not Germany. You must know what Germany did and the way it helped. I'm wondering if you're thinking about whether or not the restrictions that are to be tied together, especially those associations that will be involved in social care, I would like to stress that shelter for women victims of the settlement to be in some set. measure 2 0 and make a certain shift and a certain benefit there. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196053	Thank you, colleague Dark Taritash. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196054	Thank you very much, Mrak Taritaš, when it comes to these associations you mentioned, we will surely find ways to enable them to function and their work. As for the aspect of culture, I see that you mentioned it today, and you mentioned these days, I talked to Minister Obuljan, and we will look for solutions for this sector, and given the specificities, we have both fees and free artists, etc., they may have a slightly more specific status but they certainly deserve a way to overcome this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196055	Now it's up to the esteemed colleague of the Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196056	Dear Mr. President, under the circumstances, I survived this earthquake in Zagreb and I think that with all the institutions you have praised, your praise and our praise deserve and all the volunteers starting from groups of citizens to alpinists, to statisticians of every age who are very active in the recovery of earthquakes. Secondly, as far as pensioners and this protection are concerned, I am pleased, but I will talk about it on behalf of the club and explain why it is my opinion as well, and what I would ask you to explain to me, or explain it to the entire Croatian public, all the time we are talking about protecting jobs with entrepreneurs. It's not just business entrepreneurs who hire, hire a lot of other employers. And we're part of parties, associations and all of someone's employers. And there's this reason why someone can't come to work because they live 20 miles away, so please be specific.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196057	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196058	So you've heard the esteemed representative of the Hrelja and on the occasion of presenting the first package and this second, covering these measures the fact that 400 million kunas were already paid yesterday tell you how appropriate and affected they were. And once again, we didn't even say in our first presentation that we had some big dilemma between a delay and forgiveness. This is one thesis which sought to impose, as the thesis in Croatian politics is imposed, and in this communication space of conflict between private and public, these are false dilemmas in this crisis, both of which are false dilemmas. We're very real here and with a package like this, we're doing what's important to us right now. Our strategy is to have time now for the next steps, the next steps must be how to re-launch the economy and fast when this crisis is sinking. It's our basic task and we'll work on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196059	Thank you. Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196060	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister. The last time you represented these measures, I asked the same replica about the moratories, so now I'm very interested in both citizens and employers when banks give moratories whether they actually charge interest or not, sometimes that interest can be 50% of the annuity, especially if they're going to charge interest again later on, then it's not really help. And I'm curious, I know that we need to find money for this whole thing, and I understand that you said yesterday at the government and that you referred to the ministers for all the cuts just what is necessary, but hopefully already when we're not going to go against the logic that we're giving more work and less subsidising, we're paying some more jobs that won't apply to extra-accounters, that at least they're starting that part of the investment, that they're going to continue and that they're hiring our employers who then de facto will benefit less from these measures and there's no reason and yet we're going to get some other added value after all that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196061	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196062	Thank you very much. Mr. Curaj, as far as these loans and moratories are concerned, there is no compensation after the deadlines for reprogramming have passed, so this agreement has been reached and here is Minister Maric talking to all banks and they were quite responsible and I think we found a very fast common language. As for savings and investment, therefore a very important detail, we, when we talk about savings cuts, are then talking about all those expenditures that are not necessary, so we will distinguish that from the purpose of investments which, in this situation, bear and move the economy and realise ultimately and the state budget on various individual income operations. Therefore, it is not exclusively mutually, however, but all these investments, all of the investment by extra- budget users must be meaningful. We're not going to let anything be funded right now, just what's highly meaningful and useful under these circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196063	Comrade Bilek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196064	Thank you very much. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, Honored Vice President, Parliament Speaker, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's an interest in not a few things, first of all, I want to really praise the government's intensities especially in this second round towards entrepreneurship, according to the continuation of all economic activities so that we can feel this crisis as little as possible here. I'm only interested in one thing, it's about Croatia's waters whether or not there is a plan here because entrepreneurs pay, but also our citizens all in turn, is there a possibility there too? Furthermore, will the signed contracts with the ministries and other foundations and decisions of yesterday's government be respected? And the third thing, as regards the employees of the associations, do they have the right to these compensations regarding support for co-financing of salaries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196065	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196066	Thank you very much, Mr. Bilek. As regards all aspects of those contracts that have been signed, so you mentioned Croatian waters, everything that is signed and useful, and these are huge projects a whole series of European funds and European projects are used for agglomerations so for a water utility economy that are particularly important for raising the quality of life in certain Croatian counties and cities, this process will continue, however. We have signals from the European Commission that they want all the funds to be used, everything that is not allocated by which it can be used flexiblely for other projects, especially to combat this crisis and epidemic. As far as giving is concerned, we also had through the National Reform Programme a whole plan relating to the reduction of non-taxable duties and parafiscal burdens, we had a debate on it, certain savings were prepared. We need to reach a consensus through the month of April and see what activities will not stop if we cut something hard.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196067	Thank you. Comrade Chikotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196068	The Honorable President of the Croatian Government. Given that you stress the importance of economic activity and since you say it is extremely important that this economic activity continues and that it is important that we be flexible in using eu funds, we get such signals from the European Commission, I must say that I am amazed by your two decisions, decisions by the Government that say that all public calls and all acquisitions from all sources of funding will be suspended, so it stands in the Government's decision and says that only those expenditures will remain and will be focused on the basic and necessary functioning of individual bodies. So I'm asking you to clear that up. I also don't understand why the same decision states that the Minister of Finance will be given the opportunity to be an arbiter and that every user will contact him, which means that the Minister of Finance is actually above government decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196069	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196070	There is no minister above government decisions, you have very clearly explained it in an explanation, so what is the point in a crisis like this where we have to raise funds in a way that we shouldn't have done or had to. So at this point, we've already raised funds rather than commercial banks in Croatia, we're going to raise funds like I said in the international financial markets, we're going to get them out of international financial institutions, we're going to use what we get from European funds, and we're going to re-design in this crisis for what's important to us, and as far as those projects go, they're going to go with the proper control they're going to have, either the competent ministry as an implementing body, whether the Ministry of Regional Development, whether the Ministry of Finance, given the overall state of public finances in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196071	Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196072	Dear Prime Minister, it is a good thing that you have taken more serious measures to preserve employment, however, it is a bad thing that you plan to finance them from credit instead of direct emissions from the central bank that would not be burdened with debt and interest, and in this way you will in fact turn the rope of salvation into a noose around the neck of the Croatian state and people in the long term. However, I would like to ask you, about 150 thousand people who are unemployed, many of whom have no right to any remuneration from the Stock Exchange. I wonder if the Croatian state and these people will be given some means because they too have to live on something? The more many of them planned their jobs now in the season, and unfortunately without it, the employment remained evident. Did you think of them, too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196073	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196074	Thank you very much, Mr. Pernar. I think we've chosen a good, natural and logical and sustainable way of finding financial resources in these circumstances. As far as your second question is concerned, you know that we were practically up to a few months ago until, say, that was still half season or season last year on the lowest numbers ever in Croatia and now I think that we are somewhere over 140 thousand in this situation that we have, which is basically very good at the numbers we had a few years ago. So our policy was that all those who wanted to work, and before this crisis in Croatia could, absolutely, be able to find the job that everyone wanted. A series of measures we took through the Ministry of Labour, from measure to career, from desire, from Employment, there were so many, from self-employment, a series of measures that enabled people to start a business. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] The Minister of Labour will also take care of these people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196075	Thank you. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196076	Your Honor, Prime Minister. Croatian sovereigns welcome these measures and I will personally vote for this package of measures, I think they are good. However, here I must express regret that these measures did not work out 15 days ago when we warned that it should go, be late and it happened that we have thousands and thousands of newly employed workers at the Employment Office. If it were 15 days ago, I know that the objective circumstances are what they are, but if they were, today they wouldn't have these thousands of unemployed and the question is, how are you going to treat these people, would those employers who fired people out of fear, out of uncertainty, many and unwarranted, that we understand each other, how are you going to treat them? And the second question is about non-taxable duties, or parafiscal burdens that there are 239, if I am not mistaken. Will there be any reduction, will this make Croatia's entrepreneurship easier by this difficult situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196077	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196078	Thank you very much, Agent Zekanovic. I'm glad you support the measures. As far as your questions concerning parafiscal intrusions and non-taxable givings are concerned, I just answered that, we explained that at the press conference at the end of the line. There are many more of them, there are all 448 of them, all of them a working group co-ordinated by the Ministry of Economy for a long time under the National Reform Programme. The reductions were prepared, so maybe it's important for the Croatian public to know, of all the 448, there are about 20 of them, which is 7.8 billion kuna for you, and all of this remains somewhere around 8.7, I think. So these 20 are the most important. However, these 20 finance certain activities. And it's not something you can just break over your knee and say it now doesn't exist because then you don't have the means for certain activities, for example, Croatian waters. So we're working on a solution. which will enable both. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196079	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196080	Mr. Prime Minister. On 14th and 16th03, we had a joint meeting in the government, and I memorized your sentence, where you called for community, transparency, and you said, as we know, you will know. Twenty-four hours later, a meeting was held in the government that we don't know about, and you know it, and the public doesn't know about the meeting with the editors-in-chief of most of the media, those who discovered the affairs are left out, but it doesn't matter. I think it would be good for you to inform us about this meeting and especially about the fact that it has gone through the media, which is that one member of the government has promised media and aid in the form of advertising by public companies, therefore, it reminds me overwhelmingly of some events from the past, I hope it is not that intensity, so I ask you to explain to us what this is about and that the public knows what it is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196081	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196082	Dear Representative Bauk, I have the impression that you weren't at that meeting so that even if you were saying what you're saying, you're not speaking on the basis of the facts and speaking at that meeting, you're gleaning someone's media speculation. It is your right, but it is not good for you to speak as a representative in the Croatian Parliament something that is not true. The purpose of that meeting, where almost 30 people were at the meeting, where they were all key editors and editors and journals and weeklys and televisions and radios, so they were very targeted, was not a secret meeting, was held, I don't know, in the morning, where we explained to them at that moment the seriousness of the crisis in the same way we explained to you, the representatives of the opposition at that meeting, exactly with the same logic that we know, will know the public. No speeches about any subsidies or anything that you've tried to insinuate here, no words or will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196083	Thank you. Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196084	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister, so here's what colleagues say there were great skeptics about how much the government would do and how much it did in that short time when it was actually, the first moment was the coronary virus, and then unfortunately this earthquake. But what the government was doing from the beginning, which was doing to record the situation, that it should have seen its possibilities, and that it could actually project what it could offer at that moment, but also then we said that the government would work at all other stages. It is very important that this package of measures, which means a great deal to both citizens and entrepreneurs, and to the public as well. What is still to be said is that this government, unlike those in times of crisis, has made economic sense and is also making sense of income to local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196085	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196086	Thank you very much, respected representative Peric that is correct, we have given two messages to our partners at the level of units of local self-government. The first thing they will not get at this time is the fact that a number of income tax entrepreneurs are being released, so one of their incomes is based on our reforms and the method of funding units of local self-government that has left all more funding for projects for their activities, that we will compensate them from the state budget. However, what we also said is that we expect them under these circumstances and responsibility and solidarity and savings and a contribution to resolving the current situation in which we are all together. So this solidarity involves both activities and counties and cities and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196087	Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196088	The Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, therefore, as you said in the presentation of this measure, is also aimed at preserving jobs and the liquidity of the business sector. We had problems before this crisis, it wasn't exactly a great situation, and a large number of people who left the country witnessed it, and a strike of educators, on the other hand, we also had those people who wanted to earn extra kuna on the labour market, which are students who worked through student service, pensioners who worked extra with pensions. So all these people had problems. It is acceptable for me that these measures cannot be included, but I am asking you specifically now. When the government adopts measures that will help every citizen of the Republic of Croatia in terms of solidarity, as you said, in terms of its credit obligations, I am talking about obligations, credit obligations of citizens. Therefore, all those who are now at the Employment Service who will not be able to use self-employment measures or will lose the compensation they are now using to serve their obligations to directors and ultimately loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196089	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196090	Dear Representative Žagar, I would just like to remind you that in the term of this government achieved healthy growth, GDP growth of almost 3%, so 2.9% before this crisis, that we reduced the debt, that the budget was not only balanced but was in more cases in the term of our government and the surplus, that we returned Croatia to an investment credit rating, that we increased the employment that was higher by the number of insurance companies than it was 30 years ago when we had 700,000 more people, that we had record tourist seasons and that what I told my colleague, whoever wanted and worked, could have found a job in the Republic. That's one message. The second message is that the strike of educators in our mandate, 18.3% was the rise of public and state sector salaries, and the enlightener 23.5%, that never happened. So this context has nothing to do with what we're doing right now, these are measures to get out of the crisis and they're comprehensive. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196091	Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196092	Dear Prime Minister, isn't it unusual for you to let the green markets not work, and the other day you let the shops around the green markets work, on the other hand the shopping malls work, and there the virus spreads far better, so I appeal on behalf of all the peasants, the OPG, let it go already tomorrow because logically that there is far less chance of infection in the open space, if it should be the monks, if it should be people selling in gloves, masks, our people already have a culture of protection. Therefore, please do so because imports from Italy into the 1,000s are coming, thus the virus. On the other hand comes the greatest Christian holiday of Easter. Buy all market surpluses from small producers, from peasants and through the Red Cross, so Red Cross and other meanings to all institutions that are very much needed in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196093	Thank you, well-respected representative Lovrinović, unlike Mr. Bauk, who talks about meetings he was not aware of, you were at meetings with our Civil Protection Centre, which currently refers to markets and green markets, which also refers to the purchase of everything we can buy from the Croatian OPGs, there must not be any excess food at this time, let alone food that will fail whether it is done by the state, whether they pick up the trade chains and place it on the market, so that's one. But what we're going to do in the context of the market is we're going to ask the epidemiologist for very precise instructions on how when it comes to that step we make a step to make sure. Because any sudden drop in measures can cause a greater infection, the disease of our fellow citizens, and then death. We need to be extremely careful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196094	Comrade Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196095	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, why have you decided that the decisions that will have a very big impact on the state budget, perhaps the largest, because the decision on 4,000, decisions concerning forgiveness or suspension, or delaying the payment of certain taxes, are to be made by a conclusion, rather than by Parliament, in the same way that we will make these amendments to the law. Namely, one of the victims of the crown is both democracy and, as you have seen, it is thought and said that Hungary is the first crown victim of democracy. And in these moments, it's very important to take care of it, and that's why it's important that we sit here and discuss in front of the public these measures that you see people mostly support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196096	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196097	Thank you very much. As far as democracy is concerned, I think that we are operating in these conditions right now here in this building, not because we have an epidemic of the coronary virus but because of an earthquake that caused material damage in the Croatian Parliament, this is a matter of security more than an epidemic. Secondly, there is no single element in Croatia that could be called about having a threat to democracy, although the government normally works, the Croatian Parliament normally works, we make decisions. So that conclusion goes because otherwise it is the jurisdiction of the HZZ which is under the Ministry of Labour to prescribe the amount of these fees, so it is not the point now that we want to bring it as an executive power without communicating in the Parliament at the end that is why I am here today, which is why Vice President Maric is here to discuss the whole. And what we wanted was to reduce uncertainty and fear, these are messages of trust. So this amount of 4,000 kuna is a tax write-off and giving them a signal of trust to everyone in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196098	Thank you. Now we're going to the replicas sent to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. I thank the Prime Minister. We have four replicas so you can just prepare yourself for colleagues Batinić, Škibola, Daus and Shuker. My colleague Batinić is on his way first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196099	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, Deputy Minister of Finance. One question. In fact, in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, you provided for an unambiguous borrowing, which is certainly commendable for the initiative. Now I'm curious, that's the part that's going to get less local, regional self-government plus institutions, the possibility of unscathed borrowing to the amount of less tax revenue and income cuts, if I understand that correctly. The law on the financing of local self-government provides for a large number of local self-government and fiscal balancing. Is this about unambiguous borrowing plus even fiscal balancing for those units of local self-government that receive these additional funds? That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196100	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196101	Thank you very much. So this unambiguous loan or loan was introduced in that first round of measures, given that at that time we are only talking about the liquid effect, we are now practically talking about the loss of income both the state budget and local units, depending on the requirements, the number of requirements and all the numerical indicators that will follow after all these strong measures. As we have not ignored local self-government in any of our rounds of tax changes so far, you know that we are one of the laws and we have proposed that through the amendments to the Finance Act, full income tax revenue is granted to local self-government, so we will not now. At the same time, however, it is also decided to say today in some way to promise and take the obligation of all possible measures of this or that kind of compensation for liquidity loss or similar is very difficult because, as you have seen, some of the representatives were respected and referred to and to the conclusions of the government that we made yesterday, we give a strong message and concrete measures on our part. But the same strong appeal goes to public enterprises and local self-government for action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196102	Thank you. Here you go, pal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196103	Thank you, President of the Parliament. The Honorable Ministers of Finance. I'm interested in whether you're going to help the sailors and that the measures apply to the seamen because we know that they can't go on board right now, many of them are stuck on ships, and the law that applies to them is that if they don't go sailing in a year, then if they're not sailing 183 days, they have to pay certain taxes, taxes, so I'm interested in whether or not you've thought about them within these measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196104	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196105	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It is visible from these measures, of course, to focus on domestic economy and domestic business entities or citizens, but it is also not intended to ignore anyone. At the moment that we have done something concrete, or in terms of this, we have foreseen certain specific interests about them, of course, we will discuss these specific cases as well. The same question is whether the sailor is an employee of some domestic company or some international firm, just like anyone else who works on some job abroad. In any case, all such individual cases or isolated in relation to horizontal approach as so far, of course we will be willing to consider and see how and how to act is not the idea of turning back to anyone in one way or another in these circumstances. However, as we've all said many times already in one way or another, if not so far, then surely affected by a virus coronary defect, in terms of economical, I don't mean health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196106	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196107	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. The IDS welcomes these measures, we are pleased to find them correct and concrete that they were proposed, they are on the trail almost entirely of what IDS was talking about 15 days ago. I'm just interested in your opinion, and might that be better, in part or in full release of certain tax duties, 20 to 50 or over 50%, is that sample from three months of April to June enough, or would it be fairer to avoid any manipulations and calculations from 49 to 51% is little to be a sample throughout the year, and until then, a moratorium on payment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196108	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196109	Thank you, Your Honor, for your support and for your constructive contribution to the debate in the first round of our debates, and here we are now. The measure is as such an intention of activity itself and measures more than clear. Now the very way of implementation, definitions and criteria and everything about these shades can always be discussed. However, I think it is very clear to all of us that the state administration has done a very good job, and that is that all these criteria that we have prescribed are extremely understandable and simple and passing. In some circumstances, however, you have to underline a line somewhere and a line somewhere. After all, even employers have suggested you have to put some sort of so-called. Treshvol, some limit before and after, or in one way or another. I wish I could say that in three months this would be enough, no one happier than me, no more than you, no more than all of us present, nor, I would say, and wider than this very hall. But as we said for the first time, depending on the development of the situation if there is any need and we will react further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196110	Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196111	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President and Minister, both you and the Prime Minister when you presented these first measures, you said that the government would react to the need and you simply confirmed what you said. However, I believe that certain things that the government is taking on would require a more financial emphasis and these 4,000.00 are not actually 4,000.00, but 5.820,00, because the government will take over the cost of pension and health care and that will be on the budget's spending side. Then you have to say it ultimately costs so much and so much to make it clear. The second thing that needs to be pointed out here is the very responsibility of all stakeholders in this process. As they point out at headquarters every day, so in this economic area too, you need to highlight that responsibility and I'm glad you're in art. 1. The General Tax Law in St. 6 made it clear what would happen to those who jumped on a train that did not belong to them. Those who want to withdraw benefits, and they don't, because this money just needs to be left to those who are most needed at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196112	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196113	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Both notes are in place. I'll start with this other one. I think in these circumstances, I also said this in the first round of debate, certainly and circumstances as well as timelines and all circumstances that are related to everything, do not allow surgically precise measures thought out to the smallest possible detail, but we are doing our best to really try to predict everything more possible at this point, not at this particular point in time. However, financial, fiscal and any other discipline must exist and this is also one clear message that these intentions and measures are for real and good entrepreneurs. If there's gonna be anyone on the road who's gonna get on the train, we'll talk about it later. In particular, as far as this measure is concerned, 4,000,00 you're right about the contributions of 5,825,00. What is most important is that we have managed to do so today before you and present the measure that and what has been paid so far will also be taken over to the burden of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196114	Thank you. I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. Now we're going to the debate, I got a signal that a colleague of mine called Zekanovic is asking for a break. In violation of the Rules of Procedure, here's my colleague Zekanovic for just a second, here's my colleague, Bauk. [[Injury of the Rules of Procedure]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196115	Mr. President, the officer has been injured. In 235, which you and I know about the inability to replicate MPs, but the violation of the Rules of Procedure requires in a formal sense that I may then request a session of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System to define the way in which we work in such conditions so that we no longer argue at the session by calling the representatives of the matches, etc., and in that sense I declare that I will also request a session of the Committee on the Constitution in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196116	Comrade Bauk, so we've defined the rules of conduct, they're not as common as they are because we have the coronary virus as a threat and we've put chairs here so that all MPs are protected. So, now in these circumstances, to say that I hurt the Rules of Procedure because there is no replica, we agreed earlier that two representatives from each club participate in the debate, I think it's very incorrect because then we can say that all MPs can be in the assembly today, and they're not, so we agreed because they're extraordinary conditions. So please accept this one. As far as the matchmakers are concerned, I said they're acting like a matchmaker, I didn't call anybody, but I think if we agree on the rules of the game, then someone comes and tries to trick me and I don't think that's right. My fellow coat of arms, here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196117	Your Honor, Mr. President, an officer has been injured. 233 and 234 and 235. Rules of Procedure. The deal's a deal. And the agreement between colleagues and colleagues is mostly respected. But the deal is not rules. The rules are in the Rules of Procedure on the work of HS. The Rules of Procedure on the work of HS we are obliged to stick to. If we want to translate the agreement into something binding, we have a provision. 234. The Rules of Procedure on the work of HS, then we apply it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196118	I said what I had, so I don't want to say it again. Comrade Zekanovic, please take a break. My colleague Bulj is also looking for a break. As far as I know, you're still in the same club with a colleague, Zekanovic, so you can't have two breaks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196119	I'm looking for a five-minute break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to further consult on this set of laws. Namely, once again I must warn and ask whether we, or the Croatian Government, were blind when she watched for several months the coronary crisis coming from the far east towards Europe? The Republic of Croatia has not been the only one acting indifferently, I would dare say the whole of Europe, the whole EU has been waiting for the crown crisis to happen. Unfortunately, it was, it was so, not all that could be done in good time. Some measures have been taken, but most measures have not been taken. I also asked a question here that was very important, and I didn't get an answer and I'd ask it again. What will happen to all those unemployed, newly unemployed people who got fired because of the fear of the crown crisis, which the employers sent to HZZ and today simply have no income? Here again and this crisis will break over the back of the weakest, so it usually happens, over those who wanted to work seasonally, and they won't be able to work, over the back of those who got fired because employers were scared justifiably or unjustly of this crown crisis. So these are things to talk about and have to be offered a solution. The measures aren't bad. However, I must say that the measures are late, that 15 days ago this set of measures proposed by Croatian sovereigns would not have had 10 thousand newly unemployed at the employment office. So, the whole of Europe, the whole of the EU, but I'm even going to say Western civilization watched the crown crisis come, nothing happened, I must say that I am also from a pay phone in the Croatian Parliament 5. Majors warned the government of the Republic of Croatia that we should prepare ourselves. We are where we are and we must use this crisis to help the Croatian state as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196120	Thank you, the break will be approved. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196121	Thank you very much for asking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to consult on the government's proposal. I'm going to say again at the beginning that MOST independent lists in the first package proposed a write-off, not a delay, this is a little late, but better ever than never and of course we're going to support these measures. However, we must say that this crisis, the crown crisis, has exposed the bad policies implemented by Croatian governments. The policies that we have at this point mean that we have never imported food products again, and today the markets are closed, regardless, here is a question for all of us, which is why the markets are closed, and in the trade chains we can buy where there are more vulnerable and cashiers in the indoor area, which is why the market, me, is unclear, and in these trade chains the foreign, the agricultural products of Italian pomadors, will now have Spanish strawberries, while the example of Vrgorje strawberry now 500 tonnes will have no space to sell its own products. So why can't we at the markets make the measures that the call means our Civil Protection headquarters? For what? What's gonna make those strawberries fall apart? They are now 500, 600 tonnes, and so is dairy production, so all agricultural products and dairy products. It has engulfed Croatia's policies mainly agriculture in unprocessed land, 790,000 hectares in the Republic of Croatia's agricultural land is unprocessed as we import 3 billion euro of harmful products. This is why the import lobby responsible for the damages in Croatia destroyed agriculture has evicted our people from the village, and until the village is at the helm until it's over. Until there is a rich peasant and the village of Croatia will have problems mainly in these crises. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196122	The apartment will be approved. My colleague Ostojić, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196123	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the SDP Club, I am saddening the break because it is very important to warn, and just before my colleague Pusic said so, which is that one of the victims of the virus's crown is also democracy. That can't happen here in the assembly. You, Mr. President, are obliged to respect the Rules of Procedure, and the clubs have agreed to the agreement, and there has never been a word in there that the replicas will be lifted. Obviously, when one thing is allowed, it goes on. It is also the fear that exists in the Croatian public, which is that if we agree and if it becomes a norm it will be a serious problem. Deal and recommendation yes, all right. That's what the crisis headquarters does, but it can't happen that you call MPs and matchmakers, or that they're people who just want to consume what's prescribed by the Rules of Procedure adopted in this assembly. We agreed to these conditions, it's not easy to work here, we stick to 2 here, the SDP has shown constructiveness from the very beginning, we haven't asked it to be according to the number of MPs precisely because we respect the situation we're in. But you must be the first, first defender of democracy and make the most of it. The deal can't be a norm, it's something of a recommendation and don't deny the right that we have under the law and under the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196124	My colleague Ostojić, I don't think you've been here, I asked when my colleague Lovrinović suggested that we discuss 15 minutes per club if we would then accept that provision and that there was no replicating more than 2 per club. And everyone agreed to the coat of arms that was here. And now you call me why. Well, that's amazing, I mean, but what am I supposed to do now? Here's a fellow Pupavac, no, not what you need. No, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, buddy Pupavac. What's wrong with you? ... Kologa Ostojić, we have reached an extended agreement at the presidency that two MPs will participate in the debates and we stick to it and this morning you come now to want everyone to participate with the replicas. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] That was in front of the assembly. We enter the assembly, he suggests that fellow Lovrinovic extend the debate around the clubs. I accept that, and then I say are you ready to have two replicas on behalf of the clubs? Get along with your club. And now you're calling me "Why am I applying it?" Well, because there are extraordinary circumstances and not everything is prescribed then to this Rules of Procedure, but it is a matter of agreement and some elemental correctness between us that we can function at all. Now you call me like I went to cheat on you. And to the colleagues who went in knowing that a deal had been reached and trying to use it so that someone didn't notice it, I said that some act as if they were matchmakers. So I didn't name anyone, but I said that this kind of fraud isn't correct and it's been exposed. Here you go. My fellow Pupavac, I apologize, but here's my colleague Ostojić insists, so I'll give him the right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196125	Injured Rules of Procedure, Article 234, Mr. President, is the usual procedure in the assembly that you cannot deny me the right to harm the Rules of Procedure, that is why I am telling you. The second deal can't be a norm. The third one you agreed at the meeting and the deal that was in the assembly, and the second one here and the third one, don't say that we weren't there, we were out there because there could only be two of us inside. It's not there. agreed never at that meeting [[The incursion of the president: I thank you.]] Present, excuse me... [[Break president: colleague Ostojić, thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196126	Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196127	You can't, I haven't run out of time when you interrupted me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196128	No, you're out of time for five seconds I gave you more than what was planned, that's 30 seconds. Thank you very much. I don't think there's been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, so here's your colleague, Pupovci.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196129	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS advocates' club is looking for a break to confirm once again whether our position and our opinion is that the government and that the Parliament, that the state institutions have done well in protecting three things, protecting people's health and people's lives, protecting the health and sustainability of the economy and protecting the sustainability and health of democracy in Croatia. Those who say Croatia was late, let them take a look when America left. Let them see when the Great Britain is on its way. Those who say that Croatia has possibly applied a bad model, let them see if we have had any dilemmas about the application of medical, sanitary or any other model as some countries had and modified it in the middle of the health crisis. Secondly, as far as the economy is concerned, the tenacity in this case is reasonable. And colleagues who say they suggested something yesterday, which the government today has accepted every honor, but the gradualness in this case is reasonable because too many measures and premature measures in the economy can also be dangerous, as can be dangerous for those who are not on time. So far things are going on time. As far as democracy is concerned, as you once said, it seems to me that the prime minister is in a position to balance between excellence and regularity. If there are things that need to be fixed, as there are some laws, there are amendments tabled here, they are invested by clubs, they are invested by committees, and these amendments should certainly be considered by the Government in the most serious way to preserve that balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196130	The apartment will be approved. Now it's Comrade Sagar's turn, and he's also asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196131	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of HSU, SNAGA, independent representatives, SNAGA and New Policy, I also request a five-minute break in order to agree on government measures to save jobs and liquidity of entrepreneurship. And on the other hand, to once again argue that these measures, although good, do not cover all those aspects that are at stake in the Republic of Croatia at this point. Whether it's about citizens who are in a different social situation, whether they're unemployed citizens, whether they're students, pensioners, or sailors mentioned here by their colleagues. Whether it is other vulnerable groups that are not covered by these measures that are likely to be in danger tomorrow that they cannot service their directors or their loans, we therefore believe that the Government must come out with such measures as soon as possible. The other aspects we want to consider are the processes that are at risk in Croatian society. It is certain that this crisis also affects democratic processes in the Republic of Croatia. We can't close our eyes and say it's not like that. This confirms today's debate here in the assembly where it is actually incomprehensible that we are at all discussing whether or not a representative in HS can speak. A representative in HS can and must speak, that's his job. That's why someone came from their home here, endangering health and those who get there, where they'll come back, and then those who are here. That's why I think you can see it. The second thing we need to take seriously is the position of all of our students who and the teacher, who are doing so in this situation. The distance school and they come, they're actually asking about their testing, their evaluation, their colleges and their national prom. It is urgent that measures should be taken not to, in fact, prevent all those misunderstandings that appear in public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196132	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. All MPs will be able to speak in individual debates, so there is no dispute or dilemma about it. Comrade Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196133	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Democrats to warn of the position of the workers in the crown crisis. In fact, it is commendable that the employers will be paid four thousand kunas to workers, but our employers have inventive methods of keeping some of these funds rather than paying the workers. Instead of the government making an effort and paying the funds directly to the current accounts of workers, it is a little harder, but it is much safer for workers to get what they deserve. Also, there are inventive methods to send workers, instead of waiting, to benefit from part of their vacations and all that is what the government has not responded and what the Ministry of Labour and the pension system has failed to do. We can see that jobs are lost on a daily basis, and many are already lost and all of this confirms that the government's reaction in this area is delayed and has left the situation to the employers, instead of sitting down with the unions and starting a tripartite dialogue at these moments because it is something that will ensure that there are no more privileged and less privileged. The government, together with employers and trade unions, was to sit at a common table, agree on the measures we will be working on in this crisis because these measures would be much better quality and would not lead to what we have today, that workers are currently at risk on the labour market and that employers are protected by these measures. I declare that the government initiates a tripartite dialogue and that a social agreement is reached in Croatia between Governments, trade unions and employers around [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] getting out of the crown crisis. [[Intruder president: Stanka.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196134	The apartment will be approved, thank you. Now it's Stephen Curaj, a colleague on behalf of the CNS, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196135	I thank the Honorable President, I demand a break on behalf of the CNS to discuss both these measures and this emerging situation. First of all, as far as the measures are concerned, we can talk here, but the fact is that these are extraordinary circumstances that require and extraordinary measures, something that no one has ever had a chance to meet before, and something that we can't do over our knees, overnight, and knock our heads off regardless of because there's a lot of things here at stake. First of all, the safety and lives of our citizens, and then what happens later. We also need to think about what will happen later and how life will continue as soon as possible, but we are also thinking about the economy, and that is why it is time to think about the second step now, which later. So it's in that direction that I've been talking about both public procurement and the thresholds and about the state having to generate a job after this crisis and already at a time of crisis because the more work we give for something that we're going to have to do anyway, the more value we're going to have to do, and we didn't just give the money, but we got one more value. As far as working here, I know this is unusual, but I ask all my colleagues, clubs, to put their individual egos aside, I know there are a lot of people who would like to talk about it right now, the deal is what it is, we've all agreed here, and we just might just sit down at the table again, agree something, but I think it's a good thing that we're not burdening our standard way of meeting now the Croatian public when it's least necessary, but again to do what it is and the purpose of this whole thing to do what's best for these citizens. And that's why first at the club level, then and then at the level here I think how good this way of working is and I invite everyone that those who don't really have to take pictures and talk here to give it to colleagues that.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196136	The apartment will be approved. My colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am looking for Stanku on behalf of the HDS, HDSSB and HSLS Club to further consult on the debate on points that are on the agenda, or to manage to collect additional data compared to the measures taken by the government at the time of the crisis which was more significant and less important, given that there are just a few colleagues who were at the time, a good part of them were ministers in that government, today here in the debate on these points of the agenda that our citizens, our entrepreneurs, our employees are waiting to hear what is being discussed here today, which is going to vote, which are the measures that will help them overcome their daily difficulties and this crisis, hear such overlap and this sorting, formalisation and politics. It will be an opportunity for all those colleagues who, in some ways, wish to offend what the Croatian Government is doing in the management of this crisis, and it is estimated that everyone is making very good moves that they may be consulting among themselves a little bit and that in some ways we should approach the continuation of this debate and be as responsible and in the interests of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196138	Thank you. The apartment will be approved. Now it's time for you, dear colleague Ivan Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196139	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I request a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to reaffirm their support for the government once again and to highlight certain matters. Because it's obvious that when you have nothing concrete to object to, it's the easiest thing to say that something is too late. However, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we want to highlight first and foremost the government's responsible and rational behaviour since the start of this crisis. So, the government did not run ad hoc with measures, these measures, the first measures preceded a series of talks, starting with resolution ministers, through the complete financial sector with employers, with unions for one single reason to come to a common position from where to start, because it is not only being considered today in these measures by the government, but also by the Prime Minister and the Vice President and the Vice President are constantly stressing, but also thinking about what will be tomorrow when this stops. And that may be the greatest quality of all this together. So, first of all, responsibility and rationality, because if we don't act this way, if we don't watch how much all the stakeholders of the financial sector can contribute at the moment, and that ultimately, it costs Croatia's citizens and the Croatian economy first and foremost, then this won't be effective. And the logical thing is that the Prime Minister for the same table sat the Minister, the governor of the CNB, the bankers, should include insurance companies and pension funds, take advantage of the possibility from the EU, take advantage of the maximum full potential that we are currently given to help the economy and what is very important that the Prime Minister and vice president emphasized, and it may well have gone a little bit on the side, which is that the next package is being considered, which is to help Croatian citizens who need it most. It only clearly states how rational the government is thinking and how ready it is to react at any moment to complete the measures if the situation so requests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196140	Thank you. I'll give you a break. Let's go now, dear colleague of the Anka Dark Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196141	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the GLAS Club. During our discussion and replicas there, the city of Zagreb shook 2.3 again and shaking it all the time. We would like to see if, through certain amendments to these laws, we can also install the problem of the earthquake or the consequences of the earthquake in the City of Zagreb. The HDZ coalition partner at both state and city level is Mr Bandic Milan, who made it clear that he is in no hurry. Well, it would be good then and clearly say that the state will rebuild its facilities, that the City of Zagreb will restore its facilities and it does not require a special law, but who will renew the citizens of the City of Zagreb for this is the law needed. And if you have decided to leave the citizens of the City of Zagreb and their own consent, so who will be able to manage, who will not, someone else will manage for him. That clearly needs to be communicated. We will see if it is possible through these laws which are very limited framework to do something and send some message to the citizens of Zagreb that they are not left behind. Because the citizens of Zagreb were left behind, at this point all these cranes you see, these are not cranes that are there because someone organized, regardless of the state or city, they organized themselves with their own resources. Don't let the result of the earthquake in the city of Zagreb be something that's already being told a lot, which is, the state will rebuild, the city will rebuild, those who have money will restore their money, and those who won't have money will be the mechanics who will buy, tear down, and suddenly the earthquake in the city of Zagreb will turn into some kind of mixed business. We can't let that happen, and it certainly can't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196142	Stanka will be approved and we will go to the last request for a break, a respected colleague, Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196143	Thank you, Mr. President. In front of the Club We change Croatia and Live Wall I demand a break to discuss the package of measures we have heard here. Namely, what's this about? Only in one sentence did the prime minister and finance minister mention the CNB, and when we look at, from America, Western European countries and to Japan, central banks still play a key role in solving the crisis. Why? Because only central banks can offer unlimited liquidity in their currencies. The finance minister said that saving the economy would cost about 45 billion and added 20 more. However, he did not answer the question where he would obtain the necessary money. From here I warn you, there is no need for you to be in charge especially abroad but exclusively on the domestic market. If you're on the domestic market, then at least 3/4 of the CNB at 0% interest. If you do otherwise, you will be responsible for this because you have simply done damage to the Croatian economy and the people. This, these loans from the CNB, it's folk, it's gotta be folk, it's never been. So this happens once in 30 years, so these interventions have to go that way. On the other hand, we suggest, Mr. President, helicopter money, and you know, you've heard what it is, it's been shared by Trump these days, Australia has divided. Many other nations shared, even Serbia the other day. It is that the central bank, the CNB, directly identifies all adult citizens in Croatia 2x per 2,000 kuna, means 4000 kuna, to preserve consumption, demand, thus producing, hiring and affecting a lower GDP decline. Those are measures, they're state-owned, listen to them, it doesn't matter what we suggest. Some things you have well announced, but these are crucial and we must now, for hours here, save the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196144	Thank you. The apartment will be approved. So we'll continue at 11 o'clock and 45 minutes. The first Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, dear colleague Bozo Petrov, will speak. It's a date. The meeting's over. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. The first is a respected colleague, Bozo Petrov, on behalf of the Association of Independent Lists Bridges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196146	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us today is a new package to mitigate the consequences caused by the coronary virus epidemic in our society, in our economy. We've already started a discussion in an optimistic tone. What we can see with this new package of measures that the government adopted yesterday at its session is that they have partly adopted those proposals given to them by entrepreneurs, citizens, but so have we as an opposition. And that's good. If there were a little more will to listen, they could have happened two weeks ago. But I don't think it's time for such discussions right now, the most important thing is that the government has decided to take more decisive measures and that's good. First of all, of all the measures that have been adopted, the most important one is the write-off, not the delay, and that's what the Most emphasizes from the very beginning, the delay was not enough. I'm glad the government adopted it. That now the write-offs of direct donations have been adopted and this package itself makes enough decisive measures that we can have a real time-out for the economy. Time-out for two months. Not a solution. But we have plenty of time to consolidate and bring in the right measures that will help our economy return. Also, by passing this law, it became clear that the government debt would grow and that there were no small figures, tens of billions of kuna being said. And I want to underline that precisely because we need to be aware that the state will be in charge. Question by which coefficients, by which interest. We also don't know how long this crisis will take, but it's important to point out that the citizens know that. She's going to be in charge of all of this. Someone will lend it, but the debt will come back, the debt must be paid back, and the citizens should be aware that it will be paid back by all taxpayers through their taxes next year. As for the measures taken by the others, there are plenty. Some are good, some could be designed even a little better in the short or in the medium term. We think that some of these measures should be permanent, to show that the paradigm of the state-economic relationship has changed, that's what we can listen to all the time in the last two weeks, the change in the paradigm. I want to see that some changes to some decision, some measures that have been taken in the last two weeks to be permanent, not to be temporary. So we showed that the paradigm of the country's relationship to the economy has really changed, and that it has changed the paradigm of economic policy, that's important. I'll take one measure the government said would be temporary, when it would become permanent and then you've made a real change in the paradigm of state and economy relations, and that's VAT collection at charge. This is what MOST has warned of for years, according to the finance minister today in peacetime conditions. You'll remember we used to say that a lot of times. Why? So it's just not right for the state to be the first in line to charge when the entrepreneur does something and produces that the state doesn't care whether he manages to charge it or not, the state immediately charges VAT immediately per invoice, as soon as he issues the bill. It's not correct, we warned about it. Now that this situation has finally led to it, let's call it a VAT break, so is it correct after a few months when the situation stabilizes to get back to bad practices? This measure that finally triggered this epidemic, this crisis, this measure should be permanent. Now she's gonna show that we've really learned lessons and previous crises and this crisis. In addition to this measure, there are still certain measures that we believe should be lasting, which we have talked about before, that is to erase the tax advances on profits. It's also a reinvested profit relief, they can be permanent. You will send them a message, with them you will send a message to investors and creditors that we have changed our relationship to the economy, to workers and to entrepreneurs, that we are friendly towards all those who want to invest in Croatia, to all those who have any entrepreneurial initiative. There is also one measure that the Government has unfortunately not yet adopted as a proposal, but we will continue to insist on it because we consider it extremely important, which is to provide State support grants for micro and small entrepreneurs, i.e. For those self-employed craftsmen, for freelancers, for family businesses, my people don't have enough liquidity to endure months as large systems, they may not have enough financial resources to support the month, but they carry part of this economy, for them it should be made possible. Every enterprise, no matter how big a praise is worth it. If you don't think so, let's be brave, you go out as a self-employed person in a real economy like this, face all those gifts that a man like that needs to give to the state, provide himself with the rest of his life benefits, and then say they don't matter and have enough. Given all the pressures, all the donations that were supposed to give to the state, secure their own pay, believe me, they're heroes right now, and they should be helped, too. The state needs to provide grants for these people, for self-employed, for freelancers, for small family companies. It is also time for the state to undergo a rapid transformation of agricultural production. Our agriculture is fragmented, not as effective as our competitive countries are. Also, many state and private land is unprocessed and, of course, there are acute problems that need to be addressed immediately, which is that our agricultural products come from the fields to our tables. And these broken chains, the buying-in channels of the states need to be solved, and broken chains of states directly at this point need to be solved. In addition, what is acutely to be solved is to allow people to do the necessary work in agriculture now because they are now working, not in a month, two or five months, now. And that's what's acute and that's what needs to be done. But other than what is acute, there are systemic problems in agriculture. The biggest systemic problem is unprocessed agricultural land today in Croatia, which is over 600,000 hectares of which is 300,000 hectares, almost 300,000 hectares owned by the state. When the state passed the Law on Agricultural Land, it is two years old, they said it would help distribute that very agricultural land. The last two years totaled 11,000 hectares of 300,000, and this rest became hostage politics and blackmail at county and local levels. That's what the state needs to deal with today. We must, I guess, learn to be self-sufficient, self-sustainable. This means that one of the main fundamental economic branches in Croatia should be agriculture. Yeah, we hear from the government that she finally realized what I don't want to stay on the verbal level. I haven't heard from the government exactly this most important piece of information and the most important measure, you put into operation 300,000 processed agricultural areas that are in your possession, which you don't assign. Assign it even if it's free, grant it on condition that it finally starts to be used, let it be the only condition, but let people work. I believe that there are enough people in Croatia today who want to deal with agriculture, but a number of bureaucratic problems and pillars exist on that path, and besides that, there is approximately no love for those who should do so. With all these other problems that I have cited so far, at least we can be honest and honest today, we can say that the current agricultural policy has led to an almost burned country. I guess this lesson taught us. In addition to these topics, I would like to talk about those people that the Croatian government obviously doesn't hear enough at this time of silence. Shut up about the 230,000 people who have been completed, who have had problems so far, and now imagine what all the problems will happen to them with this crisis. We could hear from the government that he was going to pass a new executive law, he didn't pass, it didn't happen. As a result, MOST will give legislative changes to the parliamentary procedure that will allow temporary and they will be given the opportunity to postpone the execution due to special circumstances that have occurred as a result of the coronary epidemic. It's simply not fair that the minimum amount that the government has now given because of this situation that it is being completed and that it goes to the executives is simply not correct, it's not fair. The government must act accordingly, not be silent. We still hear nothing but silence about it. If the state in the national solidarity of wage keeping act has given jobs a minimum of 4,000 kuna, why don't we leave it to people, why do you allow it to be taken away by 230,000 people who are under wraps? Other countries did it, Slovenia did it first, it's nothing weird, it's not impossible, it can be and it needs it. At the end of my presentation, I'll just talk about public sector cuts because they need to be done. What I should also warn you of all that has so far been almost impossible to do, all these bureaucratic columns, walking from counter to counter, no today, interesting. Everything we've heard that can't be spent years digitizing, in a few days or weeks you've done. So you can, you can do 100% of the digitization that is your indicator today of everything you do and that can include the domestic IT industry. But what I must warn you is that politicians, officials, are the first to show by example that they will give up, that they will help, that they will bear the burden. But don't let it stay on it because then it's cheap pulsism. Do not ask us to agree that you will cut the salaries of the education sector, the health sector as long as you have not arranged what is important, and this is this mess of 550 municipalities, 20 counties, belonging to city municipal county companies, belonging to state-owned companies. That's what you do. That's what you're supposed to do. And when you do, then you can transfer the burden to both health and education sectors, without it it's all cheap populism and you have no right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196147	Before we move to the second debate of the HNS Representatives Club, just a notice. Therefore, in agreement with the applicants on Monday at the end of these announced laws, three points of the agenda would then be discussed, namely the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the HNB Act, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions and Investment Companies. Also after Tuesday's vote, they would hold a united debate on 10 SDP-proposed legislative proposals, so that would be Tuesday after the vote. That you will get naturally in this week's motion debate for next week. We are now going to the club of representatives of the HNS are two representatives, the first colleague is Curaj, after him a colleague of Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196148	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Immediately at the start of the HNS club will support these new proposed measures. In principle you can see a lot of shifts, some of the things that I talked about here last week, but also in the Parliament the first time the measures were taken are now the same and implemented and in the extreme line, I believe in the framework of possibilities. What's important, what suffers most not only our employers when we talk about the economy but also citizens are at times of pay cuts, do not give God the loss of work and all the credit obligations of the same. What is good and what I think for the first time in a while the CNB reacted so significantly that it reduced the minimum reserves by a quarter, so from 12 to 9% and also made it possible for all those who were regular, and now we are talking about measures towards banks, which were regular in subsisting their obligations from 31.12.200, their now delays do not pay as a reservation or as a cost. And that's where one space was created and liquid, and possibly for banks to just introduce these moratories. Moratories on the principle that three months nothing is paid and you move on at the end of the payment plan, you add those same three months. So, that the cost is important that this moratorium does not generate additional costs at the end of the entire payment period, both for economies and for citizens and that citizens are informed about their banks some have already begun to give instructions and that is good and certainly I call on citizens, it is also good to remember, as well as employers to regulate according to their opportunities. What you would certainly say as the main motto of ours is that we always go in all measures with maximum write-off, and minimally with red tape. And I think that on the trail of this information that we've been getting lately that we're already making payments for this fee for 3,250 kuna or now 4,000 which is going to be that we're even going to pay off and that the tax solution is very fast that this is exactly on that trail and that we need to allow as little tax burdens on our employers and the economy as possible, and that's how we're doing with these measures and we're very much doing it there, I'd like to just find a solution for the associations as much as possible. We have various associations, from those sports to those who exercise some public authority, social etc., whose funding is, is not questionable and they also have a lot of employees to be, that they can actually apply to this type of measure and tax exemption of contributions and the income tax itself, as well as these measures 4,000 kuna aid. What is important in this, and there would certainly agree to use this to rightly improve this relationship business to govern, so the way our employers, our companies, our business owners, craftsmen, above all, that we must not forget in this whole thing because they are still the most affected by the state that this electronic communication is absolutely perfected and maintained afterwards. What I want to mention and what I want us all to think about right now, not now to bid here, who's going to give more, who's going to be smarter, who's going to help better, who's going to grab maybe.../incomprehensible/... doesn't even know where to grab it, because we need to know that we need to have a balanced part so we can't give towers and yards, and we don't have cover or know what tomorrow. So I also said in the replica, we need to think about what in 2, which in 3 months, how to stimulate the season, how we obviously will have the greatest part of the potential of tourism in our own citizens, how to motivate them and through some kind of maybe tax relief, payment of accommodation, whatever, to save that season that will certainly be drastically lower in the results now, but also that the state is starting what I've already said several times, what it has planned this year and the next two years in some projection period, work fast, intensively in the next few months, through its own credit duties, plans, for something that remains, which is added value of renewal. So if we need to equip schools and we know that in the next 2, 3 years we're going to have 1,800 classrooms not to wait 3 years, we're going to do it in the next 3 months or when it starts. We are talking about low construction of the Croatian highways have a plan this year to rebuild 100 km of highways, this year, we are going to do it now that there is no more traffic on the roads, especially because of tourism and everything that has otherwise brought us the biggest traffic. And so on in the renovation means equipment, where you hire more industries, more that won't even need these measures, and it won't be to the extent that when we talk about write-offs, it won't even cross traffic over 50% to get write-offs. And in this way, the state actually stays more or less in the same place because someone will have to give it to him if he doesn't give him jobs and if he doesn't provide economic activity, and on the other hand, all of these things will be in order and there will be extra value left, so those roads remain, those facades remain, these equipment, benches, schools, whatever. There are various things that are certainly in some planning and investment maintenance plans, and the point is to go into everything that doesn't need any extra project documentation, that some public procurement is carried out for months, even years, etc. Anything that is possible quickly, by urgency, by offer, practically negotiating procedure 3 offers, but not certainly at prices that differ from the average of the same supply to the last one, I don't know how many 6 months, a year, however you want. So you can make those restraint mechanisms. And that's actually what we should be telling us how to activate the economy and how to welcome that day after. Is what we've given someone money if they're not after two months when they no longer have the right to do what they're going to do, I won't say thrown into the wind because someone lives off that money and it's good, more or less those who don't now would get similar and fee from the bureau so they'd be on the same, but our goal is to encourage that economy. So let's try to think that way, with suggestions and we need to be constructive. It is absolutely no time to bid and court the citizens but what is possible in the frameworks and therefore the HNS and supports these particularly other measures the Government will and will support them and let's talk about what will be the day after.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196149	Thank you, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, Minister, means I will briefly look back on these measures and this part of the measures relating to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, in order to in some way enable local and regional self-government unambiguous lending, which was announced in the first wave. Equally, at local level, we will feel a reduction in income from taxes because we are mostly financed from taxes and income cuts. The city tax is so to say communal compensation and contributes more or less aware of the circumstances of the situation if they are not, I think that the vast majority of local self-government leaders have already made one step, from the release of those who do not work, to the possible participation of the minimum of those who do yet, from co-financing of kindergartens etc., etc. I can practically say from my own experience that somewhere in projection during the duration and recovery of all these municipal taxes that my budget gave up around 10% of tax revenues. What is the projection of the decline in income at the bar, how much will be with the basis of tax and income cuts at the moment is difficult to assume. If we go mathematically fast, given the number of these benefits the minimum wage to say, how many jobs have already been reported, companies that use what praises are valuable measures can expect a drastic drop in tax revenues at the level of local self-government. Of course, it will vary depending on the structure of the revenue side. Now, the interest of all countries here has been very clearly specified in these measures, life cannot, must not stand, investment as much as possible must continue, of course, in accordance with the financial opportunities and fiscal capacity of possible debt by the state. Of course, we have to give up everything that isn't necessary, especially at the bar, and also at national level. But the ministers here say you're going to make a special guideline, so you're well aware of the situation at local level. Many local self-government projects have already been in charge or have been in debt, many will be in trouble, they will be able to extend and the moratorium loans will be on loans, however I would not like to, I would like you to define it very precisely and give a very clear framework for the possible possible task of local self-government, and there would be exclusively to prefer a debt to investment, not to know what already. Above all, it must be satisfied to continue to realise European projects, investments. Investments that would generate added value, and simply reduce the expenditure of the state in terms of support and assistance, but the criteria should also be traced if one thing does not happen, which is that local self-governments are practically placed in a position that they will not be able to serve, I will not say pay but those basic functions they have. So it's from kindergartens, from maintaining municipal infrastructure, from those who have education under them, so that part shouldn't be questioned by amounts that would be granted unambiguous loans. You are also aware of the facts, meaning the decision is made by municipal or city councils, but you will have to be a filter and you will have to define certain criteria not only in a transparent way but you will also have to be a mediator in that part of your service. Furthermore, the question, you speak here, and this interests a large number of local self-governments and regionals from northern Croatia, the less developed areas of the Law on the financing of local self-government is so called. It's a fiscal balancing fund. So many local self-governments couldn't achieve average income, so the state compensates from the remaining income tax revenues, how will this relationship now manage to balance, and in this direction, I believe you're thinking, how will the interest-free loans be raised to what amount? Are these basic tax revenues and income tax cuts plus fiscal balancing, which units are receiving, and will it be possible at all to realise from the Finance Act that fiscal balancing fund since it has been accounted for over the past five years? So the purely technical issues that you trust me are extremely important to the entire local self-government, especially in those parts of the mountain-mounted, less developed landscapes or those local self-governments that fall under the category of fiscal balance. In general, I would like to see in that part, of course certain procedures must be implemented, very clear criteria because do not forget another detail that can be taught in this situation by the experience of previous long years when the government or the finance minister, when he approved the credit position, many local self-government simply because it was not the government, the minister was not the filter, they brought their local self-governments into very unfavourable positions, they were practically unable to function. And don't forget one more thing, 2021 is local elections and turn on that one moment, and I think we all understand what we're talking about with regard to the possibility of using credit funds. As counterpart Curaj said, the HNS club of liberal Democrats will support these measures, I believe that we would all like not to need new measures, new state interventions to save jobs, but if necessary, I believe that the government will react promptly and this time despite many criticisms. However, I would also like in this situation, and already the circumstances themselves teach us, less bureaucracy, more realization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196150	Thank you. Let's move on, now it's time for the Live Wall Representatives Club and let's change Croatia, too, two MPs and representatives, first colleague Lovrinović, after which, colleague Sabolek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196151	Thank you. Dear President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected finance ministers, and I especially welcome you citizens who are now following us. Dear citizens, these crises rarely happen. We've seen many, but this one's unique, and it can't be solved in a textbook way. Hence, it is unusual and difficult situations require unusual solutions and innovation. And right here I want to immediately in front of the Party Let's change Croatia to welcome some of the good measures that this government has now taken, it is primarily an increase of minimumers from 3.200,00 to 45.00, a decision or measure to pay VAT for the paid realisation, not invoiced, and we have been looking for it since I've been in the assembly. And I'm asking this government to make this VAT decision that in realized terms of traffic, that's how it's paid because it's 20-30. Entrepreneurs are funding, the Ministry of Finance, the state, which sucks. But you see these measures that I just mentioned two weeks ago I'm here in the form of amendments, dear citizens do you remember, suggested and sorry that the government didn't have hearing then because we lost two precious weeks because people, a lot less would have been fired from the business sector if they knew about these measures. But okay, let's move on, I guess something, some of that and adopt ourselves in the next few days. It wouldn't be good if we had March measures, April measures, May measures. Look, this is a crisis that's specific, I said. This is where you look two or three steps forward, not when the moon comes, and we'll see what happens. That way we won't be able to solve this situation properly. If we don't act 2-3 steps ahead, and there are some measures missing, I'll talk about it, so I want to constructively contribute to that, we're going to gallop into recession. Because otherwise, the recession usually says if two quarters of GDP falls, so we're going to lose GDP so quickly that we can get into recession in a month. So traffic is dropping and company income is dropping. Of course, what's the problem now? The problem is consumption and demand. People are scared, I squeeze in their pocket what's left. So they buy food, medicine, and almost nothing else. If they keep acting like that, here's the way to the recession of whatever they do to me. Well, in that sense, we need to make a few key moves. Here, I suggest here also the finance minister who said the cost of saving the economy would cost about 45 billion kuna. However, we need to explain where the money is to finance these 45 billion kuna expenses. We don't know that. He spoke in an interview with the media about foreign borrowing, with the European Central Bank or the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the IMF even, etc. Dear citizens, I say responsibly none of this is necessary. Nothing, I repeat, is not necessary. Why? We have EUR 19 billion in foreign exchange reserves, it is owned by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We have 150 or 200 billion kuna on our savings, and we have what gold is now worth, it's the central bank, the CNB. In times like this, we see from America, the EU, to Japan, China, so here's Serbia the other day, that bank once in 20, 30 or 50. calls for her to save the situation. Why? Because she's the only one with unlimited money. She can create and produce money for the loan as much as she can? As long as it takes. Therefore, mechanisms are known to do so. Trump put 2,000 a few days ago, 200 billion dollars, their central bank, into the system. So that's how it's done. Because if the central bank, I'm, uh, I haven't heard today except for one sentence, so I care about these governments running away to use the CNB and our kuna. This is the time to use the Kuna people of mine. Well, we need to focus now on domestic transactions, production, so we don't need dollars, Euros, we need kunas. But what's behind this? Well, there's an old habit of creating a 45 billion-dollar debt, that it's taken from business banks, be careful, let's say 0.5-1%, and we're paying interest, and the CNB can be taken at 0%. For the second time today, I am warning this government, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, if they do, I will file criminal charges against them when this crisis is over. Why? Because they directly damaged the Croatian people and this rope they throw at us to save us want to create a hanging noose or an additional increase in public debt, external debt, etc. I've repeated the sources we have. In that sense, I call you again, put the CNB, she and the people, must now show that it is folk, it has not been so far. She has to secure how much money? As long as it takes. The former governor of the European Central Bank when the crisis took place in 2008 asked him what will you do? He said whatever it takes. He opened doors and windows, and if he hadn't done it, who knows what would happen to the EU and their economies today. So, my people, I repeat once again from a few days ago the solution of the Party Let's change Croatia, our economic experts, let the CNB in the next few days use so-called. helicopter money, which means all of the adult citizens of the Republic of Croatia, according to our estimates there are about 2.5 million, which get up to 10,000,00, which received up to 10,000,00 kn net salary, but there are pensioners involved, so all of the adults, that would be 2 times 2,000,00 kn, would total cost 10 billion kuna. It's a grant. A gift. Why? What's the point of that? Well, that's what Americans do, Australians. It must not fall consumption and demand now because if this happens, they start to shoot the link in the chain of economy, and more later it's hard to save, we enter the glib recession. So, I invite you to reason. Do it. Don't let the CNB, who's actually running the CNB today? What kind of price stability? What kind of stability course? The state goes down, my people's economy goes down, and they're smart enough to send us a ball and a government, says save the business, and we'll wait on the side. Dear citizens, if this doesn't come true, listen carefully and hear what is proposed to remember that there are solutions to know that we proposed at the right time, and then in the elections, of course, decide what you're going to do. So, next, open green markets, it's open there, so clean air, open air, people will be much more, less will be able to get infected there than in closed trade chains. Let the little craftsmen go, so there's no rush with them. So people have already learned how to protect themselves, wear masks, gloves, etc., etc. In this context, I'm looking for you and I'm calling for you to stop, Mr. Minister, the VAT on the water. So you understand, within the framework of tourism, people on the island pay 80 kuna one cubic meter of water and there pay VAT 13 kuna. Remove the VAT on the water. Introduce a special tax to banks and telecom operators who only make billions of profits and transfer it abroad, now is the time for them to pay, or contribute and show their solidarity. And let me get this straight. There's a Latin saying that says, "Bis dat, qui cito dat." Twice he gives who gives quickly, the message is clear. Now let's use the CNB, now let's use those billions because after the car gets stuck, God forbid all four wheels in the mud of recession, it'll be bloody, bloody hard. Let's, then, implement measures that the CNB actively finance this crisis, with 0%, pay the helicopter money, and this will be a far, very big help to all of us. And what's especially important. Start big investments because if you don't run big public works and investments, let's do it now. The River-Zagreb railroad. Let it be building in agriculture, refrigerators, droughts, irrigation, so we won't be able to function like that, it's open-air jobs, it's not closed jobs because nobody talked about these big investments today, it's this New Deal, it's got to be because this economy in these conditions, it has elements of state governance, war economy and some markets. Whether it will last another month or more, we don't know that, but we have to implement it now. So, with the best intentions on behalf of the party, I suggest we change Croatia, so that you complete these measures, so that you don't hire us, we have our batteries, we have our own money and as far as foreign currency is concerned, and especially kuna and finally let the CNB be in the service of defence and rescue of the economy and the Croatian people for the first time. Otherwise, if that is not the case, it is long gone and cannot be called either the Croatian or the national or the bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196152	Comrade Sabolek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196153	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens. The living wall supported self-organised entrepreneurs as a party amongst the first ones under the phrase "Sign, not a delay". Now it's visible that the government is facing... to adopt most of the proposals of self-organised entrepreneurs, not of art organizations such as the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The economic theory says, now it's time to spend and primary money emissions. If we want to preserve our economy, this 30 billion aid to the economy is necessary, but we need to know that these measures will not get the desired results, if they will immediately start cutting wages. At a time when states directly donate money to their citizens through so-called. Helicopter money, i.e. colloquial, throwing money out of a helicopter, any reduction in wage mass would mean unusual shortsightedness and would have multiple negative effects. In addition to the aid measures, the salary mass economy must remain the same. It's the only way we can maintain economic activity and ensure a faster recovery. Salary cuts can only be symbolic at the level of the Prime Minister, ministers, parliamentary representatives, board members and supervisory boards, director of institutions, but the total wage mass must remain at the current level because our economic survival depends on it. Moreover, with regrets we can conclude that not all the requirements of self-organised entrepreneurs have been accepted, this is a historic opportunity to deal politically-relevantly and contribute to organisations such as HGK, as well as other parafiscal imposes, which has been missed. It should be noted, what Stigitz explained in a series of his books, which is how austerity measures cannot get out of the crisis and how such measures have always and everywhere failed by breaking and extending the crisis. You saw this best in the differences of approach to the US and Europe crisis when the United States, which spurred consumption from the crisis, came out in just a few years, while Europe, and in particular the Eurozone, using austerity measures from the crisis, came out a lot longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196154	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Milorad Pupovac's turn in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196155	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We're looking at everything that we're going through with the measures taken by the government and that we here with a higher or lower degree of consent, under the impression of what is the most direct, visible danger, which is the coronaryvirus. But seriously, I don't belong among them, they can only call on them, they know that the world's economy would go towards its crisis, perhaps harder than it was in 2008. And no coronaryvirus. And that's why I'm going to say that maybe what's going on with this pandemic here and in the world is an opportunity for awareness, an opportunity for the deepest and most serious awareness, that, before this crisis would happen, before the failure of both banks and financial markets would happen again, action is taken that is necessary to take. So far, in these two steps, the government has taken in the opinion of the club of representatives, and I see most of the club representatives in the assembly, measures that are proportionate to what is necessary to take. We hear very interesting suggestions on what else should be done in this regard. So, we support this set of measures, Mr. Minister, as a club. What we think, and that's where we're going to join other clubs, that's important is speed. The speed of application of these measures. So far, while some colleagues have dramatically dramaticd the rise in unemployment, it is nowhere near what has happened in America in the past two weeks. Of some 150-160 million employees in America, 6.6 million were out of work within 2 weeks with a prospect of increasing to 9 million due to the absence of adequate measures. Therefore, these measures should be continued, they are good in this respect and should be implemented quickly and people working on it in a state apparatus should act spotlessly, should act under complete supervision. Another place that may be weak and which, with such a good measure as 4,000,00 and 5,200,00, together with the settlement of contributions and taxes by the state for workers who will be on a minimum of 4,000,00 is supervision, so that Mr. Ministers do not manipulate employers, not to abuse these measures, not to delay, not to take measures to reduce people's salaries before or as long as these measures are in force. And we know of some cases that have already taken place. So they will take measures, have additional sources, but are already taking measures to reduce their salaries to their employees. It is important to be careful not only that people stay at work but also that employers do not take restrictive measures in terms of reducing the total salaries agreed by collective agreement and using these circumstances as they know how to use them. As far as the subject goes, the subject of the day after which to think about today rather than waiting for that day to come up. The government is also right that a second set of measures that will be discussed on Monday move focus on agriculture. Why? So because this crisis has shown, well, the health crisis, the economic aspect of the crisis, has shown the complete unsustainability of our society, our country when agricultural production is on Wednesdays and the needs of supplying agricultural products under crisis circumstances. And it forces us to commit ourselves to making agricultural production more extensive, to make agricultural production more quality and to make agricultural production, as colleagues and colleagues have pointed out here, and adjusted to make use of all the land that can be used and at the same time to encourage and support not only the issue of the division of the country but also the question of the use of incentives to be placed under absolute supervision. So, we need a state that, as the minister said, we have long not been in this assembly or in the public hearing what the minister said in his post-Prime Minister's statement, important employers are, but it is also important for the state. Why? Because its regulatory role, its stimulating role, the state in these circumstances and in all the following circumstances must remain and must be in this regard. In addition to agriculture, I will say at the end of the great state, a common state which unfortunately fell unfortunately and tragically apart, the Republic of Croatia had a surplus in agriculture of nearly $2 billion. Today, we are struggling to bring her back to life, and it is indeed an opportunity to do so. Other branches where we think it's extremely important to make it are buildings. This is where my colleague Curray talked about it, so I won't be laboring too much. Roads, waterways, the state of our water lines in a series, not only the environment for which the SDSS has special interest, return environments, the environment of special state concerns that are devastated in war circumstances but also in urban environments, in vital urban areas such as Zagreb are in such a condition that it is necessary to invest additional funds. It's an opportunity. Electricity, sewerage, is a particular problem, and this should also be pointed out, because of the depopulation, due to the poor character of the activities of our units of local self-government and county, abandoned drains, abandoned wells, which, when the more abundant rains begin, experience floods that cause huge damage. Now is the opportunity for Mr. Minister to pay attention to this and be some kind of element in our new deal, in our new treaty that the government, which you, which we as representatives are going to initiate, is going to be run by both agriculture and construction and infrastructure. I mentioned the U.S. government, the Democrats and the Republicans are fighting a battle over whether so-called. And building to be accepted, an act to rebuild and invest in infrastructure in the United States, to bring a few more trillions of huge money in order to save and maintain the economy. Major important infrastructure projects are also important for Croatia in this regard, and I would add to that the environment. In what way? Here are some of our colleagues, such as colleagues from Istria, who have been fighting a battle with individual waste dumps for years, who are under control, who are well-run, but who lack additional funds to be fully rehabilitated in special climate conditions of summer months and summer days such as Kastijun. But how many such places are in the vicinity of Rijeka, especially Viskova, how many such wild dumps we haven't managed with either European means or with our own resources. Now's our chance to do it. It is now an opportunity that when it comes to a set of tourism laws, let us pay special attention at a time when the tourist season will not be special, if at all it is to any extent. It will be an advocacy that the state will allow domestic tourists to actually be those who will leave and who will take advantage of the opportunity to keep tourism alive under favourable subsidized circumstances, while at the same time being able to spend a certain amount of time on vacation that they haven't been able to spend in a number of years lately. So these areas also need to be ecologically rehabilitated and activated by people in the tourism sector in the process and on that path of recovery. One more thing I'd say. With regard to the reduction of funds or the cutting of salaries in the public sector, no one is reasonable to do so if the need is imposed, but at the same time if it is to believe the findings of the Institute of Public Finance, the savings it would receive would not be large, but we understand that it is necessary to share the responsibility. And it is certain that even in this House, people will not be opposed to sharing that financial responsibility in this respect. But let us bear in mind that out of the number of people who work in health care, which is 68,000, out of the number of people who work in police jobs and as police officers it's 25,000 we get 93,000 people who, by automaticity with the military, would be excluded from such measures. What's left? 137,000 would remain in the public sector as a whole. So that would almost be halved, those expectations, let's not have any real expectations in this regard. Here someone, a colleague from the Living Wall, spoke of the need to preserve consumption and should be preserved. The public sector was one of the sources of conservation of consumption. The peace was one of the sources of conservation of consumption. I'm not an economist, and when I say things like this, I'm aware of the risk that I don't know all the other parameters that can affect something, but when we make a decision in this regard, we need to be extremely careful that science is also our developmental strength. In what sense is the developmental force? Well, let's see now. If we had an Immunology Service, we'd have our own meds, if we had the Institute in Pliva as we had it, we'd have our own meds. But what did we destroy first? We destroyed it first. Who's mind? Well, not because of our brains, but because of the absence of our brains, but because of someone else's mind that was in favor and still goes in favor. This component applied in the studies should also be kept and developed. But it is not my place to talk too much about it now, what I could only do as a representative and as a member of the Academic Community to say that time, Mr. Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, is that we use the potential of our academic community for what kind of economic social development we want this Croatia to have. We don't just import most of the food in supermarkets, we unfortunately import most of the ideas, most of the thinking, most of how we should behave and what we should do is what others think is good for us. And now it's time for our esteemed colleagues and colleagues to start thinking what's good for us. Therefore, the state should be a key asset, a key instrument in finding it. And I would, if I may say so at the end of this, not a few dozen million kunas will be a great expense to the state if it provides them for several groups of researchers multidisciplinaryly drawn up to explore such potentials and such opportunities in Croatia. Finally, Mr. Minister, something that is pro-domo sua, so things we do as a party together with other representatives of national minorities, mountainous areas, islands and areas where members of national minorities live, especially those that go through three ministries, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy should not only be suspended, but should not be reduced. These people are in need, and at the same time they are able to preserve jobs, work activities in rebuilding the infrastructure in municipalities, in encouraging the OPGs and at the same time in encouraging crafts. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196156	Thank you, too. Let's move on Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash will speak on behalf of the GLASs Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196157	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers and colleagues, we at the GLAS Club are very pleased that these proposals of the government have come to debate and they give hope to many entrepreneurs and craftsmen in Croatia that they will not necessarily have to put the key in the lock because the situation is not quite as irrevocable. We're primarily glad to listen to each other, this is a time when we can't shake hands, we can't hug, we can't sit close to each other, but what we really should be able to do, which is listen to each other more than we normally do. And not only listen but also respect advice and opinions and criticisms, especially if they are numerous and come from different sources. That was the situation, for example. with the issue of taxes and contributions, and we from GLAS as well as most of the opposition, but also economic experts as well as associations of craftsmen and entrepreneurs have warned that without write down the obligation as long as the labour ban or significant fall of activity due to the crown, all other measures do not make sense. We also understand that the measures that will have to be taken are extremely expensive and will mean a great burden on the state budget, possible work, deficits and borrowings, but frankly it is not that we have any choice. 100 thousand people on the stock market and a ruined economy wouldn't cost us anything less than these measures to make this epidemic stop at some point, and then we need to be ready at a low start to relaunch economic activity in full scale. We're able to make up for at least a part of what we're losing right now in this special regime. It is shown once again, and I think that this should be particularly emphasized how important it is for us to be an EU member state. The virus knows no borders, no states, no epidemic we would have had anyway, but if we weren't members, it would be harder for us to get funds from funds that are just forming at Union level to overcome this crown crisis. Following the initial short disagreement and a slightly slow start, the EU is currently seriously working on collecting and sharing money to ease the crisis. The sharing of burdens, solidarity among the members and the assistance of those most affected are the ideas of European unification and the prerequisite for preserving the space of prosperity and progress that we are working hard to build in Europe. It is important that the message is also heard that the results of the programme are seen, and I am sure that they are seen in Croatia and that the entire set of measures proposed by the Government would not be possible without the EU's support. However, we now see that we must be prepared to review the measures that are being introduced and their effects. This is a new situation for all of us, and there are no perfect answers to every question. It's not the subject of today's law, but I'm taking the opportunity to warn the government that some things should be considered. One such thing is the provision that measures cannot be applied to those who have open debts to the state. These are not incentive measures for excellent under normal circumstances, so that an understandable condition is the lack of debt. These are survival measures. Preferably preserving jobs. Well, there seems to be no reason for us to set such high conditions. What's the job, we save the companies, we save the jobs, no one needs to write off the debts, and when the crown passes, they need to be charged. Besides, if these companies fail, we won't be able to pay back our debts anyway. Another condition that seems bad to us from practice in recent weeks is that directors and procurators of companies do not have the right to pay minimum wages. Similar to tax debt, this is not a situation for us to save companies from mismanagement of their management but from disturbed circumstances that they could not possibly influence. There is no reason for those who care for workers who also live on the business of the company and are now without income to deny the right to pay minimum wages. There are a number of family companies in Croatia, for example. both husband and wife lost any income because they are employed in certain positions. Another topic I'd like to warn you about, and I think it's very important. It's about civil society and culture organisations. Restriction of expenditure and use of funds means that all programmes for culture and associations, and even those dealing with social programmes and without which the social care system cannot function, for example. A shelter for women victims of violence to be considered a cost that is not necessary. If so, we must be very careful and not let such a thing happen. I have already warned this very high home last week about the problem of psychosocial assistance for children and young people who have fully stopped in their programs, which can have unspeakable consequences for the most vulnerable members of our society. Likewise, I know that we are not Germany, but in the context of our own possibilities we should consider ways to help culture in the Republic of Croatia. What is certain is that we must not allow programs in culture that are fully and partially implemented not to be paid. The more public institutions are owned by the state and local self-government units, the more they are now among the biggest debtors to independent artists and prominent workers, and now threatens the danger of these debts being confused by the crown. According to the information that's come to us, e.g. HNK Split owes about 3 million kuna to external associates. Our culture is on the ice, and we need to take it more seriously and more seriously. One of the topics to be mentioned and to be highlighted, these are our famous parafiscal imposes. We try to get rid of these parafiscals every time, we have different programs, different projects, and then we boast that we've abolished them or solved them, but we haven't done it. I'm going to mention a few parafiscal duties, and I think you really need to think about it. For example, it is paid to verify the documentation on the reserve of mineral raw materials, paid to confirm the consent and registration of the type of tractor vehicle, paid to carry out the examination procedure and the approval of the forest economic base. After the earthquake in the City of Zagreb we have had and we still have one very interesting display which means when administration and has parafiscal burdens and does not want to adapt to new circumstances. In buildings regardless of whether the damage was from the earthquake or not, in that great fear people often shut down the gas and now that gas should be released because we see that the cold weather and the building was fine and nothing was damaged by the earthquake, Plinara said okay we can let it go, but you have to pay 3.000,00 kn. The question is what else is paid that $3.000,00 for gas release, and then, of course, under the influence of the public, they reduced it a little bit. But let me just tell you a story that will show what parafiscal intrusions even mean and what it means when people are not ready to adapt to new circumstances. One building on Folenegovic's, the gas is closed. The building wasn't the least damaged in this earthquake was it built after '65. and high-quality, no cracks on, on, on, I don't know, paint. In that building, a family gave up an apartment that does not use a family that is unusable to its property, which is frozen there. And they go to Plinar and Plinar says okay, but in order for you to release the gas, you have to have a statistical confirmation that the building is usable. They go to where statistical certificates are issued, statisticians in the City of Zagreb from Sunday, Monday, are no longer working because it was indeed unorganised and the building in Folnegovic still has no gas. So it just shows in the context of the parafiscal burdens that we love to talk about, it shows how it works in nature in one of the circumstances for which no one could have in the wildest dream predicted that at the same time the City of Zagreb would happen and the Coronavirus and then the earthquake. But I would've used these last few minutes. What we need to think about right now, we need to think about the future. We all have to wonder together whether we'll be able to learn some lessons about the future from this crisis. I'm not talking about the simple ones, for example. That we've already mastered, we all wash our hands. I'm talking about lessons about what kind of economy we want. What's important to us is what we need to invest in. This situation has once again shown us how dangerous it is to be overly dependent on imports while their own capacities remain unused. She also showed that it is dangerous to the extent that the Republic of Croatia depends on very sensitive, unpredictable and fragile activities such as tourism. The question is, will we finally get the strength to invest more in research and development in both state and science systems, but also in serious companies in this country. Storage, sales, distribution, tourism, hospitality. These are all important activities, but not enough. The Republic of Croatia is a small country, but this does not mean that we do not have the strength and that, and we should not see those who, through research and development, create strong foundations for a long-term sustainable economy that creates serious added value. We have to wonder if we're finally going to find the strength to get involved, not just to get involved, but to actually implement the green economy. Not only because it is green, I think that the need to preserve the environment at this point does not need to be further explained at all, but the green economy is also a modern economy, one that can take a serious step towards tomorrow, on which we can base long-term stability, quality jobs for highly qualified people and the lasting possibility of exporting our products to the most demanding markets. Will we finally get the strength to support and develop domestic food producers, from small OPGs to the largest companies? This situation has shown us how important it is in our daily lives, but also in our long-term development and stability. The domestic food industry should be developed not because we want to barricade ourselves into our four walls but because it is completely irrational and unreasonable that we do not use our own resources completely and to the last millimeter. This coronary virus, and in the City of Zagreb, the coronaryvirus and the earthquake, should be a lesson for the future. We should be getting ready for the day after, the day after that we want to get there as soon as possible. And let's never forget this situation that no one in their wildest dreams could have predicted it would be, but from this situation we need to learn something else. To learn that the structures of public administration, the structures of the government must have the ability to adapt. The ability to adapt means that you can react immediately to the changes that are, that you can react immediately to the voice of the public, to the voice of reason, to the voice of the profession. So we also experience this set of measures that I called April 1.0. I, sort of, seem to me, to us at the GLAS Club it seems that soon a set of measures should come in April 2.0. We simply must not allow the day after Croatia to be burned. What is important to us and at this point we support this set of measures that the Government provides jobs and we need to ensure that we have great energy, but we need both energy and effort and for some other things that will give us the opportunity to be a developed democratic state, that democracy is extremely important to us and that we don't somehow get through the laws to get through some things that, when we start from this crown, we normally work, which we're going to have a hard time getting rid of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196158	Thank you, too. We're going back to the law package and they're going to talk about a package of laws that's on the agenda of Mr. Hrg in front of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Prime Minister. When we talk about what the government has done in these months, how we are shaken by this crisis, and even the earthquake, then we can say that she was very awake, that she was reacting spotlessly, that she reacted quickly and that she was making moves that were possible at that time in the frames that we have. The HDS, HSLS and HDSSB club supports all the proposals of these laws, we support absolutely the efforts of people who control the process and all processes of this crisis and we want them to succeed in this way as they do now, of course headed by the Prime Minister as Prime Minister. Turning towards people, towards employees and entrepreneurs, there is no real alternative, and when we talk about the means that are being released and which country is returning, so to its citizens and their entrepreneurs who have paid the same funds and will again be paying after the crisis, then we have to talk about the gross amount since it is not only net 4,000.00 but it is about the contributions that go to it, which is somewhere 5,825.00 kn. Finally, European policy is also focused, according to the latest information, on the preservation of jobs and the rescue of entrepreneurs. What's often mentioned in this time of crisis is what we often return to, and we always go back to these situations to the beginning of everything, we go back to the country, we go back to food production, we go back to the most valuable production without which no one could live without food, there is no life, then I think about it, and I'm thinking here saying something that doesn't make sense to me before, and now it's even less logical to me. So, in times like this, when we do work faster, when we're more efficient in some way, when we're all still as prone as we can to get things done faster, we have to try to find a solution, think about whether the process when VAT is reduced to catering services in restaurants and hotels, is it not possible to introduce that parallel process to condition these same restaurants that they must have at least 60% of Croatian food products on their menu. If you're already giving some relief, then let it end up back in the Republic of Croatia, let it go back to production. I know that we are defined as a state for the capitalist system, we know about freedom of trade, but the same thing needs to be considered, and it is all about what is happening now and the sale of agricultural products and the problem of markets that I believe will also be resolved in the coming days, there will be a solution, whether it is really not possible for the malls to commit, limit, determine that they must have a certain percentage of Croatian products on their shelves. I think this is the time when all these things will come back to the table when every country protects itself in principle its interests, its borders, its citizens, and it will have to start talking more seriously about what's coming to us tomorrow. We today have the situation that the President of the European Commission tells us that the EUR 100 billion money in EU countries is spent on what is most needed, primarily on preserving jobs and economies, of course and on health, it comes first, regardless of the purpose. All right? I think we have to look at it that way, but we also have to watch what's waiting for us when this crisis is over. How do we start the economy? Without public investment with public money, it will be very difficult and it will have to be very careful what projects they are willing to give up in order to move behind it in order to create a new value, so that people can earn their full pay when conditions are created. Maybe this is the time to speed up the process and public procurement procedures. A time when countries are still so closed in their own frameworks, perhaps this is an opportunity for more of our employers to get jobs in public procurement, that they don't have so much competition outside with all due respect and open market and all, but realistically looking like I said this is the time when we look at everyone on our own for the most part. In the end, I believe that the government will also find new measures, that we will continue in this direction, that it will well control the process and I believe that it will be more strategic and long-term thinking and that we will have some directions very quickly, that after the crisis, how to get out, how to go beyond that. In any case, from this pay phone one must constantly speak the same thing, call for the greatest possible commonality, the greatest possible support for those who face this crisis day to day and point out and warn about what is most important, but always to be on behalf of people living in the Republic. With these messages, I repeat, our club will support these bill proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196161	Thank you, too. Now Mr. Marin Schibola will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196162	Thank you. In these challenging times, all political tools should be acted decisively and used to preserve the economy. Before this crisis, the Republic of Croatia had major economic problems. Today we can outwit whether GDP has grown by 1%, 2% or 2.9%, however, the indication that Croatian citizens have been dissatisfied with each step through the event that many young people have sought their future in some other EU Member States. At a meeting held in the Banski Dvori, I advocated facilitating the budgetary disciplines of certain master criteria, and today I have had just one such proposal, so you no longer see so much pre- budget discipline, I think that's good, that's the only way to overcome this crisis. The other EU member states are also on their way, and it is a good thing Croatia is on its way. Why am I saying that? Because this period requires much more state spending. So without greater state spending, it's impossible to service the economy at this point. What has disappointed me is that this solidarity has not been seen, so there is no EU unity, because it is often promoted in public by this community, solidarity, as Member States support each other. However, we see that the EU has also divided. The leaders of 9 member states, including Italy and France, recently requested in a letter to the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, to enable the issue of joint bonds to be financed, to support health systems in the fight against the crown of the virus and to assist economies. However, Germany, the Netherlands, Finland and Austria opposed such a model, so that there is division here and in this economic sense again. There has been a division between the northern Member States and the southern Member States that are more in charge by nature, but also now and on this issue there is a huge division. It is not only about these coronas of bonds there has also been transit, a difficult transit and a difficult number of other passing points. Croatia should now take advantage of its non-euro area member advantage, so it is all a paradigm in the eyes of observers. The prime minister said it was a lack and you see more of the plan, I see it as an advantage that Croatia is not a member of the European zone, the euro zone. For what reason? For this reason, the CNB can now intervene more strongly in the economy in a way that ex niils, i.e. The primary show where the central bank will create money and forward it to citizens and SMEs. That's exactly what Trump did, and that's where some other countries are headed, and I really think we should use monetary tools when we're not already using them during the normal period, so at least in this crisis, let's use the monetary tools that we have. So we have our central bank, we have this privilege, because other euro area Member States have given up this monetary sovereignty and have to ask everyone about the European Commission, they have to consult with the European Central Bank. We have this one privilege that we don't have to. So here's the appeal for Governor Vujčić to go that way and help businesses and the economy in that way. Fear of inflation should not be because money can be put into circulation regulatedly, so there is control over that inflation. Inflation from 2% to 3% is a positive inflation it will not have any negative effects on the economy. Private banks can also create inflation, so private banks can also create inflation through multiple credits and deposits through credit expansion. Therefore, the concern that the central bank will, because it has the possibility of money creation, create inflation is simply a missed argument because private banks always have the opportunity to create inflation through credit increases, credit expansion and credit emissions. I also once asked you which banking institutions Croatia is most obliged to. And unfortunately, I didn't get an answer to that question, and I'm very interested in that. So I'm very interested in what banks Croatia serves. Because we know that the one who gives the money is above the one who takes the money. If we don't know what Croatian believers mean by name and last name that we know which banking institutions are the biggest creditors of foreign public debt. That's what I'm interested in, and you don't want to give me an answer to that question. I want to know who Croatia serves, I want to know who has the greatest influence on our economy. Also, here you have chosen that way of borrowing. I don't think that's a wise way to go. You're talking about who's gonna be in charge of you more, so that's where these international financial institutions are normally always offered. There we have an international monetary fund that is known to always offer assistance in these circumstances, but many countries have negative experience with the international monetary fund because at the moment when money is due, it will give money, but then ask for different other measures from the state to be implemented, and these are often measures, and these are often measures to raise taxes, impose, layoffs in the public sector, deregulation, means maximum deregulation where the state will not play any role. These are the measures that these international financial institutions are looking for, and I think that we should not afford the situation of being valued by these financial institutions more than we are today. The conflict between the public and the real sector has been noticeable lately. That's not good, there's no need for that because both sectors are essential. The state has to help entrepreneurs, which it has done in part, but it must not go to public sector wage cuts because public sector wages are small anyway, we had a lot of nurses' protests before this crisis, means healthcare professionals, police protests, teachers' protests, the government has done something for teachers, and now imagine that they have to re-cut what they've grown. So, funds should be sought elsewhere, the central bank is one of these possible solutions, but I'm not saying that there is no need to reform local self-government, it should certainly be done, however, HDZ and SDP have been avoiding this single reform of local self-government for years, although the profession clearly and unequivocally says it is necessary to do so. And now that you have a situation, for example. Here is the coronaryvirus, listening to the waist, the media is completely focused on what the waist is saying, what's constantly in the public space is just a coronary virus, but when the profession says you need to reform the local self-government, you know that the ministers need to do it, and then the waist doesn't listen, then these particular political interests of the two biggest parties that hitch that kind of thing. So if you're even thinking about cutting in the public sector, don't go that way but reform the local self-government. And finally, there have been a lot of these demagogue, populist measures, and I believe that one measure that is not demagogue and populist is a measure where political parties would participate in this crisis in such a way that 50% of the money coming from the state budget for political parties is invested in another segments that would now contribute to this crisis. So we know that HDZ and SDP are getting millions and millions from the state budget, and now all these huge millions are going to give up one piece and so let small entrepreneurs and medium-sized enterprises help them. When the nurses protested in front of the government, you didn't clap their windows there, Minister. And today, when we see how big the role of these healthcare professionals is, you're clapping from their windows today. And why didn't you go out and say hello when there were thousands of nurses in front of Mark's square? Then you didn't have hearing and understanding, and today, like everybody else, here we go. When we need them, then you from the government get out there, too, clap. So they're not given the problem of support, it's great that people have gathered and they've given them support, but they need to be supported by those healthcare professionals when they need them. When it comes to defending some of their rights. When they need higher wages, they need to be solid with them, not when these healthcare professionals are needed. You need to come up with a model to tax the business banks. To them, the system has so far favored the most, and it seems that they will benefit most from this crisis in the future because many will be forced after this crisis to become in charge of these business banks. They have in one part agreed to some measures, meaning moratories, etc., but this is not enough, so they must also contribute financially to this crisis because in fact Croatia is for them El Dorado. They're pulling billions out of our system, sending billions to their mothers' banks and not serving the economy the way they should. So they're still acting, breaking the law in the Republic of Croatia through the credit show of these Swiss francs, which was, so we have these different illegal ones too, the creditors who paraded in Croatia, should be punished by these banks. So you just have to punish them and get the money out of them, if they've damaged the citizens and they've robbed the people. So there should be no compromise against them, for those who take every opportunity to take the last kuna out of their pockets. They're the ones who have the most and actually have to give society the most, too. It's simply the direction we should be taking because the decomposition of society in the world, means that the wealthier and the poor so much that they can't meet some elemental needs is huge, so this decomposition is huge and I have the impression that after this corporal crisis, the biggest blow on small and medium-sized enterprises, on ordinary workers, and those who have huge capital, which are these large corporations, financial institutions, different speculators, they're going to make money on this crisis, and if they don't make money, they're going to take advantage of this crisis to expand their impact, they're going to take advantage of this crisis to spread and buy what they can buy when the stock prices are falling on the stock markets, so they're going to take advantage of that opportunity they're currently having. The media have a very large role to play and I appeal that no climate of fear is created because in this climate of fear, while people are simply afraid to take all kinds of measures and I have the impression that this fear of people is also being used, and that's why this Law of Electronic Communications has come to us where every man would be followed. Under normal circumstances, there's no way that society would accept it, no citizen would accept it, but I can see that it's pushing, I can see that it's trying. And so I appeal to the media not to create fear, let them report positive news, and let the people not be afraid, let them be careful, let them think critically, and let them not believe everything that is served them because we will ultimately have one tyranny and absolute control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196163	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr Emil Daus who will speak on behalf of the IDS-PGS-RI Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196164	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the Government, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. A tiny virus, as we say down there, changes the world, changes the way people live, their needs, priorities, the economic picture, and things are likely to slowly start changing and the geopolitical map of the world. And it doesn't matter if we are in Spain, whether we are in Italy, in Croatia, whether we are from Zagorje, Dalmatia, Slavonia from Istria, and even less whether we are in HDZ, SDP, IDS or any other party. That virus chooses how he, whom he will, and the health profession still doesn't know the right answer how to stop him. But that's why everything the profession knows is doing very well, and it should be commended once more and thanked to them, thanking the health care workers, the police, the fire department, but also the store workers, the suppliers, and all those who sacrifice themselves these days. A good part of what the government has proposed in this second package of measures should also be welcomed. This is the result of listening, respecting, proposing a profession, economics for those policy options that are responsible and aware of the situation and which have tried to help their proposals. That's why we're glad the government took the measures we talked about two weeks ago. We need to do everything to avoid mass layoffs and we believe these measures are going in that direction. Once again, we note that the IDS in this crisis will act politically responsible and will make its contribution as it has done so far, and not only by supporting these measures, but also by proposing how it makes it even more effective together. We see that the need to help agriculture has been recognised, and we welcome that, but we think that we needed a little more courage and determination. Friends and colleagues with drinking water are food that will lead to wars in the future. Without everything else, it can survive, without water or food. Our country has everything it takes to meet its water and food needs, even more. Now it's time to take that chance. So today, when you still don't know how long this is going to take, your own food production is the key question of how to survive the crisis we're in. The proposed measures are welcome, but they are temporary. It is necessary to be bold and to bring in those long-term ones. This is the moment when sound state decisions are made, and one of them is an urgent, productive and clear agrarian reform that will allow anyone who wants to produce food to have a secure land for this production, that there is a guaranteed purchase of agricultural products that gives safety to the agricultural producer and to help those shops that sell Croatian agricultural products and products from Croatian producers. This addresses the issue of food insurance to our citizens, the issue of employment of domestic labour at moments of unemployment, the production of controlled high-quality natural farmed food on previously uncontaminated surfaces, the operation of hundreds of thousands of hectares of unprocessed and abandoned agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia, both state and private, and the establishment of agricultural production as basic primary production that binds all other activities. If specific measures can be taken for the war against coronary viruses that are not quite acceptable under normal circumstances, if special tax measures can be taken which are not quite acceptable under normal circumstances, if citizens are seriously considered to follow through mobile devices which is unacceptable and in exceptional circumstances, then special measures for the war against unemployment and potential poverty and hunger may be taken. Given what is currently happening in the world, and given the major climate change in recent years and everything that will result, we must create independence for the import of food into the Republic of Croatia. Now we have a great opportunity. We believe that in a situation like this, it is not important for the virus to see an individual's world view, nor should it be important to us now if we want to defeat him and the ever-increasing major economic crisis that will follow. So we appeal to the government to continue listening to everyone and to add what is good and realistic to these measures. We're stronger together, and we want to help. We also expect that once these measures are adopted, we will be ready again and soon respond where necessary because the rapid changes in the rules of the virus must be rapid and state reactions, especially towards the economy and socially sensitive groups of society. From week to week, it will be necessary to adapt to circumstances and to take new measures and finally implement those measures that have been avoided for years such as the abolition of parafiscal duties. One thing we must stress, which is that it is the right time to finally understand what we have been warning for years how vulnerable tourism as an economic sector is and how dependent on a number of external factors that we can't even influence? We have no doubt that our valuable tourist workers will do everything possible to bring the situation back to normal after the end of this pandemic, but at a broader, strategic level as a state, we must finally become aware that tourism has its limitations and potential risks, one of which we are witnessing right now. This must be an incentive for us to seriously consider the future strong strengthening of other sectors of our economy and to share the risks. What's interesting, on the other hand, in this whole ungrateful situation, is that within a few days, you can make applications for issuing passes, e.g. and put into office even though they say today there are a lot of problems, that they are stifled relationships, but, so it can still increase the efficiency and efficiency of the public administration. And this should become a rule for all services in the public sector, not just now in exceptional circumstances, so that we finally end up with these notes, strange working hours of receiving parties on counters, etc. We have no idea how much such approach would help, not just the economy, but society in general. There's one more thing that's interesting, and it's commendable. It will allow entrepreneurs to pay VAT when billing, not after its publication. So you can, and it should actually become a rule when this monster passes and everything is slowly stabilized. So our craftsmen, entrepreneurs don't have to start calling their debtors at the end of the day, but to take over, in a way, the role of payment control because it has an interest to charge VAT and itself. Now, that would help the economy a lot. To welcome it, of course, and other measures, but I think it may be necessary to think about how to help those who have been fired these days in the last 15th, 20th days, to get back to work, whether or not to recognise their employers’ subsidies if they are re-employed, certainly one topic to think about, because especially in tourism and somewhere where there has been a panic, it has happened in the last 15 days that a lot of people have lost their jobs, and perhaps in this way they could save jobs through these measures. It will certainly be necessary to find a solution for many other people who, by your dedicated work so far, have entrusted our society, we have heard on many occasions, like cultural workers. Let us not forget employees in amateur sports clubs, I stress, amateur sports clubs, especially educators who work with children and many others whom we must not now also forget. But first of all, we must not forget those who are now on the first line of defense, and we should even reward them further. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the crises unfortunately have many negative consequences, but they also have something positive. They're one other way. In our case, the chance that after 30 years of wandering, when more, when less, but 30 years of wandering, we finally go in one right direction. If the government remains responsible, continue to listen to the profession in the field of health, but also to more and more professions in the area of economy, economy, if, on the other hand, opposition representatives will make their own quality discussions and suggestions, and the government will respect their real and acceptable proposals, if we are all together in one way, I stress, all together in one way, there is hope for this country and its citizens. Now we really have a big chance, let's not miss it. The IDS Club will, of course, support the proposed measures, noting that we expect even more concrete measures as quickly as possible, especially in the agriculture sector, namely our own domestic food production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196165	Thank you, too. Now, Mr. Branko Bacic will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196166	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I would like to make it clear that we will support these measures that the Government has sent to the Croatian Parliament, both these three laws that come from the financial part and those relating to the tourist part and the law amending the Agricultural Land Act, where certain measures will also be introduced that should respond to the crisis in Croatia under the pandemic in the world and Croatia. We also claim that Croatia, but also the world, is faced with the biggest crisis, according to some after II. svt. war, many say that the biggest crisis since the economic crisis in 1929, and given the number of countries that this crisis has covered, and not only, it has become a threat to the lives of all citizens, but with its impact on the economy, it may be the biggest crisis ever in the history of the world. So as counterpart Daus said earlier, a small virus has changed the way of life in the world, all the achievements of the 21st century are almost forgotten. We return to one life that we thought was behind us long ago, and practically with all the medicine, with all the treatments being made, since we still haven't found how and how to respond to this challenge, we return to therapy, I would say, in the 19th century, without saying that quarantine, isolation was still Dubrovnik Republic on July 27th, 1387, introduced by building infirmarys on the eastern entrance to the city in the area of Ploč. So with everything we've achieved in life and in the history of the world, I'd say it's still not enough that we can respond effectively and in a quick way to this great challenge that this coronary virus has set before us. I said the way of life is changing, all of a sudden those topics that we were concerned with the problem of terrorism, the Middle East, it's practically gone, it's gone from the sight of our interests, we've changed the way of life there's no sport, there's no culture we've simply changed our lives, and so the responsibility today is, first of all, when we talk about Croatia and the government of the Republic to find ways to protect what's most important to us right now, and that's the right to life and the right to health. By the constitution of the Republic of Croatia, when we talk about human rights and freedoms, it's an art. 21. that is fundamental human right, right to life, and art. 69. The constitution says that the right to a healthy life is one of the most important rights. Therefore, it is important that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as a state, put ourselves in line with this challenge. I often hear here from some fellow MPs statements, attitudes that we've been late with measures to combat this disease. And I would remind myself then by knowing everything that has been done in the past time that already on 9 January in the Government's Office, a certain team that will monitor the situation in China, knowing how much the Chinese economy, how much everyone is connected to the Chinese economy and China have already started their first activities, to the extent that we are 24. January introduced special measures at airports and seaports to monitor whether there are indications of the arrival of the corona virus itself in Croatia. Very quickly, a crisis and civilian headquarters was formed, before the health ministry headquarters had already launched a number of measures so it was almost illusory when it was said that the government of the Republic of Croatia was late with measures. And whether we were late with the measures or not, I was preparing for this debate trying to determine some of the information that speaks about the extent to which Croatia had rightly set up an epidemic of the coronary virus. So in that sense, I would like to say that if we take as the reference day of February 25th of this year when the first one was registered in Croatia then there were, for example, 229 and 6 dead in Italy, in France 12 were killed and 1 died, at the level of Europe only 7 died 25. In Germany, 16 patients, in Spain 3, Sweden 1, UK 9, and in the United States, on 25 February. On today, however, the data are probably even worse, but on this day in Croatia we have 1011 patients and 7 dead, in Italy, which had 229, 116,000 and 14,000 died, in France, which had 12 today, and 4,500 died, in Germany today there were 85,000 and 1,177 dead, Spain had that day when Croatia 1 had 3 patients, today there are Spain 113,000 and 10,000 dead, so I'm not talking about UK where 34,000 died and 3,000 died today, or the United States, which is the world's most developed economy that had the world's largest economy that had 53, and today there's a record of 240,000 dead and nearly 6,000 dead. So what do I want to show these? This is what I want to show that Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have committed very quickly to suppressing this pandemic or epidemic any way you want to say that the work of the Staff, through the work of the Government, has produced excellent results from the Ministry of Health. We heard last night when HZJZ Director said that at this point in the world that only Japan, according to its assessment, is better equipped with this crisis than Croatia is, above all, because we decided it was good that in times of crisis, executive power, based on its decisions on the profession, to take charge of the epidemic and the crisis, was a crucial decision. We have therefore rightly decided here in the Croatian Parliament that the activation of art is not necessary at the government level. 17. The Constitution of the If they were forced by a two-thirds majority to make those decisions that restrict human rights and freedoms in Croatia, but are based on the laws that this Parliament has adopted in this or past independent term in accordance with Article. 16 certain laws that are activated in the event of such accidents. So I would like, above all, to highlight the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases and the Civil Protection System Act, and these are two basic documents on which the Minister of Health and the Civil Protection Staff are also very successful in countering the crisis. I wish our friends were from the opposition when they transferred us for which reason and for what reason we didn't activate the decision from the article. 17. If the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia finally told us what the decision should look like, to what extent that decision should be detailed, would we come into a situation where in the Croatian Parliament, we here every decision that means limiting the work of shops, markets, bans on gathering, quarantines, etc. any place in Croatia and any location in Croatia should bring 2/3 of the majority here in the Croatian Parliament. I think it would lead to absurdities on the one hand, and on the other hand it would mean blockade, blockade of even life in Croatia. We are therefore advocates that the laws we are going to bring here in the Croatian Parliament are not a state of emergency but that we are working through the work of the assembly, the work of the president of the state, the government, the judicial authorities, the Constitutional Court, the units of local self-government to prescribe measures, to adopt measures based on the law that I repeat this assembly. We do all of this for reasons we hold that protecting health and protecting lives is the first decision of what we have to do. But today, when we have proved successful in the defence and in the fight against the crown of the virus we enter into another package of measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed to the Croatian Parliament and that March package and I now hold this April package that they have been affected, that they have been created as a continuity in the work of the Government and in monitoring the situation in the Croatian economy. One and the other package of measures, when agreed, is expected to be based on the implementation of these measures within 3 months, of about 9% of GDP in Croatia. So, everything we will prescribe through these measures and what we will intervene towards Croatian employers, first of all, in preserving the job of each employee in the Republic of Croatia, we set out around 9% of GDP. As far as I have information, perhaps later the vice-president and finance minister will say, Austria is the only one among all the countries in Europe that sets out more than the size of its GDP from Croatia. Many countries that are mentioned here as responding well and in quality are not even approximately at the level of detachment per GDP compared to Croatia. Therefore, all these measures that the Prime Minister has explained this morning, and later, I have no need to repeat the Minister of Finance, and when it comes to detachment by an employee of 5,825 kuna, the right of fellow Schucker to say this morning that we are talking about 4,000, 4,000 are going to the employee, but the state is obliged to allocate more than 1,825 kuna for the purpose of paying contributions in Croatia and the release of all taxes and contributions for small entrepreneurs up to 7,5 million kuna or proportional release if the fall of revenue is more than 50 kuna for large entrepreneurs and the payment of taxes, etc., VAT at the charge of these are measures that I think are quite well designed and affected. But what we must, which we must take special care of, is to establish this solidarity in Croatian society. And when it comes to the real sector and the public sector. And if we find that measure then I think, and we are on the best track, and these measures and everything announced that will take place with the unions and the social partners in the next month, I am convinced that as we are successful in suppressing the coronal virus in the fight against the crown of the virus that we will show the same success in the fight for every job and fight for every entrepreneur in Croatia. I also hold this because these measures that are now being implemented in Croatia and that will take effect after the Croatian Parliament adopts them I am confident and I am sure that we will be able to address new challenges with a better starting position once this crisis has stopped. Therefore, what I can say is that I expect clearly that all participants and government and social partners and units of local self-government and regional self-government and they should not be forgotten in this crisis that they will make their full contribution so that we can deal with this crisis as successfully as possible. In this regard, we will support this measure in the HDZ Club of Representatives because we think that they are excellent and the right answer to the crisis that has come and which has affected not only Croatia but the whole world, and in this sense we will probably support these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196167	Thank you, too. Now it's the SDP's Club of Representatives, first Mr Bernardic will speak, and then Mr Lalovac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196168	Good afternoon, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, immediately at the beginning of listening to Mr. Bačić, I must confess that I am shocked. I remained shocked because this information that you said was neither us nor the Croatian public knew. That you're still nine. January had a preparatory meeting in the government and that the first measures were taken at airports and in the Adriatic ports on 24 January. My question is, why didn't Croatia introduce rigorous measures when we only had one patient? And my question is if you knew for three months about the arrival of an outbreak of the coronary virus in Croatia why only today, so at 4:00 p.m. For a month, are we discussing intervention measures to help the Croatian economy? These are questions that you will have to answer, which you will have to answer in the coming days, but I must admit that I am not only shocked but I am expressing great concern about what we have heard here from you in this way. But let's concentrate on that job that's waiting for us. First of all, let me direct one human, large, warm thank you to all our services that work tirelessly to stop the spread of this epidemic that has hit Croatia and the whole world. Thank you to doctors, thank the nurses, thank you to epidemiologists, thank all those who watch day and night and help our citizens and thank everyone who is involved in the fight against the coronary virus and who in these difficult times make life easier for us. The pharmacists, pharmacists, security guards, communal services, cops, firefighters, these are in this situation our true heroes, they give the best and most of themselves in this difficult situation for Croatia. We in the SDP warned a month and a half ago about the consequences this crisis could cause for both the economy and the citizens and after the World Health Organization declared a pandemic after it was confirmed by the decision and the Croatian Government, we came out with a set of more than 15 measures to help citizens and help the economy, on which our experts and our advices worked. Our measures were not then adopted by the government. And Vlad's first package of laws for numerous citizens and entrepreneurs proved insufficient. In the last two weeks, people have been running out of work, without income for their families, entrepreneurs and citizens, but today they still feel great uncertainty and great fear. And precisely because of half of the first government package and because the weather was leaking from day to day, and Croatia simply didn't have time to wait for the SDP Representatives' Club sent last week a package of 10 laws for the rescue of citizens and economies that we hold necessary to discuss at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, this package of laws has not been discussed yet, although we lose 1,000 jobs a day. Our package of laws is an invitation to action, to quick state intervention, to make decisions aimed at saving both the economy and jobs. After two weeks of agony that we could witness in Croatia where several thousand people were out of work, a second package of measures comes to the agenda. In principle, we can estimate that the government has listened to some of those proposals made by the public and entrepreneurs and trade unions and opposition leaders with the SDP, but it has referred them to them with a delay of at least 2 weeks, but better ever than never. The general assessment as well as the first package is like when all the laws that are being discussed today are actually given authority to individual ministers to decide arbitrarily and discreetly, to make decisions about when, who, and how much help that is simply not good. In other words, these laws transfer the council's powers to the government. Today I am not going to talk about those proposals that we have proposed that have been adopted, but I will try to concentrate on those proposals that we consider necessary to install into a set of solutions for citizens and businessmen. First, although the compensation for workers has increased to 4,000 kuna we continue to hold that at this point our proposal for a fee of up to 5,100 kuna would be much more appropriate. Second, after the great public pressure expressed, however, entrepreneurs are allowed to be released, not just a postponement of tax and salary contributions, and a profit tax advance, but we in the SDP must warn that the government has actually deviated from the basic criterion that the measure is applied equally to all entrepreneurs and craftsmen who will have a decline of more than 20%. Instead, the government retains only a postponement of payments for those who will have income up to, a drop in income of up to 50%, and is ready to fully write off taxes and contribute to those who will have a fall in revenue of more than 50%. What I warn of is that it can lead to the deliberate destruction of income by individual economic operators, which can result in reduced liquidity and loss of jobs. Thirdly, although you have respected our proposal that VAT be calculated at a fee i.e. after the realization of the crisis, we believe that this alone will not be enough to ensure liquidity for entrepreneurs. In fact, the economy is facing a complete collapse, there's a great ambience of mistrust, people are desperate, there's no payment among suppliers. Therefore, we call on the Government to lift all the parafiscal burdens, to restore trust in payments by example, to cut state payments towards suppliers for 7 days, and to set up a liquidity fund by which a simplified and rapid procedure would help the private sector in these most difficult times. Fourthly, the SDP expresses great concern that the government has not yet reached an agreement with business banks on the issue of new loans to help the private sector. We believe that funding only on the basis of new HABOR guarantee schemes and HAMAG BICRO simply won't be enough. Fifthly, it is already clear that this crisis will take a particularly long time to recover from the crisis. So we in the SDP consider it necessary to secure a moratorium on loans for a year. Simply to keep entrepreneurs normal with their business, and citizens normally with their lives, without fear and without uncertainty. The sixth, one of the sectors that will certainly be the most affected during this major crisis is the sector that brings us more than 20% of GDP, that is tourism. When it comes to tourism and assistance, the government has unfortunately offered absolutely nothing but petty technical, bureaucratic changes. I remind you that the SDP has also suggested that we insist that we abolish the obligation to pay the flat-rate tax for small tenants. Second, advances for artisan artisan artisans, the elimination of certain parafiscal burdens including the flat rate of tourist tax and the membership fee to the tourist community as long as the crisis with the coronary virus lasts. And again, the SDP will continue to insist on reducing VAT in catering and tourism to 5%. This is especially important today. Seven, we in the SDP must express regret that the government has not complied with our proposals to improve the position of special groups of workers such as the proposal to increase the basis for self-insulation compensation for workers to the amount of the average wage, these people have to live on something. Another proposal to allow one parent’s paid leave to take care of their children who are under 12 years of age during the duration of self - isolation or stay at home. The third increase in the amount of non-taxable payments simply so that employers who want to reward their people who are on the first line of defense from the crown of viruses such as merchants, pharmacists, drivers, logistics workers can simply give them an additional bonus on the salary. We think it's still necessary to do that. I would like to say that the SDP will continue to make a constructive contribution to the fight against the consequences of the crown crisis with the aim of easing the consequences of especially those of the most vulnerable citizens. In the SDP, we believe that due to this situation in Croatia, due to the outbreak of the Croatian Parliament's Coronary, the Croatian Parliament must simply continue to work uninterrupted, which means that we want meetings of the Croatian Parliament to be held in these changed circumstances from Monday to Friday, not just Wednesday to Friday, because the Croatian Parliament is the last line of defence of democracy. The representatives of the Croatian Parliament are chosen by citizens to be represented especially by those citizens most affected by this crisis, the most sensitive groups of society, they are their voice and we must allow them to hear their voice simply in Croatia, to be heard in the Croatian Parliament. And that's why we suggest that the advantage of putting the dots on the agenda has exactly the points that aim to mitigate the health and economic consequences of the coronary epidemic with the virus. We also suggest that the Croatian Parliament be continued next week because of the specific situation in our country or that there should be no rest due to Easter holidays, given the situation in which our country is located. Now I'm calling a colleague of Lalove's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196169	Thank you very much, but let me call him, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers and colleagues and several technical questions since there is a minister here to try to discuss it with us, or with your team, and answer these questions. We welcome that you moved to 30.6. However, the purely technical issue for all entrepreneurs is that the final calculation will take place, in most of them and most likely the difference in profit tax payments for 2019, so here is the purely technical question in that section whether this payment is also the result of the insolvency problem, whether the same payment for 2019 must be made in this arrangement or whether it will have to be paid. The second thing, is about renting business spaces, related to, especially natural and legal persons who now have in this part of the rent business space and who will have a rent of 0, so these spaces will not work and they will likely work on new rental contracts when the price will be at least 0 kuna simply so that the tax administration does not apply that Article 60. The income tax law, where it always says that the market price of rent should be, since today markets in these business areas, we appeal that at least in this period, while all these business spaces are closed, there is no tax on income or VAT when actually these business facilities do not actually work or business premises do not work. Furthermore, regarding all these measures that have been said here, I think it would be good to consider, over a certain period, all those companies that are going to use these measures to have them, however, are benefiting from the state's incentive to have a ban on profit payments. Because they'll probably get a profit in 2019, '18. and the previous year, however, this is now a liquid problem so that there will be no abuse, if the state gives them some incentives and this part, that there are no abuses on the other hand, so that there can be considered in any way that there is no cash.../incomprehensible/... as regards that part of the ban on payout. Still related to the use of EU funds, I see that yesterday it was announced that, that it would be flexible to use EU funds, I think that it is good, I don't know how much longer we are probably somewhere up to a billion euros if we were left to take advantage of the full envelope for 2011 to 2021, so this could only explain whether these funds, I see, are quite flexible in this way using these funds because these funds are important to withdraw and because of the reduced pressure on the course, I apologize. Furthermore, regarding the ERM II approach, I also see that this morning, the prime minister said it is a good measure that Croatia and even more strongly goes towards the exchange rate mechanism, although perhaps we are not meeting these conditions now and will find it difficult to meet the exchange rate mechanism II in the future, but it is important that it accepts us there that we can use the EU's access to the market and access to euro bonds, which will certainly ensure a certain foreign liquidity. I think it is not only an economic and political decision, and I think it would also be the European Commission to approach Croatia if we have already applied for the ERM II mechanism to allow us to access the market as soon as possible. It's certainly a few more questions, it's about the write-offs of these parts that won't be paid by the state, so the state pays contributions to those 4,000 kunas, but my question for all those write-offs that are going to contribute to what's going to happen to these people because we know when there's a pension write-off that one day, that these people wouldn't, in fact, be at risk for their pensions, that we might be thinking anyway, and that if there were any write-offs of that pension to actually be his, that it would count on him, too, that the write-off that was to be used for him when calculating his pension. Here, I thank you for these are certain technical questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196171	Thank you, too. There will now be views on this package of laws of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, which is a violation of the Rules of Procedure forgive me. Mr. Bacic, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196172	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure because a colleague insinuates that I am not telling the truth when I set the date when the Government of the Republic of Croatia began measures to prevent the fight against the coronary virus. Well, I am, on the other hand, amazed at the information that the president of the main opposition party is not aware that on January 24, the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure has made a decision towards which all airports and seaports are being raised to a high level to prevent the possible entry of the sick. and infected with the coronary virus in Croatia. [[Intruder: Time.]] And it was the first, first decision of the government of the Republic of Croatia to meet all citizens It is not clear to me that it is not the president of the main opposition party, Mr Bernardic. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196173	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Mr Bernardic also injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196174	The Honorable Vice President was also injured in Article 238, so I was shocked by Mr Bačić's statement that the first meetings in the government were held on 9 January, if the first meetings were held in the government on 9 January, my question was why it was waiting 3 months, first why it was waiting to take rigorous measures, and secondly why it was waiting to adopt these measures for entrepreneurs. Something stinks in there. You'll have to answer that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196175	Thank you very much. Okay, we didn't mention the articles, you said what you thought about each other and we're moving on. Now they will speak the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, the first to speak Mr. Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196176	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues allow me to state the position of the Association of Assembly Representatives of the HSS and Democrats on this proposal for measures by the ruling majority, respectively, of the HDZ. First of all, I would say that Mr Bernardić is absolutely right and has not received an answer to the question, so I will now give it to him, which is why nothing has been done, or why this measure is late. So as much as we can say hello and we must welcome these measures, the fact that they are late, especially late for those who have lost their jobs in the last two weeks. And why are they late even though it was possible to assume what was going to happen, Mr Bernardiæ is late because of the internal elections in HDZ, so the whole of Croatia knows, because of their choices, that the other people have been in the past two weeks because of the job and I propose to Mr Marić, who I follow all the time, who doesn't listen at all to what I'm saying, or what my predecessors have said, but the whole time on the line, to improve these measures and to support both the HSS and the opposition and everyone, but do something for the people for whom these measures have been delayed, these are people who have lost their jobs in the past two weeks. Here, so this is the first predisposition in principle to happen what the Prime Minister said in the morning, let's say some kind of unity that we all get together and I think that people would welcome it, that it would be in some way respect for the contributions of the opposition parties to this package of measures. What I would like to talk about, and what my colleague Miranda Mrsic will continue after me in the second part is that this crisis, that every crisis is an opportunity for a new start, and this crisis is an opportunity for a new start of the Croatian food industry, or Croatian food production. Especially since if it continues like this, we are all aware, we have continued this terrible situation for a few more months to come into the problems of the existence of society, not only the functioning of society as we have been used to in the last many decades, so what we remember, but also the existential problem of the survival of society, or the problem that we are not or we do not want to be aware of, and that is the problem of the diet of the population. Croatia is one of the few countries in the world that has enough natural predisposition to be able to feed under quotes themselves, or produce food far more than is necessary for the existing population of our country. However, measures for farmers, measures that should be aimed at ensuring the diet of the population not only these but also in the coming years, cannot be measures that will be taken through the month, two or three but immediately, now is the time of seed, now it is time to take measures to ensure that the state is doing its best not only to help farmers how much they need to sow, plant, whether there is a strategy to buy out the full production of Croatian farmers and thus ensure not only their survival, not just the diet of the population in months and years to come, which would not be dependent on food imports, because we do not know what will happen on markets or in countries from which we are now importing a good part of Croatian food needs. What if, if these countries decide to close the border and there will be no imports, then they should think about it and then the situation is an opportunity for a new beginning of Croatia, I repeat Croatian agriculture, Croatian processing or agricultural food industry, an opportunity for the recovery of Croatian villages, an opportunity for the return of people, a part of people to work in the primary sector, which is the opportunity for Croatia to stabilise, reset and in some way cancel out the last 30 years when unfortunately the Croatian government has favoured foreign importers, import lobbys, mega-trafficks and has ruined Croatian peasants, Croatian farmers and small food producers. I must commend that it is going to an intervention buy-in of milk, but this measure comes not too late as regards this crisis, but too late as it is 5 years too late as regards Croatian dairy. So we forgot that Croatian dairy was destroyed, that such a measure should have come 3 or 4 years ago in order to save the remains of the Croatian dairy industry, but what it is now is a good sign that Croatia can take care of its dairy industry, but I repeat, I should, in principle, appeal to the ruling to consider that with the following set of measures it is not to wait but to adopt and propose opposition parties, HSS proposals, Democrats proposals, SDP proposals and other parties among which there are very, very good, very good and constructive proposals, I have looked at all of the proposals of the parties I'm talking about, so that all of this is understood to go towards one, once soon, to move towards a new set of measures because it is important from today's news as it is, we have no way to see it yet. The situation is such that people have started to relax in the last few days, which I have the opportunity to see firsthand, that discipline has fallen slightly with the coming of a better time, and I fear that because of this lack of discipline, the situation in Croatia is not escalating until the end. There's something else I'd like to say about tourism, so we can cross tourism for this year. You don't need anything, you don't have to doubt at all that the tourist season will be crossed. Here when I talk about tourism workers about the tourism sector that will suffer this year not huge losses but will de facto remain on the zero question of how many domestic guests will be able to save the situation, foreign guests will not be because of us, but because of the general situation outside, and that foreign guests should come at this time probably go into quarantine. Therefore, it is necessary to help the tourism sector, tourism workers in every way possible and not to forget a whole series of secondary parts of the tourism sector, where they also include food producers, but where they include, for example, tourist guides that have been completely expelled, or that you have neglected, and with whom you are going towards de facto destruction, and one whole branch, let us call it, for example, employees closely related to tourism, which is certainly to be killed, or which we can already say that they have been killed this year. And now that I have invited Mr. Miranda Mrsic to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196177	Yes, thank you very much for helping me. Mr. Mrsic, you may proceed. That all of this, it goes on self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196178	Dear Mr. Vice President, life after the crown will not be the same, and what we miss out on today will have serious consequences in the near future. The measures we are discussing these two days are, in fact, measures to measure employers, but not to measure workers, and as the health epidemic of the coronary virus is an epidemic that is extremely dangerous in the economy as well, that epidemic cuts everyone around it. The epidemic has phase four, in phase one, you have no symptoms, and in phase two you have a fever and cough, you're in phase three you're on oxygen because you have pneumonia, you're on the respirator. Our economy is in phase three right now, and those who are locked up because of the social distance being made are actually on the respirator. But I'm afraid those who are now in phase three when they can no longer produce because there is no demand, because there is no raw material will also be in phase four. The government has gone too mildly with measures not realizing that it should be parallelly as aggressive in health to go to an epidemic, too, it was necessary to move aggressively in the economy. It was very late, it seems to me that Prime Minister Plenkovic acted like Trump to close his eyes, so the problem will go by itself. We are at war, and in war we need to make a very clear and very fast decision, in the war there is no decision in two steps so I am sorry that these measures that we have today were not before, two weeks ago and what is also seen in the government that in the government there is no person with sufficient authority, authority and power to make decisions and that is exactly what has been shown in these laws. Our mission from the opposition is to point to problems and offer some new, new things because maybe we see something different from what the government sees. It's a good thing we gave the workers 4,000 kuna, but as I said, this government is more on the hands of employers than workers, it would be smarter, more efficient and better if we gave these 4,000 kunas directly to workers on their current accounts, not employers. And while the government addressed the issue of subsidising salaries to workers, it did not resolve their working-law status while they were at home. Instead of sending workers to wait, employers are taking their annual vacations and therefore not all workers in Croatia are in the same position, primarily the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, or Minister Aladrovic, is responsible. As planned, the State should write off taxes and contributions, for these 4,000 should pay itself, but it should also consider that for those large companies to which we will write off taxes, contributions and all that is now in these measures, it is considered that for these funds, the Government or the State should not enter into co-ownership or property in large and larger ones. When the crisis is over then those shares can be sold and then the state returns what it has invested. On Monday, we will discuss agriculture, and today we should decide that the stock reserves take over and buy all surpluses without fences because that way we should be able and should save the agricultural production itself. If this crisis doesn't get us to review the defense list now, I don't know what it's going to do. This government has taken over, and I warn several billion kuna commitments to the HVO, and all these vote purchases are now coming up at the worst of times, such a wounded economy will now pay the HDZ election victory. Naturally, we also need budget rebalancing, there is Minister Maric, but not rebalancing because of the rebalancing but to face the crisis and that it is very clear that we have to pump money into the economy because it is oxygen and the blood of the economic life of Croatia. Our public debt will increase, so what, if we kill spending, it'll take us years to recover. Politics should be spent instead of saving for key activities during an epidemic such as health care, police, civil protection and other key services. Through collective bargaining, extras of 50 to 100% should be agreed on in terms of higher burdens and salary supplements compared to the basis during the duration of the epidemic. Workers who, during an epidemic of the situation, cannot go to work should have the same status and rights as those who have lost their jobs and receive compensation. In order to strengthen the liquidity of state-owned enterprises, the specific fund needs to buy out claims that banks have towards businesses. You should consider giving pensioners the lowest income to supplement during the coronary crisis with the virus. These are all things that the government should do to get us through this crisis as best we can. I think this is the time when we need to include talks with trade unions and employers and with the government on key issues because any measure that does not have the support of all three parties, and such a measure will not be able to gain its effect. At this point, we need a social agreement, community and partnership, which is the key to a successful fight against the threat that has hit us all together and that is why all segments of society must equally bear part of the burden and must not be privileged and privileged. I expect that the government will quickly submit proposals for new laws that will address Croatia's key structural problems and therefore should not be delayed. The government must now and now lay sound foundations for our future. We live in a time in which there must be no excess, left behind, and hungry. We need Croatia with a human character and in the end before the crisis we have heard from a large number of employers and some economic experts that the state has nothing to do with business, that state interventions are not good, that the market will solve everything. One question to all of us, why are you now turning your head towards that motherland and asking for help, why have you suddenly lost faith in the market? These are some things that are very clear that our lives will be different after the crown.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196179	Thank you. It is now up to the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGE and Independent Representatives and New Politics, and first Mr. Hrelja will perform, and then I will announce Mr. Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196180	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, so first of all, I would like to express my sympathy with all those who are imprisoned and understanding to all those who are imprisoned in their homes and who follow these instructions from headquarters and congratulate them on contributing to public health, the security that this monster is not spreading to possibly spread that all of this is gone. Secondly, although these are difficult topics, I must say one thing that I can express one satisfaction that after 17 years of political struggle and the appearance of HSU that Croatian pensioners must be protected because their rights stem from a decade of payment of contributions, I must also congratulate Minister Maric, and also Mr Plenkovic that they finally understood because this was not the case with previous governments and those in 2009, that they realized that they should not be touched by those rights of pensioners based on contributions and that they were in fact the most vulnerable group because 483,000 citizens of the Republic live with monthly incomes of less than 2,500 kuna. Let's add another 150,000 to 3,500 kuna, and these are the ones that will certainly generate consumption because they have no savings, no supplies of food and household supplies, they couldn't, in some years and they couldn't go from shop to store to collect supplies and food and household supplies. Therefore, they will regularly spend everything on payment of services, bills and food, hygiene supplies and medicines and, therefore, 1/4 of that money paid monthly to pensioners of 3.5 thousand, 3.5 billion kuna 1/4 will surely return to Minister Maric or Deputy Prime Minister again in the budget. So these people and that giving will certainly not be problematic and will keep the gross social product at a certain level. It could have been better, and now my predecessor has been talking about the need to think about some retirement supplements and I agree in principle, but the government of the Republic of Croatia has missed one big thing over the past three years. She has adopted a strategy against poverty, but there is no "s" from that strategy, so there is no fight against poverty, no goals set, no action plans, nothing. In the past 3 years, the government of the Republic of Croatia has been able to change the rates for the poorest, whether it is supplemental health insurance, whether it is a rv subscription and many other social assistance could have been determined precisely in the fight against poverty, but it is not and now there is no more room for manoeuvre and it is a great pity for the social security of a large number of our citizens. So, and here, now that we're talking, of course, that we understand that the issue of the state budget is a closed circle, of course we don't expect the state to pay contributions to these 4,000 kunas, she's going to book that it's paid, there's no cash money, I don't pay myself in the same pocket, you can't pay in the budget, but you're going to realize that the workers who are left with the employers and who got the support of this country that they've recognised the payments of the contributions, the state just has to pay physically 5% on individual savings, so in the II pension column. Therefore, to clarify these things that the contributions are not at this point a burden but a recognition of the state that they are, that they are paid. I think that one measure came too late, that this measure that we are now bringing, and that is 4,000 support and this payment of contributions or recognition of contributions by the state should be the first measure to come and say in the last package, should have been said to everyone, to all entrepreneurs, to all those who hire, you will get this measure to keep people in the workplace somewhere because, and they have started mass layoffs. So, all fired workers don't run their internship, they cost the state again, and it would be better if they stayed employed, if they were being interned because they weren't guilty of this disease coming. So that measure should have been the first. But let's not think this is all over. Oh, God, let's get out of here. In a month and a half, stop all of this from going down in 20 or a month. And God forbid it's all going in the right direction. However, the same should not be the pessimist, nor should it be disastrous. This country has had far more opportunities to get out of this situation compared to the 2008 crisis than it had at the time, and then this whole procedure lasted very, very long. We need to start talking about something that's just hinted and the prime minister just hinted. It's a matter of solidarity. What is the issue of solidarity in the Republic of Croatia? Is giving it to someone because it makes me feel like someone should be given or it's a solidarity system. You know that some members of the board of Croatian Railways get to become members of the administration 3 months before retirement and receive 42,000 kuna. Croatian railways don't drive, will they get it all the time? You know that the profits of the manager of pharmaceutical companies are huge, that the profits of the bank manager are huge, we are focused so they tell us you have good salaries etc., bigger salaries than the representatives have and the mayors of municipalities that are much closer to our citizens. The system of solidarity means that those who have more must separate one part, must separate in order to survive this pandemic of the coronary virus together. How? It's done with special laws and it's done until we get out of this situation. I think that's what's expected if this lasts. No one has the right in this country, regardless of whether in private, social or any ownership, to receive 5,000 EUR and not to participate in solidarity with those who have lost their jobs that we will pay compensation at the employment office, and those in Croatia have a lot. And that must add up all the revenue. So I think we should go through this Easter and after this, after Easter, we'll face our thoughts and find the best model of solidarity that we have sources of funding for people who have lost their jobs, who won't be offered this whole time a new job because we all have to get out of this situation and institutions and all citizens including pensioners and our youngest, we'll all have to get out of this scratched, wounded, but we all have to survive. It's the mission of the state as the roof of all citizens of this republic. I'd like you to remember that part, and in the end, I'd just like to tell you a technical detail. We've noticed that there's a difference between the law on this accounting and the general tax law on what's been published on the government's pages and what's been published on the council's pages and what we have here, technically, is physically here, so we've offered you, and we've offered you amendments to one of those two laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196181	Thank you, too. Mr. Aleksic will continue the course of club thought and go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196182	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers Maric, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the SNAGA Party has proposed 16 important measures, anti-crisis measures at this difficult time for the whole world as well as for the Republic of Croatia. Of these 16 measures, almost nothing has been accepted, and I will present here six of the most important measures, in my opinion, the most important measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would have to take and which the Government of the Republic of Croatia may even accept in the next period because there will be no others. So we thus suggested that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would definitely propose a mandatory moratorium on the payment of loans without payment of interest. The government has promised to be a moratorium, however, the government did not propose this in the form of regulations, but rather, it has negotiated it with the banks and left it to the banks for mercy and impassion to determine the conditions for moratories. According to my knowledge, the bank is proposing moratories, offering moratories with interest payments. At this difficult moment when almost no one can make money, when people will lose their jobs, when they will go into a major crisis, not even banks can be allowed to make money on interest, and above all, because banks just owe citizens 20 billion kuna. The banks robbed 125,000 debtors with the currency clause franc and another 200,000 debtors with the euro and kuna currency clause, one for exchange rate and interest, and the other only for interest totalling 20 billion kuna. Such banks must be ordered by law by a moratorium, a mandatory moratorium on all loans for those citizens and for those companies that are not liquid without any charge. And that's why SDP and I personally proposed a special law on the basis of which we would now approve moratorium for non-legival citizens and non-legival businesses. The second thing we suggested was a temporary ban on all matters. There's no execution while this crisis is going on. The government said there will be no execution, but it did not propose any regulation but again something to talk to the believers, no enforcement, no goodbyes. It's hard to ban the performance, temporarily unblock all accounts of blocked citizens while the crisis is going on, when the crisis goes through, we go back to the past, but the crisis takes a deblocking of all accounts. The next thing, the reduction pays everyone evenly not even evenly but roughly equal to the same amount, and not to those who have little but to those who have a lot, starting from me and the like, to cut our salaries, if 50% should be, if necessary and for more, to set some limit below which the salary should not be, for example. Let it be an average income for those who have higher incomes, and those who have lower incomes if they have an average and less than average do not reduce anything, very simple. It may not have any major consequences on the budget itself, but it will show an example of our compassion for our citizens. Next thing you know, you're banning the layoff of workers, but not unconditionally, but only allowing workers to be fired on business terms and conditions. What does business-conditional termination mean? It is fired when we guarantee the worker that we will take him back to work when the crisis is over because, of course, there are companies that simply won't be liquid, he won't be able to pay the workers, it is understandable that such a worker must be fired temporarily, but let that resignation then be a business conditioned resignation and, in that case, such a worker must get his job back when the crisis is over. What I don't like about government measures is, first of all, that they come down to the pressure on the budget. The pressure on the budget means that we will be in debt in the future, which means that our public debt will go towards 100% of GDP, that's not good. These measures proposed by the SNAGA party are not only going to the budget but also going to those who owe Croatian citizens such as banks. I repeat, banks owe Croatian citizens 20 billion kuna, but they may even be liable to businesses, they may even be in debt to the state because the banks charged fees for their loans, and these fees are illegal. I hope and believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will simply have to accept most of the measures proposed by the SNAGA party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196183	Thank you, too. Now it is up to the gentleman, the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, who will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196184	Today mankind is in a surreal, I would say in an unrealistic situation if anyone had spoken to us a few months ago about what situation we'd be in, I wouldn't have trusted him first, I wouldn't have trusted him. So we have one crisis that is never greater, the biggest crisis in mankind's recent history, world statesmen say even bigger than the economic crisis that was caused by World War II itself. And it's bigger because most countries, I would dare say almost all the countries of the world are affected by this one global health and economic crisis. And if we try to objectively analyze what it's all about and forget everything that's being served every day from the mainstream media from those major media that are obviously under the influence of the state, we have to get a little bit surprised and ask ourselves a lot of questions that I'm here at, and I wouldn't actually give an answer, but I'm going to ask questions. The crisis began more than three months ago in China, China was blocked for several months. So it's not about a countryman like perhaps our country's only 4 million inhabitants, but it's about a country that has a billion and 400 million inhabitants. And this huge country was the most human in the world in quarantine for months, people didn't leave their homes, they didn't go to work, the state stopped working and nobody else in the rest of the world, and it wasn't suspicious in our Croatia either. These are our statesmen and our government to understand each other, look and do nothing. 29 or 28.01. Andrej Plenkovic, when replacing Minister Kujundzic, said for the first time we have an important health crisis, and we must replace Minister Kujundzic because we must prepare for the attack or crisis caused by the virus. It may have been the first time that he announced, from then to the HDZ elections after a month and a half, he didn't lift a finger. Because he didn't move because he didn't know or didn't want to, I don't know, but that's the question? The second question is why all the other world governments, why the Italians, the Spanish, the French ultimately did not take adequate measures when they saw what was happening in China, why? Didn't these intelligence agencies, secret agencies, give this information that I'm talking to my governments right now? And even I am one representative in a small country like Croatia warned the Croatian government of danger on February 5th, and all these numerous agencies did not warn their governments of the coming crisis. Now it's either totally incompetent or they didn't want to warn. You figure it out yourself, but the question is very interesting. The number of patients is growing unfortunately, today we crossed over and we cut a million, the number of deaths is growing here we are close to 60,000 dead and that number is still growing. I will nevertheless conclude here that most of these dead people have been chronically ill before, and that is the fact that there are very few healthy people, young people who have died because of this disease. So a strange scenario is surreal, unrealistic and I wonder if maybe this crisis is welcome for some sectors. I'm going to name one sector, and it's called the banking sector. Banks have been struggling for years to place their money, a lot of money, cheap money they even gave without interest. Suddenly, all the countries of the world and our Croatia are flocking to banks on the international market, wherever they are looking for money to save their national economies. An interesting coincidence, however, to know that one of this crisis is benefiting because all countries of the world are in considerable economic debt at the moment. From who? Banks. And the other fact is that banks had a big problem with the placement of their funds, that they had lots of money, billions and billions of dollars or euros that they couldn't place. And now Croatia has suddenly sobered up, the HDZ elections have ended, the old HDZ president is the new HDZ president, which is Andrej Plenkovic, he has swept up competition and is free to deal with the crown crisis. Suddenly such a wise, and in fact, politically invents a new body, some new faces, there is a new minister of beauty, a child face Mr. Beros and a little older Mr. Bozinović earthquake and then mostly moves in the process with the crown crisis. And suddenly we have a new body that has absolute powers, this body of the Croatian Parliament has given it the opportunity to do whatever he wants. And on all the media we have one real agitprop, yesterday in "Open" three men, three politicians from the ruling party, zero from the opposition. Look at any news from HRT that won't convey my speech or any other national television, you won't be able to see or in some side frames you'll see opposition and people who are critical of the government's measures towards this crisis. And the mouth will be full of journalists, programme leaders, to praise the Croatian government's measures. The funniest thing was to watch the "Open" show yesterday, where even the children of glory eventually celebrate the excellent conduct of the Civil Headquarters and even draw them as Supermans and Batmans. Do we have any objectivity? Well, I don't think we do. I've asked a lot of questions and here's every citizen to question what's really going on with this crisis, but I think that time is going to show or maybe someone's getting really well prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196185	Thank you very much, Mr. Zekanovic. I was in Zagreb during the earthquake and I assure you that the country was shaking. Here you go, sir. Wait a minute. There's only Hrvoje Zekanovic. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It doesn't say. Okay, come on, we'll be tolerated, when the situation is extraordinary, it needs to be tolerated. But nobody said you know otherwise it would say... No, they're very valuable associates here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, sir... The loudspeaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196186	Thank you like... thank you very much. Thank you. [[Intruder Radin: See how tolerated I am.]] Here I am today being lined up by heads today, experts in general practice, economists, experts in all kinds of heads, populists, I don't know, but I'd just say about this virus, we should respect neutral sources, no one knows how long this will take, no one knows, no Baba Wang, there's no Brothers to treat us look, no one invited him somewhere like some other head like these NGOs. So you have experts you have a model dynamics of spreading this disease and we see that progress every day. You have the University of South Korea they are already familiar with SARS, MERS etc. And he needs them, it's a neutral source to listen to them, and I think they're on the right track for neutral sources. Of course, we can't separate politics from the economy today from the coronary virus. Economic measures, there is Mr. Maric our... here for the economy, but I think that the first step must be every economic measure that we are talking about solidarity as Mr. Hrelja said, that we are taking care of the most sensitive group of people here, these are disabled, old heads, etc. It's the right hand, not the red right hand that first secured the money for three generations and they can tell us whatever they want, but we still don't have the origin of the property or the names of the heads that have the bank accounts outside, and we know that maybe they were all in the party. Economic measures and what to invest in right now, a lot of heads have already talked about what to invest in here. The critical infrastructure, the fire-season is coming, the water, that's what one head said before me that's been repeated ten times today, we're losing 48% of the water through going out. Soon you will see war that God does not give Sudan-Egypt water, if example 1 changes the course of the Nile what will be, 1% of the water is drinking water it must ensure and of course what Mr. Bulj repeated ten times food is a strategic resistor and all other heads. I agree with the heads although this peasant head HSS is more I'd say like some kind of South American Marxist group, not related to HSS, but of course food and there I agree with them and I'd like to see their origins. Of course after all this, this is going to go away, there have been worse times, we know that the global market has fallen 20% in the last two months. This is going to be worse, so I'm not going to be Grandma Wang here right now, but it's already visible that these car supply chains have been lifted since three months behind the delivery and China is the main supplier for some parts of the cell phone, and I think this is going to be worse than in 2008 a breakdown, an economic breakdown. And now it's time not only for economic security but it's time now the crisis is the best incentive, crisis and fear for real structural reforms, which no government has ever done. The grey economy is twice what it was in the EU and we know that there are many Croats on the issue of creative accounting they are masters on this issue. And the implementation of this plan, I think Mr. Maric will be very important on the ground, which someone said that some heads don't get on the train as they've been boarding there since 90 and some years. How is it possible in one country that a crawd like a small example of spending state money could spend $170,000 on a national team without answering anyone? So is the grey economy and now the professionalization of the administration and now it's time for all these institutions to work in synchronization, to see that money comes where it should come from. I'm about to cut wages here, but I'll also mention that the parties have a huge portion of the funds in their bank accounts, millions of kunas, and that should be used. Maybe you should give it up, not think about the election, that's what I said before. Millions of kunas are there, you can hunt anywhere that's critical, we know what the priority is. And you know Mr. Jovanovic what the priority is. And in the end, I'd say, someone here today is a member I think the CNS was talking about Hungary that Hungary was the first victim of the coronary virus. Let's talk about the data. Hungary is, according to all economic data, 6 places above the Republic of Croatia, GDP per head is bigger... Don't talk about democracy. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Speaking of democracy here, let me remind you of your former internships, today I passed when we talk about isolation I passed on to Kresimir Square there a political prisoners' association I saw a man for 12 years who'd been peeling in Leprechaun for your rat-head for 12 years and there he only ate chicken buttocks for 12 years, he didn't see a letter or package. And you enjoyed the party, today you're fine, you've created a second generation of emigrants. And I would send you all an auditor chief inspector of the Field Marshals I don't know what his property condition is this grouppenfuhrer's new head there, it's the only man, for the inspector the only man from... who was in the party, imagine. You're all networked, I don't trust you. I believe in God and mathematics, I would have solved everything in three months, I'd have you first, I'd have come to your door first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196187	Thank you very much, you've made yourself clear. Ms. Maria Puh will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196188	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Deputy Prime Minister. Here we are again today discussing a second package of measures to help our entrepreneurs and owners. In fact, this situation we found ourselves in, I would say none of us when we were making the budget last year had any idea that something like this might happen, and it really happened to us almost overnight. I believe that the state is sending its own measures a clear message to monitor the situation and welcomes it as ready as possible. Those first measures that were taken and which were, were going towards maintaining health, towards prevention, towards protecting our most endangered citizens. Although even then, when these measures were adopted, there were considerable objections and objections to the work of headquarters, today with a break from, I think, for about a month, it is evident that the measures that were then prescribed and which were adopted were well thought out and that they brought the result because, as we can see from all the tables of the Republic of Croatia is in the society of those countries that are most successful against this pandemic that has hit us, which unfortunately knows neither the borders, nor the nations, nor the race, nor the sex. After the concerns and the first measures adopted were aimed at maintaining health, of course it began to think and to find measures to get into this extraordinary situation and our economy and our entrepreneurs as easily as possible through this strange period. In the morning, the Prime Minister presented to us a second set of measures aimed at easing the economic consequences that are yet to be met. What's the direction that goes with these measures, I've been listening a little bit to these last few days since the measures have been presented, and when I see the consensus that exists here amongst us parliamentary deputies and the consent that is obtained by entrepreneurs, I would say that the direction that goes well, that it's thoughtful, of course there's always opportunities for them to be even better, but as I've already said, this sudden situation, I think we've prepared quite well for it. Payment of minimum wages and payment of contributions for workers whose companies cannot work now, I think it is the most valuable measure and will have the best effect in preserving, in maximum preservation of the number of jobs and in some ways provide safety for all our workers. Instead of the original 3.250,00 kn, payment of £4,000,00 by the state and with paid contributions for that amount, totalling €5.460,00 per employee. The activation of this measure, as far as I could see, has already been requested by nearly 70,000 entrepreneurs, and this applies to the boredom of 420,000 workers according to the estimates that have been made, the figure to which this coverage will be around 6,000 workers. The discharge of non-working or job-threatening entrepreneurs is also significantly affected by this pandemic by the release from tax duties and the introduction of the obligation to pay VAT only at the expense of the invoices issued. And I think that this measure will help keep our economies and our entrepreneurs alive and help them during this period that is yet to come. Also, I don't know if anyone mentioned it today or not, it's not fatal, but I think it's very helpful and a lot of entrepreneurs contacted me about it, it's moving the deadline for making and handing over annual financial reports from 30.4. on June 30th. In these strange conditions of difficulty movement and potential risk of infection will be protected and many accountants who will be able to better determine their protocols and work with their committees because we know that in this last month before the release of annual financial reports can be quite lively, done throughout the days and nights, so in this way they will be significantly relieved of this period. I'm optimistic because the government's response to this crisis isn't what it was when the crisis happened to us in 2009. As I remember then going towards tax increases, which, of course, resulted in a decrease in consumption, and these measures that are now set and based primarily on keeping jobs and people having income, I hope that there should be no significant disturbance in consumption in the future. This crisis that has happened to us now seems terrible, but I believe that it might also be an opportunity for us to change our economic policy. We all know that so far our foreign trade deficit has covered tourism. This may be our chance to find a way to strengthen and strengthen our production. As far as production is concerned, I especially think we should put emphasis on agriculture. We saw for ourselves what was happening at times when there was an announcement of a crisis, when a possible quarantine was announced, all citizens rushed to supermarkets, there were huge ranks because there was simply fear in people of shortages. Stronger agricultural production would not only help the economy, but would also provide safety for people in future events that can happen to us, so that such a reflex reaction does not happen again that it rushes into supermarkets immediately and goes with stockpiling because we will be certain in some way if we produce our own food. What I'd like to mention, anyway, is that I don't think we should, and this has already been mentioned here today, that there should be no significant reduction in state investment or God forbid their total abolitions. The capital and municipal projects carried out both by the state and the local self-government units, I believe, should continue to continue to the same extent, and, if possible, with the help of possibly more resources that we have not used to increase them. It is extremely necessary that that part of the work that can still be done uninterrupted, of course by respecting the epidemiological picture and the epidemiological instructions that they are working to make it easier to start an economy and return to our previous life at least it will never be the same again, but in some way to go back. Several ministries had called for tenders and public calls for units of local self-government and that the situation was normal as it should have been, these tenders should have already been published. I hope that there has only been a delay in publishing the results given the situation in which we are and that there will be no and that there will be no suspension of these supports which are also for local self-government units which will also have to be significantly audited and directed towards their budgets and see how they can overcome this crisis. This epidemic, I think, is an opportunity for us to put our heads together, as we Zagorci know how to say, and to find a policy that will economically not only restore us and return us to the track where we were before this pandemic, but also give us an additional power to fix our place on the scales that measure the economy and economic activity. A large number of countries have done invisiblely certain measures in 2010. Years of the last crisis, and I think we could use that opportunity now. And of course we need to monitor the situation because, as we see ourselves, it changes from day to day and unfortunately none of us have a crystal ball so that we can tell when it will end and how it will end and that we need to prepare further measures to protect our fellow citizens' health primarily, and beyond that and how to get out of this crisis as little as possible. The Party of Labour Club and Solidarity and Independent Representatives supports this package of laws that we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196189	Thank you, Your Honor. We're going to an individual debate. The first reported representative of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196190	Thank you, Vice President. During the debate of this individual, or free speech, I made most of my views, so I won't be too long, waiting for other colleagues to say anything during this debate. I'll do it again. I'd say the main guidelines. We told Prime Minister Plenkovic during the first package of measures and I told him through the replica that these measures were not enough, these measures that were in the first package that people could not be promised write-off but my replica went in the direction of the delay, and I also published on my facebook that replica I had towards the prime minister. The prime minister then said it was some kind of initial measure the government is proposing and would go with new measures. However, I think that we are late, that we should have responded immediately to this crisis and this challenge, that we should have gone immediately with clear and concrete measures to write down all the givens. Also, the grants and the financing of a special line towards our craftsmen and entrepreneurs, and what we are looking for and what we are looking for within our package of laws, 8 of the law in total, will probably come to the debate there after Easter because on Tuesday we are discussing the SDP package of measures, I don't know how correct it is for colleagues from the SDP, after the vote these legal packages will be, and it may have been fairer that it was also left after the Easter. I don't know how much they're going to hear about what they're proposing, but well, that's their problem and they're going to have to find ways to communicate. We will, apart from these taxes and taxes where we are looking for certain changes, look for a moratorium on performances and loans, and we have written that law and referred it to the procedure. It's simply not fair at this point to take action, to do business, to ask if we've given a particular team out to our entrepreneurs let's give it out to our citizens, our people, people who connect the end with the end, who are simply pressed on by the ends. You've brought them into that position and order to give them in a crisis like this, and it's going to be our proposal. Here is the finance minister, and I expect him to meet urgently with Justice Minister Bosnjakovic, to have the government set up a meeting on the subject and go in that direction. You can't please the banks, I know that you have almost that reflex that you're always on the side of the banks, and never on the side of a small man, and we on the other side and before this crisis and now we want to be on the side of the weakest in our society and in this direction goes this legislative proposal. You don't have to accept it, but you suggest something similar we'll vote for it as we will vote for these government proposals. We don't have a problem with you suggesting it like you have a problem when the opposition suggests something. Whatever you suggest, you won't accept it. And as for wages, we will not allow you to cut and cut wages to those on the first line of defense against the crown of the virus. So we're not going to let you cut your salaries to doctors, we're not going to let you cut your salaries to nurses, we're not going to let you cut your salaries to cops, soldiers, firemen, all those who are involved in the fight against this coronary virus. You called this war, in war heroes don't get paid, but if you're going to cut, start from the county. When you touch the county, when you touch the mayors, when you touch the county institutions, then we can even think about it. And now at this point we're looking for a salary increase, here from this place, ministers here, asking for a raise of salaries for doctors, nurses, for our army, for our police, for our firefighters, so that's the minimum you can make, an increase in wages, that's my message, that's what I end up with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196191	Thank you, dear representative of the bush. We've got a few replicas, the first respected representative of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196192	Here, I would like to say to my colleagues that there is a minister, that the fact that MOST has proposed as amendments to the first measures of the government, that they are now accepted, means not a delay but a write-off. However, the fact, you did well and you said that the biggest problem of the Republic of Croatia is the counties that suck up decentralised money for health care, for education, and basically that money who knows where it is directed is never worse or health care, and school management is not the best. We have examples of us falling ceilings in schools, you could talk more about, here's the former mayor of our chairman Mr. Sanader, that ever since the county without this crisis only from the Dalmatian burns 100,000 people have moved out since the county. The fields are not processed, the irrigation is gone, the markets are, imports from Italy, concessions on the maritime well-fits of their godmothers, party coalition partners, and the coalition in Split-Dalmatia County is called Bene Thank you. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196193	Thank you, colleague Bulj, I absolutely agree with you, but they will guard the county until the last drop of blood. But as they will fight, as Ante Sanader will fight for this litter of art, so we will fight for Croatian doctors, nurses, for our police, our army, if necessary teachers and teachers. As they will protect the county and litter of art, so we will protect our people who are on the first line and we will not let you touch them. Until you begin to remove and cut counties, county institutions, county companies where you waste money, where you buy 300,000,00 kn cars, where you act like the Pharaohs. We won't give it to you, it won't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196194	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196195	Dear Representative Grmoy, unlike that crisis in 2008, we are currently having a completely different crisis and cutting wages in the public system, I don't think it's something that should be on the plate. But you mentioned one thing that I mentioned and in my debate, which is that through collective bargaining, there is Minister Maric, along with the unions, needs to be through collective agreements, so to all those who are on the front line of defense against the Corona virus, which is health workers, it's the military, it's the police, but all others, that they need to be arranged for supplements on the basis of 50 to 100% while the crisis is going on, but it can only be done through collective bargaining because in another way we will do that to some without giving them any.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196196	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196197	You clearly should, I said that, here's the minister I told those people they needed to raise their salaries or some supplement, let them find a way to do it, but that's the minimum I can do. Here, the minister is here, I hope he listens even though he's on the laptop, I understand he's busy now, he's got a lot of work to do, but Croatian doctors and nurses, so the military, the police, all those who defend us from this coronary virus, who are exposed, so they need to meet up and increase receipts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196198	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative, Sagar. Give up? Okay, thanks. [[/Clip intrusion: No response.]] Next individual debate, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196199	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrades, colleagues, respected ministers. When we talk about, here's the whole day of the government's measures, of course these are the second package of measures, we as a trial, and I took the first measures and I took it, but then I warned like my club about the problem means that it's being delayed rather than cancelling the commitments to entrepreneurs, that's what the government has accepted, whether it's too late. However, I heard from my colleagues here, I wasn't here at the time for precautions, that Mr. Bacic said that in 1.9, the first crisis unit around the coronary virus was, uh, 9, excuse me, excuse me, excuse me. 9.1. means in the first month, and after that, even the prime minister said at one point was when it was a shift, i.e. Minister Kujundzic said it is a priority to deal with the coronavirus, and we know that measures have only begun to be given after HDZ, when elections within the HDZ, when the government, the HDZ, ended. So that impression will remain between us, but I would talk about what is very important. It's very important, it's a MOST now, so a colleague of the bush is also mentioned here, it's this write-off i.e. This moratorium on credits and moratorium on purpose. We know that even the executive procedures last from the KKZ Raiffeisen to all those who have done more evil to our people, could not in the countries where they came from and because of the meaning of these people would be at this moment, and other countries have taken such measures, I think the banking sector, and the minister knows, at this point there is, is liquid, but the question now is how to keep it all going. But what I do most of the time and what I suggested as a law and put into emergency procedure, it's the Agricultural Land Act. I'll always say that. It is unclear to me that in the Republic of Croatia we have just under 800,000 hectares of unprocessed land, the state has to take certain measures, half of which is owned by the Republic of Croatia. Two years ago. is the Republic of Croatia, 2 years ago. We passed this law in the assembly and then we passed it in a certain way, local self-government brings programs, the county has to give its opinion, so the ministries. I gave the law to get the county thrown out. to the county i.e. Is that simply the way of a kosara car, not to say everyone's holding and nobody's giving up, and so far is not divided but 11,000 hectares, means 1 or 2% of the agricultural land. I call on the minister, the prime minister, here's the 5th time I'm saying that it's very important for us to be self-sufficient, that it's amazing that we import pork in Croatia most of the food products, but even weirder than that. We bake products import a billion kunas, baker's products, and Slavonia is unprocessed. I don't know what kind of policies they were. I don't understand today why the markets are closed, and the trade chains are open, where we have Italian pomidores, where we are now going to get Spanish strawberries and there are conditions, so they're better at the market if we stick to measures and it's very easy to do in markets open to people selling their vegetables, fruits and dairy products. Well, we can't afford import lobbys now. It's not me... Tomato or pomidora, we can have it. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I would just, I mean, it's unclear to me, it's unclear to me logic, it's unclear to me logic, colleagues and colleagues may be funny to you, but it's unclear to me how we might be importing 3 billion euros of food products, and the land is unprocessed. Well, it's not us, I mean, I can't accept it at all. So the measures must be strong and immediately and Minister Vukkovic, and this government must wake up. She can't be this all the time, "Alice in Wonderland." The law on the allocation of agricultural land does not work. Agricultural land is to be farmed, agricultural land is processed freedom in times of crisis. Well, enough of the silos that robbed these wheat on the paws and paws, let alone these grains, grains. I mean, I can't figure out that we're not taking these measures. We've been talking about this for a month. And I don't get it, and here it's actually clear that import lobbys within the ministries have done a huge job, but in the interest of foreign producers. And finally, water, forests, agricultural land, these are our resources that we must protect and protect and defend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196200	Thank you to Honorable Representative Buljo. Next debate, distinguished representative Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196201	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm just gonna keep going for a little bit on what's in front of the club and, of course, welcome these measures, but I don't think there's any doubt about it and let's try to see what we can do next. What I started with the theme in front of the club is exactly the day after these measures stopped, when there is no more tax exemption, when there are no more one-time payouts for employees, how will our economy behave, how will employers function? And that's actually the next step that we have to think about in these months or two, as long as it's supposed to take all these measures, think and wait ready. One of these proposals is the application of Art. 3. 131. The Public Procurement Act, which speaks of a negotiating procedure without prior publication, calls specifically to extend that possibility of ordering small-value purchases or to thresholds to 3 offers or higher of those values in order to make it right where we know we have to do something faster and employ as many people as possible through certain sectors. What I would just suggest is that, I don't know, I didn't see in the measures, to postpone the lease of state space, and write off for those who are banned, because it doesn't make sense, given that everything is going in that direction any more or less, so that we also think that, to those who have been banned from working, we don't burden them with regard to the rent. Let's also say one of the measures would be to allow a blue dilde for construction machinery, modeling fisheries, for agriculture, given the same as one of the sectoral aid measures for construction. The question is one thing, the only thing with workers who have ended a contract on certain measures, is it then either they have to be extended or they will be considered a fall of employees according to how we interpret it, it is certainly considered a fall of employees? And the last thing I wanted to say about the moratorium. I got a message here and it says next. Dear Sir, on your request to postpone payment of liabilities per loan, please provide us with the following documentation for the purpose of processing the request. So, the entrepreneur signed up to delay his wars or delay his moratorium. It says this, the analytical tables excluded with 31.12.2019, the annual financial report of 31.12. and 31.3., the gross balance sheet with 31.12. and 31.3., the tax administration's confirmation of the absence of debt, bon 2, statement for HROK. So, it's not just like that to come to this, I'm practically reading that very little is different from the new credit debt and that all the documentation goes if we want to raise some new credit. I don't see it here, especially I don't understand this tax clearance of the tax administration about the lack of debt to the Commercial Bank, it, I can't even figure it out like this, but good. So, I'm afraid, and this is an appeal to all banks not to abuse what was given to them, and it's given them a lot in the reduction of mandatory reserves and in the way that all credits or those who are, don't now have to go to reservations, so let them do as we obviously have the report and from our businessmen to solve HZZ more or less spottically, that the payments are bigger seats for these aids, that they simply don't play there too much bureaucracy, especially in this time burdening accounting, and especially if we have extended the deadline for handing over the annual financial reports to 30.6. and you're practically now going to have to do all these reports and of course complicate something that should be quite simple, and that's 3 months no one has to pay anything, you go on for 3 months there to stop. Literally moratorium, everything stands, nothing, no interest, nothing. Now, why, how, I appeal to all the banks to make it possible for them to meet, is this certainly a misuse of the trust that this government has given them, to which everything has made it possible and all of what we here want to do with these measures right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196202	Thank you to Honorable counsel Curai. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196203	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm glad Minister Maric is here, and I'm sorry he's not a culture minister because I'm going to dedicate my debate to the state of culture. When the epidemic broke out, one of the first messages to people both by psychologists and by the headquarters was to stay home, stay home, read books, listen to music, watch movies, watch theatre shows that are on TV, watch and listen to recorded concerts, it's a good time. On the other hand, as you know, there are no public gatherings in the decision of the headquarters. We forbade cultural workers to work, no theatre performances, no concerts, no book presentations, no movies. We can't skip that fact, by decision, so the authorities, these people are being prevented from working. And we need to know who it's about. It's about people who usually have, in normal circumstances, the weakest jobs, the least paid, the least fees. A large part of the sector lies on the shoulders of the feeble workers, people who do not have a permanent job, people who do not have permanent contracts, these are people who are fighting for a place under the sun with their creation, for a new value. They create not only new ideas, but also new values, they pay taxes neatly, but they pay the salaries of many in the public sector. The conclusion of the Government is practically required that cultural institutions cease to finance anything that is not considered a basic drive. What exactly does that mean? Among other things, it means that there will probably be no new prime ministers this year, that there will be no new projects, that what started will not be completed and that the cultural drive, regardless of those in permanent institutions or independent cultural workers, will practically stop. And we need to know that independent culturers, so those who create, what our house has doors and windows, which is open to, what we grow by, which is not only our identity, not only are the weakest ones paid otherwise in a scale of all possible jobs but they are not regularly because they are not constantly employed or creditworthy, they are not mostly property owners, the vast majority of them live as tenants, without income are condemned to the horror of human existence. The culture ministry has decided that for all those for whom the state pays taxes and contributions, that is around 1400, it will provide compensation at different levels. One is 1.625.00, the other is 3.250,00 kn, considering their incomes last year. Ministers, please don't forget that at this hour the mainstream and large and small cultural institutions in the Republic of Croatia owe them millions of dollars, and that they paid their fees in time, that they paid what they did last year, they would have a far better starting position. Now this government decision, which practically blocks the payments of everything that is not necessary, will put us in a position to wonder if the HNK in Split will pay 3 million kunas of debts to its external associates without talking about other institutions. So it's about tens of millions of kuna debts to people who've done their job according to contracts, but they're not paid, and now they're in these scissors that they'll probably have to be on the lowest scale possible. It's not right. And cultural entrepreneurship is entrepreneurship, without them we're weaker, without them we're a question of what, if we have an identity, let's not forget them, it's not about the mass of people. Today we have heard in the address of both the prime minister and the minister that already about 400,000 people are actually considered a target group of these measures, and there may be several thousand of them. Let's not forget them. Here, I appeal, let's not let culture stay in the mud, it's the most important and progressive thing we have. When the summer ahead guarantees that there will be no new cultural production because institutions and festivals will be closed, let's not forget them, and these people have to eat, they have to pay their directories, they have to pay their rent, they have to provide their children with at least minimum minimums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196204	Thank you to Reverend Richembergh. The next is the debate of the distinguished representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196205	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. By listening to the debates of clubs today and individually, I am asking myself whether my colleagues and colleagues have read the proposal in sufficient detail these three amendments to the law. We, with these amendments to the law, create preconditions to solve a bunch of these problems that are being talked about here today. At the same time, however, we must be aware of one thing that these three proposals of the law on the one hand regulate and direct us to the revenue side of the state budget which is definitely less due to everything that is going on, and because of these reduced economic activities and limited economic activities, the expenditure side of the state budget will grow. At the same time, in these two draft laws, the Government proposes a model and a way to legally resolve and help those who have lost their income on the one hand is to pay their wages, on the other hand, the other is to provide for compensation or replacement revenues for those who will be left without these revenues. However, I personally ask myself one question whether we are aware that at this point on a ship called the state budget is loaded somewhere in 700 or whether it will be boarded somewhere in 700, 800,000 new passengers and whether the ship's pilot, which is the Government and the finance minister, is very consciously ordering that those small boats that float around that ship not to sink them, because it is not the purpose of certain measures to help one, and to drown others. And if you look at the General Tax Act a little bit better then it is clearly stated for those who have stopped doing what will happen to them, what rights they have, and I will repeat what I said this morning, in fact in the replica, Minister Marić, these 4,000 kunas are not 4,000, who is 5,820 or 825 kuna, because what these 4,000 have to pay in pension and health on the spending side of the state budget and HZZO is creating expenditures that simply have to be settled, and there will be no income, there will be no one to pay them who pays that salary, and the state will pay that salary. However, we need to know that the assessment is that by the end of 4. There may be nearly 600,000 of those who will use this payout model that these people in the past months have had far more income than they have today and that their separation into retirement in health so as to base income tax which the local self-government units' budgets have been far more generous, far higher. So when you add that 1,820, 1,825 to that difference that will no longer appear in the state budget and in the budget of the unit of local self-government, then the complexity of this bill should be seen. And the logical thing is that fellow MPs every single segment or micro group or economy or society suggests that we have to solve and that's good. But what's crucial is, do we see in this bill that this can be solved, I see, simply in amendments to the General Tax Law and amendments to the Law on the implementation of the state budget, I see that the government is opening up space to solve these problems. Because look, we need to be aware of the fact that there must be mutual responsibility and respect for the rules we make in this business first. And that's why I'm glad, and that's why I'm going to repeat that the government has installed this section 6 in Art. 1 for users of the measures pursuant to this Article, which are subsequently determined to have exercised the right for himself or other persons under the provisions of this Article, which he did not have the right to be liable to do so. It is simply such a message that has to be sent because this ship will try to get those who do not have the right to do so, and at the same time in today's debates, we have seen how much each of us in our knowledge think that there are those who would have the right to do so, and that is the complexity of this job. And that is why we must be aware of the government's support for this bill of law and another thing that, by adopting these laws, we are giving the government space to solve right now a series of these problems that colleagues have discussed today and are likely to discuss by the end of today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196206	Thank you to Honorable counsel Shuker. The next debate is the distinguished representative Grosdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196207	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister of Finance. So here's what I said and in the replica, it surprises the attitude of some colleagues who were very skeptical in advance of taking those March measures, and they don't really realize how important it is to see the integrity of all segments and components of the economy and society as a whole so that they can react well, and to listen to all the problems that arise precisely in these extraordinary situations. This intervention on the General Tax Law then the Accounting Act and the State Budget Law actually enables this roof law, organic, general tax law to solve a lot of problems and we know that since 2008 when it was adopted, and then it has seen a lot of changes, it allows for a very high-quality instrument to be able to regulate relations with tax authorities, as regards taxpayers to local self-government units and other public enterprises, and this is a very high quality solution where they are allowed to be paid off in a period of up to 24 months in some cases. The intervention is on Article 107a. The law already amended in March, however, with these amendments is particularly specific. What special attention has she given now? It is precisely that the payment of tax liabilities without the billing of interest is 3 + 3 months and what I said 24 months which is very significant and perhaps should also be referred to this part by blocked citizens where it would be very easy for them to pay off their debt. We see that this is also the way that it works to preserve jobs, and it is very important that this net payment of 4,000 kuna is increased for these contributions because it is actually the untaxable amount that is very much helping to avoid major erosion and large layoffs. When we talk about here the impact of all these changes on the revenues of the state budget then we must be very careful because we see that this way, both with all these changes and with the crisis, is also affecting consumption. I would warn of another fact, which is the units of local self-government that will lose a significant portion of income tax revenue and the government here in carrying out the state budget predicted that it would be compensated with a unscathed loan for the part that is actually coming back, or which is in return to the citizens. I appeal there that this part can be expanded because it is not only the amount lost in the income of local self-government units but a much larger amount, and this would greatly facilitate the functioning of local self-government units, which must take care of budget rebalancing, cost reduction. Well, here's an example of my city that's already reduced the rent for companies that can't work. The first measures reduced or abolished the memorial rent which is intended, and then the residence tax, etc., therefore it is very important to regulate whether VAT payments on this expected income or not, that this is regulated and, in any event, all praise for these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196208	Thank you. Dear MPs Peric one replica, the esteemed representative of Šuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196209	Thank you very much. My colleague Peric, in an individual debate over the short period of time, I don't think I've arrived. I think you've opened one topic well, and these are the units of local self-government. As a reduction in revenues will occur at the level of the state budget, so will a reduction in revenues on, in units of local self-government for a simple reason, is one income tax, but as the state goes towards those who do not work, you cannot charge someone something if it does not work, such a communal fee that is the second source of income by the size of local self-government units you will not be able to charge from those companies that do not do this. And I think when we talk about responsibility then at all levels of government, both from local to state, we just have to do it, everyone has to make projections of what's going to happen to them because they have a database that companies have asked for funding from these salaries. Therefore, these companies do not work and their payment of municipal fees and other fees to local self-government units is questionable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196210	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196211	That's right, thank you very much, yes, and it's very short to have much more to say, indeed every unit has to make projections and see how much they're really going to lose from the income tax expected in the regulatory conditions and then at that height or in some percentage to enable this precisely unambiguous loan because that's how it makes it possible to function, with all units having to take care of the savings, to save and not spend on what is not necessary. I would also, but it cannot be stopped, let's say, some of the investments that are under way, were related to the European Funds, to what has already been signed, agreed, etc., and what is most necessary. So it really needs to be taken care of. I would also point out that everyone thanks to healthcare professionals, police officers, firefighters, merchants, carriers and statisticians who have done and are doing volunteer work every day here in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196212	Thank you, Representative Peric. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196213	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Remember this day because there was a horror today. One of us who moves in human form dared to say that the whole country was paralyzed because a grandfather had decided to live. So, gentlemen, if those are the words of one representative, then we who suffer it among ourselves are also in some way threatened because all of what we do honorably is throwing us away such stains. I won't speak because I despise at this point and his name, and read on social networks in one renowned portal everything he said. A man can't say that. A man can't say that. These are our roots, that these people who live with honor, who have done their part, who are our parents that they will not be us. My people, if we're going to say so, then you better not, people, watch who you choose next time. I have no words, I have no words to express anger, contempt for such advances. It's not human. Is this image aware that it spreads... or ageism as it's written or impatient towards the elderly and it's not the first time and it's not the first time. That behavior is my people's inadmissible in this society. And if we who are aware of our parents ’ respect for them, because this proves that we respect our lives, that this respects the lives of our children, we do not speak clearly and loudly, then this society will not be healthy. It's not healthy if we let this happen and it's never going to heal if we don't talk about it, there's going to be some kind of adventurer that's going to crack on something that this civilization, this democratic reach that we've come to cannot possibly endure. It's inhumane, it's uncivilized, it's inhumane. If I were to stop with this tirad, and it deserves all your tirads, I would just say something else that I was saying on behalf of the club about the need to set up a solidarity system in this country, the greater the crisis, and the longer it lasts, the more we need to set up this stronger system of solidarity. The system of solidarity is not a system of volunteering and benevolence, the system of solidarity is a system that must ensure that everyone in society during the crisis from the situation in which we live and we are working, come out wounded, scratched, mortified, mentally weary, but to get out alive so that they can get up again so that they can walk, fly, that they can enjoy after all this expensive goes away, it's our duty to have systems that ensure life after this, after this pandemic of the coronary virus, but for that we need to think and try without being in power, they've been in opposition, and it's worth every effort, every minute and every second of our thinking. Let us be positive, think of all our citizens and share the fate of very solidarity with them and create a system of solidarity. I appeal to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196214	You said some hard words, but here. We have two replicas. Dear Representative Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196215	Thank you, Vice President. I join your condemnation of such statements in public, inappropriate statements. We are organized human society, we are not a pack of wolves, so this is no way to talk in public space, especially not a representative in the Croatian Parliament to make such statements. We live in sensitive times, and it is vital that everyone in this society keep an eye on what they say. Today, a retired professor on Croatian Radio came forward and asked the editors and members who were there, members of the government and representatives of the union not to be used in that space and that concept that is applicable to the real sector because then she said, and then what we are in the public sector, we are irrational. So everything we are saying today in public space should be measured because we are all affected by this crisis and that is why it is not necessary to stegmatise certain members of society, and especially not in this way because the person of older life is evaluated in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196216	Thank you to the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196217	I thank my colleague Sagar for his understanding. Don't think it was easy to say these words. You who have long known me, you know I never said words like this, but I don't care for a second, and I'm not sorry that I said them because they deserve every single one of us, not just our own, but all the honorable people of this society who live solidarity among the generations, who advocate let's say harmony between the young and the old generations in this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196218	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196219	I think it's important to say that Mr. Ivan Pernar then after C vitamin is now another new squadron, we regret that our colleague is our parliamentary representative, but I hope the citizens will know in the next election who they will vote for. What's on social media today is absolutely for all the convictions because it doesn't matter if someone has 80, 90, whether they're 30, 40 or 20 years old, everyone needs to fight because they're human beings, and Mr. Pernar doesn't realize that we are against this threat, we can only fight this virus with the methods of the 19th century, and this quarantine. This means that social distance is the only medicine that can help to get stuck in this crown both young and old, and that we should not get stuck because the health system must withstand this pressure. Mr. Pernar doesn't understand it and unfortunately I as a hematologist can't help him.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196220	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196221	Thank you. Dear fellow Mrssic that you said what I said that I would not say out of contempt for that act. I think that's okay with me, too, but since you've been referring to my presentation, then I have to say that the image said that the elderly should be abolished and the right to vote on what I've also reacted to in my time, it was, though, at the beginning of the mandate, and I was hoping that maybe it would change a little bit, and that it would learn something, but it's obvious that some people don't have anything going on in their heads.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196222	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Peja Grbin is the next individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196223	Dear colleagues and colleagues, when we began to discuss these measures that the government presented a few days ago, and yesterday, from the session, we made it clear to the Croatian Parliament that they are far better than those adopted in March. Those adopted in March were probationary, they did not solve almost one serious problem. These are much better than that. But just because they're better doesn't mean they're perfect doesn't mean they're gone and I'd say a significant place to fix it. Given the time I'm gonna stop here with the introduction, and I'm gonna try to count the things that I keep in mind for the next few minutes to be fixed. First of all, the measures do not talk about protected rentals, it is a particularly sensitive category of Croatian society which is particularly affected by the earthquake because many of them lived in apartments in the center of Zagreb which are now damaged. I would ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take measures to protect the protected tenants and ensure that they can settle their obligations, in particular the moratorium to raise fees or to raise rents. Next is the lease problem. First, what my colleague Curaj was saying, which is a matter of regulations to enable the state as well as units of local self-government to free users of business spaces from paying the rent. I think we need to do this under emergency, and I hope that the government will make an appropriate regulation within the next few days. However, we have another problem with this, which is the tax treatment of the situation in which the owner of the business space frees the user of the business space of the rent. Many of these situations we have, people have gone out to the tenants because they know they're better off saving someone who's gonna stay and work when the crisis goes down than throwing out and risking whether they'll ever find someone new. However, such use of the business space must also be subject to tax which is not addressed to these measures. The problem that is not mentioned, which should be solved, is the problem of the seamen. Many sailors have come to me, and they are also seriously affected by this crisis, and the measures that are directed towards them are not adequate. The following problem is workers who have one or more shares of the company they work in. These workers have been excluded, a week ago I warned, the ministry has announced a solution to the problem, but until today the problem has not been solved. I appeal to you, I plead to get rid of it, it's present in tourist companies, it's present in others, it's present where there was privatisation, it's present where there was working stockholdering. The person who has one share may be a formal co-owner, but with this one share he does not influence the business of his business, must have the right to support. Another category of workers has been compromised, and these are students workers. We've been informed today that for students, workers are not allowed to issue passes, please update this situation, it's not a lot of people, but it's about people who need that money. If they live in Velika Gorica for example, they are students, they should travel to work in Zagreb they cannot because they are not allowed to issue passes. I'm glad that at this point Minister Cappelli, this previous one may have gone more to Minister Maric, but this goes directly to Minister Cappelli because it refers to workers who were supposed to start working mostly 1.4, and you and I both know what kind of workers are involved, primarily tourism workers. The question I have received and which I am asking you is whether these workers will be hired by the employer or by the employer for these workers if they are hired to have the right to this assistance, which is now set at 4,000 kuna. So that's a question that kills both employers and workers. I saw you yesterday on a similar question for the workers who got fired, which if the employer hired them again, said you didn't know the answer, I hope you found out by now, and it would be very, very good to go out for the pay phone and give that answer. The last thing I'm going to talk about, I'm left with 30 seconds, maybe I'm bored with it, but I think it should be reiterated, repeatedly stressed until the government starts to solve the problem, and that's the question of the judiciary. Last Friday, the minister announced a reference to the law procedure that will address the issue of deadlines, as well as many other problems in the work of the judiciary. Such a law has not yet come into the process, I appeal to the government since I was told from the ministry that the law is almost ready, to refer the law to the procedure during the weekend at a telephone session so that we can discuss the law on Monday, and to vote on Tuesday because it is an extremely serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196224	Thank you. We've got two replicas, the first distinguished representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196225	Thank you very much, fellow coat of arms. You and I know well that this government passed a law where they didn't care about protected tenants at all. The protected tenants are certainly still in the added problem of the earthquake in the City of Zagreb. When it comes to people who had to leave their apartments because they couldn't be in them, the government said that there were 30 apartments available and that they would be arranged and received by certain people. And the City of Zagreb, although we have data that the City of Zagreb has 7100 apartments, which is the City of Zagreb, which is Holding, the City of Zagreb has said that there are 0 apartments that can be solved for people who really died in the earthquake. This earthquake has actually shown the extent of damage in the city of Zagreb which for many years has been and have resulted now, so 7,000 apartments, and when it comes to meeting citizens and protected tenants 0. I'm afraid they'll stay really unprotected maximum.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196226	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196227	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Mrak Taritash, you know that I wrote that we together as parliamentary representatives have applied for an assessment of the constitutionality of this law that regulates the issue of protected tenants and I am taking this opportunity to ask, to plead, to appeal, however you wish, to the Constitutional Court to solve this problem as soon as possible. These people are in an unspeakable situation, a report sent by the government at the end of last year showed that protection measures did not have any effect at all. And now there's been a crisis with the coronary virus and then another earthquake in the City of Zagreb. I believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should react hastily and the direction in which it should go is next. Returning the rent to the amount that was at the time of the law, moratorium until the Constitutional Court's decision, and certainly in the worst case, moratorium as long as this crisis continues and as long as the consequences of the earthquake in the city center of Zagreb are not removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196228	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196229	Dear colleague, you mentioned the VAT issue, I mentioned the authority because it was too short for me to elaborate longer. So, VAT either for private tenants, whether for local self-government, is calculated on the invoiced lease. Otherwise, in this case, tax authorities that come in control one day may be obliged to pay VAT on the expected income if we do not state it as something that is conditional, so if it is 0 kuna, if the city or the renter of the aliquot is given up, that it is not really in the obligation to pay VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196230	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196231	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, as far as local self-government units are concerned, I wasn't talking about VAT, I was talking about renting as such. So, units of local self-government are bound to charge and bill, you've been head of finance, you know that very well, they're obliged to charge the rent. And they have no legal basis without amending the law on the lease of a business space in order to reduce or release the lease. As a result, I appeal to amend the law on the lease of business space as soon as possible in the procedure. However, when we talk about rent tax, it is not only value added tax, there is income tax or income tax. Income tax is calculated by tax administrations not by what is in the contract but by their estimates. And you, if you're not paying and you've freed your tenant from paying the rent, you still have to pay the tax. At this point, in this situation, I don't think it's justified for both those tenants and those tenants who have agreed otherwise or that no pay really needs to be made to meet, the more they, as private entrepreneurs of another private entrepreneur, have freed for solidarity. Here, I'm sorry I overstepped. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196232	Thank you. The next debate of the distinguished representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196233	Dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to look back here if these measures that we have in front of us today were speaking in part about the write-off of certain donations and that's what's good. I would also like to say, I see here a resolute tourism minister, that I have a number of hotelers who have planned to expand their accommodation capacity, but in these circumstances with these investments care, it is very important that these investment projects are launched. I therefore appeal this way since we have a green light from the European Commission so that we can change thematic location within the EU funds' priorities that you actually use as much resources as possible for energy efficiency in tourism and industry so that this fixed part of the costs to our hotelers and that this investment cycle simply does not stop. I would also like to talk here about pensioners who have up to 500,00 kn pensions, they are about 95000, and they are also about 185,000 those who have pensions up to 1,000,00 kn, they are extremely difficult in this period because they need to be supplied for several days not to actually go to the store daily. With these amounts, it is simply impossible, and I believe that certain one-time aid that can be paid to their accounts that is known, all their data are known to HZMO. I was also approached by a number of students who worked through a student service, unfortunately a number of them canceled their jobs because they mainly worked at malls, T-centers or something like that, they ran out of that extra income. The additional income focused on the existence of them and their families. It is simple that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has provided every student with 150 euros in the Corona period, I believe that at that moment that money will also be able to withdraw from European funds because we know that we are now funding scholarships, socially affected families from European funds. As for my mother and they have spoken to me, they are particularly concerned about those mothers who are running out of parental leave. Namely, they have young children for over a year, but they simply need to go to work, and they have no one to trust their children with their care because simply kindergartens and schools do not work. I therefore appeal, and I have also appealed to the minister's email to extend this parental leave to three months additional. As for the eu funds, I warned Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic this morning about two decisions taken yesterday at the government, and they concern the suspension of all public calls and all public tenders from all sources of funding. It is that the decision states that a certain part will still be released, but it is left to the Minister of Finance's decision. Since I have been involved in the work of the Government for a while, and I know how my fellow state support colleagues, and there are only a few of them that it is one narrow throat, I would not like to see entrepreneurs waiting again for a year for money from European funds still waiting for a call. What is at this point, which I wish the government had come out and I hope we won't go with the third, fourth, fifth and so on, that we'll go out with one plan and a vision of how and where to invest, where people will need them, which sectors will be supported because what to provide both social services and the health system at this point in the functional and pension system and safe pensions is needed to maintain economic activity. I would also like to say that as far as this economic activity is concerned, there is certainly an opportunity in European funds, I say the European Commission is considering, I think that I have even read to see whether those Member States will even not have to give up their national co-financing, so I hope that if we do so, our Government will get these favourable conditions because it is certain that every kuna in the budget means to us. Here is the call in this reasoning to sound financial management and this, in fact, was an integral part from the beginning, it was part of the Budget Law and simply from the first day of the term of office of the Prime Minister and their members were to be guided by this, it is an obligation from the beginning to the end of the term of office so that there is no need for this explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196234	Thank you. Here's a replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196235	Dear colleagues. I agree with you that pensioners have a hard time living, that they have low incomes, but that also does not free us from the responsibility of interpreting statistics properly. You know, you have one point that in Croatia 95,000 citizens receive a pension of up to 500 kuna, in fact it's true that there are 3,000 of them, and everyone else or lives abroad and for a proportion of the internships receive a pension abroad or live here and from abroad for their proportionate pensions they get part of the pension. Therefore, I agree to tell the truth the way it is, they live hard pensioners have small incomes, but it's just that we throw ourselves so much into the mud that we're no country, I think it's beneath the dignity of representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196236	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196237	Dear colleague Hrelja, I agree, but given the information I received, I received from HZMO and also received an official response from the Minister of Resort. What's standing there is the kind of information I said, so that's what I got. So here I have to say that the Resort Ministry issued such a piece of information with the signing of the Secretary of Resort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196238	Thank you. The next debate is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. He's gone, so he lost his right to argue. Next is the individual debate of the distinguished representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196239	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers, respected ministers, state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. So, given that it is already a late hour debate, I will immediately move on to the thing that seems not good in these measures, otherwise the measures must be taken by themselves because this agency, mentioned by the prime minister in his address this morning, has reduced by 1 degree the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia, but has said one important thing, that the estimate that GDP could fall by 5% points, which means that in some rough RH account it could lose about 50,000 jobs minimally. We don't really know because this crisis has not yet been, and it since 2008, cannot be measured by this crisis because there is a crisis here both on the side of the offer and on the side of demand. So, these measures are necessary to bring, but there is always a problem when measures are being taken, when legal solutions are being passed always with these borders or popular censors, 50% are being mentioned here, and today some MPs have already asked the question of what is the difference between the one who has a 49% downfall and the 51%, this has been administratively cut off in this way, so they will have the rights of larger ones who have a slightly smaller decrease in business. And the second thing, when we talk about 4,000 fees for the monks, for the preservation of jobs, it's not the same and it seems to me that today that the unions have apostropheed it, it's not the same for that worker who's still working and gets 4,000 kunas and the one who doesn't work, and it's going to get the same 4,000 kuna in that sense, because it's questionable whether entrepreneurs will give those workers who work more than what they're supposed to do. So these measures, which today, it has been repeatedly stressed that they amounted to around 9 billion kuna in 3 months, so these are both salaries and contributions, somewhere mentioning the amount from the common European cash register about the same amount as 9 billion kuna and the total value of these measures is estimated at 40 billion kuna. Therefore, it is obvious that some of the money will be missing, a substantial amount, the colleague Shucker said, but the increase in the expenditure side, and the reduction of the revenue side, which is inevitable because we only look at VAT revenues given the tourism sector that will certainly fail, then we expect a significant income deficit. And I personally support these measures, we will probably and in the club support them, just looking for ministers to think about these limits anyway, not to set them fixed, to maybe determine the percentage that part of it is paid to help with the downfall, and about these fees to distinguish those people who work from those who don't. And what I warned the prime minister this morning and I am asking you that there is in the Republic of Croatia a series or group of citizens, that's what my colleague Grbin was talking about, so let's mention the students not only that they, that they can't use these measures, but they are in many here in the trade chains where they are also exposed to the health threat they don't have those raises that regular workers have. Here, now we hear I can't even get travel permits. So students should also be considered because they are not just additional sources of income because many are the only sources of income for study. There are, of course, pensioners who, of course, are mentioned a little bit now, are people who wanted to make extra money, we made it possible for them, at this point they can't do it, they can't make extra money. There are already mentions of sailors, there are people who are now using certain social rights. So, people who had turns, so they shut down, so they're taking fees from the employment office. Now that the fee they're doing now, one man asked me what to do now, 1.4, he gets paid, no more self-employment measures, he's not a man who doesn't want to work, but where he's going to get a job now and how to start this product because it wasn't even before this crisis it was all ideal. So, before this crisis, people were closing down, these coronary crises caused by the coronary virus, closing their turns. So, we welcome these measures, but vulnerable groups in society should be discussed because citizens, as well as banks should enable citizens to refinance their obligations so that we do not also be colleagues of the Grbin right to say and the judiciary to see, that no implementation is carried out at this point because many of the speculatory powers will come to cheap real estate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196240	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196241	Thank you very much. My colleague Sagar, I replicate to you only about one thing and I think all of us MPs in the Croatian Parliament should react in this way. I personally think that what made the rating agency out of their minds is out of line, I don't know how to say it. The moment the whole world shakes, when the world's entire economy is in crisis, someone smart is going now estimating what a credit rating is. Well, wait till the crisis is over, then grade. Or maybe it's going to be on the hands of someone who has money, so countries like Croatia let's tell me that they're a little bit worse than what, so when they're in charge of a little bit of a split, let's say, higher interest rate. So, colleagues and colleagues, I publicly invite you here, let's show this solidarity towards our country, and just like that kind of guys who allow themselves to do such things simply say that they have no right to do so at a time like this when the whole people are fighting and the whole world is fighting this pandemic. They just don't have the right to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196242	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196243	Dear colleague Shuker, I'm glad you said that because you're both a former minister and an economist and you know it's done. It's not in public space sometimes it's not grateful to say so, but it's brave to say that there's an impact on those agencies that they're simply doing this all out of some interest. They have reduced the credit rating and I agree with why they have now done so, at this very moment, they could wait a little while to see what the effects and these measures will achieve, and maybe that's because the government has announced that this refinancing of the business sector's obligations will enable them to survive, so maybe that's one of the reasons that you say interest is shared.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196244	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196245	Dear colleague Sagar, you're right. We are a country with a small, relatively small population on a large surface, and that should be our advantage, to try to organize work wherever we can. Here we all see together that working in a store under restricted conditions, under the circumstances that are allowed to work, that work in banks works, why not organize that the builders of the Istrian Ipsilon work full steam, that the builders of the Peljega Bridge work full steam and access roads and everything else. So wherever you can work without being threatened, people don't group to avoid jeopardizing other people, where you can do it on your own, what does that tractorist in Slavonia bother to be all day long, takes a nice marenda can be plowed all day long and be in the fresh air. Why don't you, in a way, talk about it publicly, give people the more we do, the faster and easier we'll get out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196246	Thank you, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196247	Dear colleagues of Hrelja, you are absolutely right, public sector investment should not be stopped, ministers should see local self-government units currently in the construction phase, whether it is a sewerage, whether it is water supply, to somehow enable that part of co-financing. What we are missing, private sector investments, here is the Minister of Tourism, perhaps it should now be thinking that all those who, despite this crisis in this time when they cannot carry out their primary activity, if they invest and who wants to invest at the moment, but if there are such people who want to invest, and with regard to what counterpart Schuker said might bother someone, and that he wants to prevent it, if the banks would want to follow these people who want to invest now that the state is particularly rewarding them with some measures to express themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196248	Thank you. And the third replica of the distinguished representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196249	In your presentation, you mentioned the people who appear to you and the problems they are. The problem is endless, only now do we see the actual scale of the problems that are. For example, sports clubs report to me, sports clubs have coaches who work with children and are funded by members of parents. No membership fees, no kids, those sports coaches are waiting, waiting for some better times. So here you have a whole group of different problems that are now opening up. I expect what I expect, I expect some government measures that will focus on everything that a society does, which is not just work and work results. So one society is also a culture, and a society, and a sport that we want the day after we all go to work, work and move. I've seen some coaches get organized and some things work on the facebook, but it's not all possible and it won't be all possible. But I expect that April 20 set that will address other problems like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196250	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196251	Dear colleagues, Dark Taritash. So now I see in the debate a man and forget all the mentions that have come forward, people who are dealing with real estate traffic have come to their attention, all their business activity has stopped for a number of reasons. After all, I can't even physically show the real estate because of these measures. What we have to do today, in free speech alone, emphasized it, is a very important education system for us, and we must not play with it. He has far-reaching consequences on this society, and we need to do everything now to bring this school year to an end in a quality way in the sense that no students are damaged, that teachers who are also in a difficult position to do so properly because it will have far-reaching consequences. And maybe to take advantage of the opportunity you gave me with this replica to say today I said in free speech that some countries are thinking about repeating school years, in the Republic of Croatia it can't happen, there's no need for that. I think teachers have done well, but now all we need to do is properly evaluate what the students need, and the state's graduation needs to be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196252	Thank you. Next debate, distinguished representative Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. I find that at 16.47, I conclude this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196253	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Completion of the General Tax Law, I apologize. We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Accounting Act. The promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGE, Independent Representatives and New Politics. We have two amendments. The first amendment applies, please, five minutes asking for a word, it's a big joke, and there's all of us together maybe 10, right, so here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196254	Mr. Vice President, I only have one technical question. The SDP Club proposes that today's session, after the amendment, we start discussing our proposals for a law that has been announced, and then at 12 o'clock to stop, to hold a vote and discuss it later. Can you give me an indication of our proposal within a reasonable time frame?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196255	If I understand correctly you're asking that after...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196256	After the amendments have ended, if the time remains until the start of the vote comes to a normal debate on our package of laws, and then at 12 o'clock it is interrupted, the vote is held, the vote goes forward and continues. So we get some time if possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196257	We should vote on that because the agenda isn't like that, right, you know that better than I do. The agenda is...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196258	There is no vote, Vice President, so when it is over, when the debate on amendments is over, then either you can declare a break of up to 12 or open a debate on our package of laws, then at 12 it is interrupted to resume it again, etc., so it is not necessary to vote, it is the power of the president.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196259	So let's make a deal, when we're done with the amendments, we'll see how much time we have left and we'll take a five-minute break and we'll agree on whether to continue or wait, or wait for the vote. Okay? Thank you. Now let's move on to the agenda as agreed at the presidency. Now, first, the first amendment is on the table. 4, this is where Mr. Zrinasic will also be shown about this law, meaning amendment to the article. 4. So let's make a deal, when we're done with the amendments, we'll see how much time we have left and we'll take a five-minute break and we'll agree on whether to continue or wait, or wait for the vote. Okay? Thank you. Now let's move on to the agenda as agreed at the presidency. Now, first, the first amendment is on the table. 4, this is where Mr. Zrinasic will also be shown about this law, meaning amendment to the article. 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196261	Thank you very much. Therefore, the amendment is not accepted basically the proposal goes in a direction to shorten the time limit for the adoption of the Regulation from the standard 30 days to 8 days. This is otherwise not binding, nor pervasive, and since this law as an emergency measure for maximum business relief to entrepreneurs due to specific circumstances related to this crisis, this law is also adopted. It is understood and it is clear that this deadline, which is otherwise the indicative, will be completed eight days ago, and therefore we do not consider it necessary here because of a law which, by emergency procedure, reduces the time limit that we will respect for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196262	I just have to say, it's an amendment to the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, independent representatives and new policy, Mr. Hrelja will now be manifested on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196263	Dear Secretary of State, I am very sorry that the Government does not accept this amendment because of the nomotechnical rasomone because in the same package of laws that are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, there are several different deadlines for the adoption of the rules, but I think it is important that these rules are passed by emergency procedure, so that it is in other laws and you have no problem if it says in one law that it is 8 days and in this law to write 8 days and accept the amendment that, that you do not leave room for manoeuvre and that you do not leave a message in which citizens get the impression of indifference. So, if it's eight days of regulation, then let it be all the regulations of the Ministry of Finance. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196264	Thank you very much. You have a second amendment to Mr. Hrelja, so an amendment to the article. Six years old Zrinasic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196265	Thank you very much. And this amendment is not accepted. It is similar intensities, 6 months in terms of impact assessment according to the Impact Assessment Act, this deadline is indicative and maximum of 2.g. and in this form we wrote about all the legal regulations that go into these packages related to the coronary epidemic, and we consider it unnecessary to shorten this deadline, given that in any case, this impact assessment will be done in accordance with all the assessments that will be covered by these tax rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196266	Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196267	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, I think that being made in such a long period of time about the effects of this law doesn't make any sense that within six months you have to know simply what happens to the effects of all these laws, not only this, and I think it's fair and correct to the users of these laws, which are your clients, the people you control the most, and which you must in some way, in some ways appreciate and respect. Therefore, we consider it correct to reduce the time limit of the assessment, subsequent evaluations of the effects of these laws. We'd like you very much to accept this, but you're staying at your firm stand, we're doing the same thing with ours, so we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196268	Thank you very much. So we're done with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Accounting Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196269	We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Accounting Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 896. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGE, Independent Representatives and New Politics. We had a statement earlier in the session, we'll vote on the amendment. It is one that the government does not accept, as I said to the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGE and Independent Representatives and Politics. Who's in? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, so we move to a vote on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Accounting Act. And it is, I apologize on the other side it is here, exactly the second amendment also the same club the government does not accept. Let's vote who's in? I find that he has not received the required number of votes, so we are now going to vote on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Accounting Act. We'll go the other way now. Who's against it? There isn't. Who's restrained? There isn't. Who's in? Because they're all the same, but here's 130 one more. So, I find that, unanimously, 130 for, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Accounting Act was passed. Honored MPs and MPs, so I am the foundation of the article. 247. I suggest we conduct a united debate on: the final draft law supplementing the General Tax Code, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 895. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Accounting Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 896. and Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 887. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, so I would now ask the applicant's representative to give an additional explanation. The first one will be spoke by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Honored Andrej Plenkovic. I assume that both Finance Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Zdravko Maric will speak afterwards. Here you go, Prime Minister. I'm just asking you now to hold your hand until you're registered by a colleague who's interested in the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196271	Good afternoon, Honorable President HS, Honorable MPs and MPs. I am pleased to have the opportunity to present today in the framework of this April package of measures that we propose in the context of tackling the social economic and social consequences of the coronary virus pandemic that the Republic of Croatia is facing. We, as you know, presented the first package in March with 63 measures, were immediately a spot-on government response to how to facilitate the situation for our economy, for workers, for our entire system of functioning under new circumstances. This package we talked about yesterday at the government, which we presented to the public on Wednesday, as you can see, comes not only in the context of the battle against the coronaryvirus but also in the context of a major earthquake that hit Zagreb and the surrounding area and part of Krapina-Zagorje County of 5.5 per Richter. I would once again, on behalf of the Government, like to express my condolences to the family of the young girl Anamaria, who, unfortunately, lost her life in that earthquake. I want to thank all those who have made every effort in recent weeks to protect the health of Croatian citizens, Croatian doctors, nurses, general medical staff, thank the police, thank the inspectors, customs officers, all those who work these days in shops, to ensure the normal functioning of our lives. I would also like to thank everyone who has helped bring about lightning from the earthquakes in Zagreb, civil protection, city services, police and HV. This March, which is behind us March 2020, for many things will be a month that we will remember for a very, very long time. He basically changed the course of both our activities and our plans, our achievements and marked the beginning of a new normal, new normal that we would face for a time. And that is why we are in a period that requires the unity of the Croatian people, all of our fellow citizens, demands responsibility, self-discipline of individuals, demands the patience of all of the youngest who unfortunately cannot go to school to many who currently cannot do their job to our oldest who, in this epidemic of the crown of the virus, we need to keep and take special care of them. We're like many other countries facing a dilemma. A dilemma in which we have a choice between saving lives and preserving the health of Croatian people and temporarily giving up the way of life so far. As Government, we chose life, we chose the health security of Croatian citizens. And that is why we have taken the measures that when we view comparatively with other countries in Europe, when we look at the dynamics of the spread of infection and the increase of the number of patients in many countries in the world, so far are quite successful in limiting the rate of spread of infection, and also at a rate of mortality.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196272	So like this, we have reached an agreement that only those who are on behalf of the club here two can replicate. MOST has already reported 3, now see that a colleague of Sladolev came with the same intention, also comes fellow Maras. So we're not matchmakers, so what is it? So, what's the deal now? We make a deal and you start, you start, you start cheating on this guy like we're on the street playing this matchmaking game. Come on, please, two representatives from every club can replicate and don't do that. I asked correctly, we decided we'd argue longer in clubs, and now we're pretending to be ignorant, and we're going into the assembly like we didn't agree on anything. So, every club, please pick two who will participate in the debate. Excuse me, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196273	Thank you very much. So when we compare the dynamics of the spread of infection in the Republic and in other countries and Europe and the world, we can say that we have achieved good results with the measures we have taken so far. I am saying this because after a series of consultations with doctors, with experts, with scientists, I must repeat to you and the Croatian public that the battle against coronaryvirus at this stage when we do not yet have a reliable cure, or vaccines, or we have acquired immunity, will primarily lead to the principles of medicine of some earlier centuries, which separates those who are sick from those who are healthy. And that's why our social contact reduction strategy is getting these results. We see an example of a country that has chosen a slightly different strategy in recent weeks, which is Sweden to have a sudden rise in both the infected and the dead. So what we're doing right now is right and justifiable. And we're going to be held as government by the recommendations of experts, especially the epidemiologists, because that's their job under these circumstances. The package of measures we adopted yesterday at the government comes after this package of March has already come into life. Here is Minister Maric, and he will say in more detail that the tax administration has received as many as 64939 requests by 14 yesterday, of which 64% have already been resolved. The Ministry of Labour, on the other hand, to this extent that we have provided, therefore, compensation to employers for workers at 3.250,00 kn per worker as support for the preservation of jobs until yesterday received 70 000 requests for 420 000 workers. And yesterday 400 million kunas were already paid for about 123,000 workers and 40,000 employers. Measures by the Ministry of Regional Development, Ministry of Economy, Tourism, Agriculture, Sea, Transport, Culture are also being implemented. But as we said, in front of HS 20 days ago, we said that we would calibrate our measures depending on the development of the situation. And we have therefore decided, by following the uncertainty we share with other countries of Europe and the world, to come out with another package, to strengthen the March measures. Raise the fee from 3.250,00 kn to 4,000.00 kn, take over the burden of the state of giving i.e. contribute to this particular case. We made a decision that, or those who will fall in income between 20 and 50% compared to last year, we made it possible to postpone them, and that is to say, unscathed and costless, and those whose income falls from 50 to 100%, there are those who can't work at all right now, to free them from taxes entirely, both on profit and income. All those companies, so up to 93% of the number of companies that have revenue of 7.5 million kuna, are covered by this measure, the large ones will be released proportionally if they have a fall of income between 50 and 100%. We also decided that paying value added tax can be delayed until the issued bills are charged, but that does not mean that we are exempt from paying the VAT obligation. The deadline for the submission of the annual financial reports has been moved to 30 June and the obligation to pay FINA's fee is lifted. As far as state expenditure is concerned, we've been working on this for a few weeks now, all the ministries, all the users of the state budget, working on spending cuts, savings, we're going to start talking to social partners about the new situation we're in. Once again, especially for our pensioners, however this situation develops, pensions will not be touched, not for March, not for April, not for May, not for June. For pensions, we'll always find the means to make sure there's no dilemmas. You will see in this debate today and on Monday what we intend to do for Croatian agriculture, for Croatian peasants, for the purchase of surpluses in small milkers, we do not want to see this fall, but the state will stop there and buy everything that is surplus. We also go with support for plant production, the livestock sector, the Ministry of Economy is going with the programme of micro small loans for rural development, the new COVID-19 loan for crafts, the amount of loans of 750,000.00 kn with an interest rate of 0.25 beginning of 12 months, the payment deadline of 5.g. We're going to change some of the laws for the sake of the operational responsibility of the M.O.P. We're going with a package of laws in tourism. More Minister Capelli will talk about it. We have a very good intention here to make a step towards the sector that currently suffers the most. It is important that we know that we will provide a liquidity of 600 million kuna for tourism. The measures we are taking were taken even before yesterday the European Commission made almost the same effort for the whole EU. Their package applies precisely to ensuring jobs, employment, support for the economy, flexibility in the use of European funds, reallocation, even for the first time without a precedent in order to abolish the component of national funding. Everything we do to send a message of solidarity, solidarity to everyone in Croatian society under these extraordinary circumstances. You saw that one of the credit rating agencies left an RH investment credit rating yesterday, but the outlook from the positive turned it into stable. So this is the first message of those who follow the consequences of this crisis on the Republic of Croatia. I must say for many who have often spoken about whether or not we should go to Europe to help us to join Europe today. It would certainly help us, as the members of the European Union have helped, in 19 of them. However, as we are on our way to the European Course Mechanism 2, we are conducting intensive dialogue with both the European Central Bank and we will seek to reach specific arrangements concerning the support of the Republic of Croatia and its financial stability. With regard to the financing of these measures and new circumstances, we are going in coordination with the CNB, with commercial banks, primarily here on the domestic market, we are also thinking about international financial markets, we are also talking to international financial institutions. We're doing everything we can to get through this crisis. And we, as I said at the outset, will stand behind Croatian workers with this package of measures and stand behind the Croatian economy as we have been responsiblely doing so in our mandate and in this respect we expect your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196274	I thank the Prime Minister and call on the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, the respected Zdravko Maric to take the same word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196275	Thank you, well-respected President HS, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is the introduction of what the Prime Minister has exhibited, I will try only, perhaps a little bit just to detail through the concreteisation of these 3 legislative proposals, but, which are the subject of the debate today, but I think you are aware yourself that yesterday and within the whole package we have brought several conclusions of the Government and some other acts that are on the trail of this package, and in what way to do additional measures, additional efforts, to facilitate all economic operators who are already very much at this moment affected by the corona crisis, but at the same time do what we have said in presenting the first package of measures, that effort to the key specifics within a short time period, and this is the maintenance and preservation of jobs and maintenance and maintenance of the functioning of the entire system of the Republic of Croatia and the state, when I say countries do not mean the apparatus of state, but as well as such and all its institutions, we are well aware of the roles, importance and importance of certain services, from the police and customs, etc. As far as this first measure is concerned, I will repeat once again what is said, therefore the amount of support for the payment of salaries is increasing. I repeat once again, payment support, all entrepreneurs, all employers who can, I think, from this pay phone and all of us together in any way that we publicly act, need to send a message in a way that we certainly appeal to pay as much as they can, or full pay. What's important to say, everything that's been paid so far, you've heard the data, you've heard the figures, for 3 months of those 3.250,00 kn, the tax administration will take a systematic route, and in the meantime, if you have to do the hand-in-hand, make adjustments to make that payment for a good part of the entrepreneurs already made, be free of payment, public contributions in view of the level of support, it does not enter the income tax scissors, but above all I mean contributions. The rise to £4,000 starts from April and will be valid for April and May and the same principle of exemption from public giving will also apply to these payments during April and May. HZZ and the Tax Administration will fully agree their records, data transmission, so what is most important for entrepreneurs, for employees, for citizens in as little administration as possible and all the burden of implementing these measures, of course we take on ourselves. I think you're also clear and recognizable that this 4,000,00 kn is the height of the basic, basic deduction that you voted on our proposal and came into force from 1.1 this year. The second measure concerns public administrations again, linked but also unrelated to this first measure, and it relates to the release completely or partially, and the postponement of payment of public fees to entrepreneurs depending on how much and how they are affected by the coronary crisis. So, as we said, in the first round, the 20% threshold for the qualification of entrepreneurs or taxpayers for deferral measures and unambiguous payment is now increasing to 50% in terms where it is possible to qualify for full or partial release. All those taxpayers whose annual income or turnover is up to 7.5 million kuna will be fully exempt from paying direct taxes, income, profits and contributions. Of course, I repeat again on the condition that their decline in income over the next 3 months, or April, May and June, compared to the same period last year, is over 50%. For those who have an annual turnover of over 7.5 million, this release will be proportionally achieved by a downturn of over 50%, the remaining part is also subject to a deferral and unambiguous payment. Which in translation when we actually sum up means that in the coming months we can expect a very small inflow of any direct taxes, income, contributions and profits in the state register. Closely related to this measure is, of course, our proposal measures, and it is also an integral part of the amendments to the General Tax Law which would then, of course, be concrete and translated into a rule signed by the Minister of Finance, but at the same time of course, I will explain and present to you all our thoughts so far and not be as in the first case any unknowns. Therefore, this is a matter of value added tax, as the main and key not only of the original income of the state budget but also of this main representative, so-called. indirect or indirect defeats. You know very well that the Republic of Croatia has taken advantage of the possibility that certain provisions of the directive give for a certain category of entrepreneurs, which are again at the same threshold as those up to 7.5 million kuna in the last round of tax reform, to allow them also to have the right to pay value added tax at the price of the invoice, or as some say in the invoice. Statistics, just to tell you in short lines so far says that out of 153.217 value added tax taxpayers, 60,014 have decided, or they go and charge VAT on the paid realisation, so on the basis of all the bills charged and all the bills paid. The remaining number of 93,203 accounts for VAT on invoices issued, which means that in that month the obligation is calculated on the basis of all invoices issued and all receipts received, regardless of whether they have charged or not. A large number of taxpayers obviously had the option, but it was not as such chosen. In the first round of changes, or in the first round of measures for the economy, we have opened the door for this number of remaining up to 7.5 million kunas of annual traffic. We will see, of course, the statistics she may not be so relevant at this point, but it is important that we spread such news and such information among entrepreneurs. And now, in this second circle, we open up the possibility for everyone, everyone. And here I must say once again, so this is something that is contrary to the basic principles of the value added tax system as well as certain directives that prescribe it that the Republic of Croatia and all EU member states have for more than two decades. But most importantly, the method of reckoning as such and all the part that will lead to this implementation will be carefully defined, of course, again and again, as with the first measures, to take a good part of this administration on ourselves, to relieve, to facilitate. However, what is important is the key point, what is not charged goes on about the postponement, what is charged cannot go on delaying the value added tax, regardless of the individual business entity is a obligor, it is not their income but the income of the state budget because ultimately the tax burden is borne by someone third. And now that we're saying that, let me just point out that the principle of this expansion is also being introduced for value added tax on imports. You also know that until now it has been worth the provision in general for machines and equipment only, we are now expanding the coverage of everything, just as we are expanding the coverage and thanks to all the people of good faith who in the past period, because of the COVID, which due to the earthquake in the city of Zagreb donated equipment and various other supplies, so that we will also include this coverage as such in these changes. But what that kind of sublime of this whole idea that we're talking about right now means when we sum up all these measures, direct taxes, taxes that are for the entrepreneur, the employer, the craftsman, so every taxpayer who carries out some sort of economic activity is a direct cost that goes to his burden. Income tax, tax on profit contributions as explained or fully released, in part we offer the possibility of delaying interest-free payments. Indirect taxes, which I repeat in the final and de facto bear someone's third income from the state budget, and ultimately we also have to apply that principle that, I repeat once again, what has been charged and paid into the state budget, what we are not offering is the possibility to go as such in the delay. And that's the concept we're talking about, and when we mention solidarity and community, I think it's more than evident here. With these measures, we all, together with our economic system, point to one high level of trust and a dose of trust. We are not looking for the same feedback, but at the same time in these circumstances without an equal level or at least the same level of trust in the opposite direction by the economy, it is hardly possible to build any further steps and exit from this whole crisis and that is what is most important. The government will, of course, continue to think, first of all, focus now at this point on implementing these measures because it is also important. Of course, after today's debate, I hope that after the vote, the real job is only then to move it forward. You have now heard the figures and effects of the measures so far, we are talking about over 65,000 entrepreneurs, over 400,000 people who are already users of the existing measures that we have presented, we hope that these measures will also contribute to such indicators and these results and ultimately do what we all want or want in these circumstances where practically health and some economic goals are in good proportion to cohesion. However, health and human lives are first and we in the economic part must give our pain, all who can in any way contribute to economic activity, to the creation of additional and new values, we must do so in the form of solidarity for all those whose work and business is disabled for various reasons, but above all in order to meet what is our primary priority of health and human lives. I repeat again, everything we can pass on and submit to ourselves we will do, again apostrophe to this administration, so the HZZ system and the IRS and the IRS, and according to the new FIN, which has created a web portal, a web interface that will be a unique place for application to measures that concern both the credit obligations of citizens and entrepreneurs and also the demand. So far, we have recorded over 1,400 requests for new loans from business entities for liquidity, which is what we were talking about in the first round and I am going to be apostrophe now. It is that effect that we are not able to fully assess fiscally in terms of the financial effect, because it is difficult to assume how much demand there will be for such loans. However, the idea is to make such loans available is that it is now extremely important to ensure the functioning of business entities, their liquidity in order not to really come to what we often use and exclusively use the notion of liquidity, but not to get to that even worse scenario, which is the liquidity crisis, not just liquidity. And that is what we intend to do through our part of the development banks, so HBOR and HAMAG, development and guarantee schemes, their participation in total loans, give incentives to both commercial banks to intensify this activity. So, crafts means payouts, payments to suppliers to some others, but means continuing this life of these business entities during the duration of what in all these acts that are standing before you, which are so-called. special circumstances. One of the laws is also the Accounting Act, very short. Therefore, the deadline for the application and submission of annual financial reports from 30.4. to 30.6. and all corresponding forms shall be moved, as well as the calculation of the annual profit tax. One of the 3 laws is also the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, which among other things regulates certain things on budgetary categories, among other things, you heard them just before and from the words of the Prime Minister, so for all these measures and for the functioning of the State we will need a much greater amount of funds than is original, I will call them in the peacetime circumstances before the Coronavirus when we were doing the budget and when we did the State Budget Implementation Act 2020, planned. In the next 3 months, in terms of state functioning, again I say, not the apparatus that some consider, but the overall functioning of a country that involves the payment of pensions, the payment of social benefits and the payment of various incentives, I don't know in agriculture if we can't ignore that part under these circumstances either. All that we can drive into economic activity we need to do, but also taking into account and say these measures, the implementation of these measures, the fact that a certain burden, at least this liquidated one, took over for you HZZOs or local self-governments. The needs of the state are between, according to our estimates, between 42 billion and 45 billion kuna. Moreover, some 20 billion kunas will also need to be provided for the achievement of some commitments from the previous periods. So we are talking about large amounts, and therefore, among other things, in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, we propose such a provision that would enable, naturally, all of these challenges to be met. We've already activated the domestic market. There is still room on the domestic market, and I am sure that many of you will give specific suggestions and suggestions. We are also looking at the international scene, where markets began to open after a certain period of imprisonment. What are the conditions? What's the position of the Republic of Croatia? Personally, I still think it's good. Of course, the conditions are not only for the Republic of Croatia but are getting worse, but this is also one source, as well as all multilateral financial institutions that we are also taking into account, as well as, of course, the programmes we are monitoring, which are developing at EU level, or the European Commission is leading the process. In any case, this is a package of measures like when we said for the first time that we will not stop at this to revive our economy, especially that part of domestic demand you can expect and that the following packages or circles or measures will primarily be directed not only at the economy and entrepreneurship, but also at citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196276	I would also like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance. Now let's go to the replicas, the first replicas will be sent to the Prime Minister, the first respected colleague, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196277	Mr. Prime Minister, what we said and suggested when it was the first package of measures, a write-off, and not a delay, I see that you accepted it and that these are the measures that everyone welcomes. However, I would ask you and you mentioned the Croatian village, Croatian peasants, Croatian agriculture. We know it was two years ago. The agricultural land law that we have unprocessed 790,000 hectares, of which is the state 400,000 hectares, and in 2.g. There is absolutely nothing divided between our peasants because the law has certain problems. And I made a bill of law, if you don't, then some minister finally wakes up out of her sleep and starts assigning land to a Croatian peasant. It's a key self-sufficiency. I hope when I spoke favorably of this, then you said it was my footings, my import lobby, and so on. And I hope that you too will change the paradigm, I guess it will be a paradigm to work Croatian because the country is freedom, without a country unworked there is no future.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196278	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196279	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Bulj. She will be the Minister of Agriculture here on Monday with the bill, so she will explain to you the whole package of measures relating to agriculture as I said, not only to go with the amendment of the basic law but also to the measure relating to surpluses in small milkers, to support and those dealing with plant production and livestock, and we are making sure that we buy everything that our fishermen are hunting or growing at this point, so that it is used in a whole way. This is an opportunity to further place emphasis on Croatian agricultural production since no one can safely assume at this time how long this crisis will last. And you saw yesterday that we made it quite clear that all public authorities, therefore, health institutions and police and military, for example, and will stay at the public procurement process for 60% of the purchases.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196280	Thank you. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196281	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. These measures are primarily aimed at helping the economy. However, the economy of the Republic of Croatia will be difficult to operate if, in this part, still operational workers cannot come to work. Yesterday and today we are witnessing a major problem with issuing passes, precisely for going to work for communication between individual units of local self-government. Of course, it should be commended to the intensity that the passes are being issued electronically, of course it should be commended to the intensity that all passes are centralized in one place, but it seems to us based on the problems that arise from both local self-government units and from citizens on the ground that the deadline left for issuing passes is too short. So I ask you, will you extend that deadline? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196282	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196283	I'm glad that you, too, Agent Grbin, as well as Representative Bulj, are praising the government's measures. Minister Malenica and all those in charge can say so freely to the various aspects of the e-Citizen system immediately resorted to the making of e-passes, solving these narrow throats that were identified yesterday. If necessary, we will also revise that deadline, the whole concept of civil protection activities. To repeat again, it is based on the recommendations of the epidemiologist. So there is no political volunteerism, there is no arbitrational behaviour of the authorities or headquarters, there is only one key task, which is to preserve the health of Croatian citizens. And that's why I repeat what I said in the introduction, looking at data in other countries, looking at the mortality rate of this measure has so far achieved results.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196284	Comrade Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196285	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, life will be after the crown and after the epidemic. What I'd like to hear from you is one question, how you'll keep state finances. In fact, you will now pump into the economy over 40 billion kuna. The economy will recover. Have you thought about the idea of that asset that you gave large companies to turn it into state co-ownership, that one day when these companies put in place again to sell those shares and then return some of the funds invested? It clearly does not refer to micro-entrepreneurs, craftsmen, small companies but you will give funds to both large companies and what should be clear to everyone that the funds that are now being invested should have a way to get them back when the situation is better, and it will certainly be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196286	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196287	Thank you very much, Mrsic, I think we are all aware that the measures we have taken are, firstly treasonous, secondly timely, thirdly preparing our economy, so employers of those who have an entrepreneurial spirit and idea for a moment after the crisis or at least when they are somewhat immersed and when they are gradually reactivated wider economic activities. And secondly, what is most important, so what is far more important is that these measures are primarily aimed at preserving jobs. They're targeting the workers. These fees go to keep people in companies as far as possible. There are also big ones who work, who have no income. What we want at this point is to do step three, and the third step is how to start an economy after the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196288	Thank you. Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196289	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, I'm sure we can call this set of measures April 1 0 and will certainly need some set of measures called April 2 0. What are we talking about? We're interested in everyone when this accident and this silent crown pass that we don't have a burnt country behind it. And it's absolutely good that you've listened to the opposition and that we have this set of measures that relate to making it easier for people to actually save jobs. But what is quite important will also be that after the crown we have associations that will continue to work, that we have a cultural sector that will continue to work. I'm aware we're not Germany. You must know what Germany did and the way it helped. I'm wondering if you're thinking about whether or not the restrictions that are to be tied together, especially those associations that will be involved in social care, I would like to stress that shelter for women victims of the settlement to be in some set. measure 2 0 and make a certain shift and a certain benefit there. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196290	Thank you, colleague Dark Taritash. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196291	Thank you very much, Mrak Taritaš, when it comes to these associations you mentioned, we will surely find ways to enable them to function and their work. As for the aspect of culture, I see that you mentioned it today, and you mentioned these days, I talked to Minister Obuljan, and we will look for solutions for this sector, and given the specificities, we have both fees and free artists, etc., they may have a slightly more specific status but they certainly deserve a way to overcome this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196292	Now it's up to the esteemed colleague of the Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196293	Dear Mr. President, under the circumstances, I survived this earthquake in Zagreb and I think that with all the institutions you have praised, your praise and our praise deserve and all the volunteers starting from groups of citizens to alpinists, to statisticians of every age who are very active in the recovery of earthquakes. Secondly, as far as pensioners and this protection are concerned, I am pleased, but I will talk about it on behalf of the club and explain why it is my opinion as well, and what I would ask you to explain to me, or explain it to the entire Croatian public, all the time we are talking about protecting jobs with entrepreneurs. It's not just business entrepreneurs who hire, hire a lot of other employers. And we're part of parties, associations and all of someone's employers. And there's this reason why someone can't come to work because they live 20 miles away, so please be specific.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196294	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196295	So you've heard the esteemed representative of the Hrelja and on the occasion of presenting the first package and this second, covering these measures the fact that 400 million kunas were already paid yesterday tell you how appropriate and affected they were. And once again, we didn't even say in our first presentation that we had some big dilemma between a delay and forgiveness. This is one thesis which sought to impose, as the thesis in Croatian politics is imposed, and in this communication space of conflict between private and public, these are false dilemmas in this crisis, both of which are false dilemmas. We're very real here and with a package like this, we're doing what's important to us right now. Our strategy is to have time now for the next steps, the next steps must be how to re-launch the economy and fast when this crisis is sinking. It's our basic task and we'll work on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196296	Thank you. Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196297	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister. The last time you represented these measures, I asked the same replica about the moratories, so now I'm very interested in both citizens and employers when banks give moratories whether they actually charge interest or not, sometimes that interest can be 50% of the annuity, especially if they're going to charge interest again later on, then it's not really help. And I'm curious, I know that we need to find money for this whole thing, and I understand that you said yesterday at the government and that you referred to the ministers for all the cuts just what is necessary, but hopefully already when we're not going to go against the logic that we're giving more work and less subsidising, we're paying some more jobs that won't apply to extra-accounters, that at least they're starting that part of the investment, that they're going to continue and that they're hiring our employers who then de facto will benefit less from these measures and there's no reason and yet we're going to get some other added value after all that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196298	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196299	Thank you very much. Mr. Curaj, as far as these loans and moratories are concerned, there is no compensation after the deadlines for reprogramming have passed, so this agreement has been reached and here is Minister Maric talking to all banks and they were quite responsible and I think we found a very fast common language. As for savings and investment, therefore a very important detail, we, when we talk about savings cuts, are then talking about all those expenditures that are not necessary, so we will distinguish that from the purpose of investments which, in this situation, bear and move the economy and realise ultimately and the state budget on various individual income operations. Therefore, it is not exclusively mutually, however, but all these investments, all of the investment by extra- budget users must be meaningful. We're not going to let anything be funded right now, just what's highly meaningful and useful under these circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196300	Comrade Bilek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196301	Thank you very much. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, Honored Vice President, Parliament Speaker, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's an interest in not a few things, first of all, I want to really praise the government's intensities especially in this second round towards entrepreneurship, according to the continuation of all economic activities so that we can feel this crisis as little as possible here. I'm only interested in one thing, it's about Croatia's waters whether or not there is a plan here because entrepreneurs pay, but also our citizens all in turn, is there a possibility there too? Furthermore, will the signed contracts with the ministries and other foundations and decisions of yesterday's government be respected? And the third thing, as regards the employees of the associations, do they have the right to these compensations regarding support for co-financing of salaries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196302	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196303	Thank you very much, Mr. Bilek. As regards all aspects of those contracts that have been signed, so you mentioned Croatian waters, everything that is signed and useful, and these are huge projects a whole series of European funds and European projects are used for agglomerations so for a water utility economy that are particularly important for raising the quality of life in certain Croatian counties and cities, this process will continue, however. We have signals from the European Commission that they want all the funds to be used, everything that is not allocated by which it can be used flexiblely for other projects, especially to combat this crisis and epidemic. As far as giving is concerned, we also had through the National Reform Programme a whole plan relating to the reduction of non-taxable duties and parafiscal burdens, we had a debate on it, certain savings were prepared. We need to reach a consensus through the month of April and see what activities will not stop if we cut something hard.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196304	Thank you. Comrade Chikotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196305	The Honorable President of the Croatian Government. Given that you stress the importance of economic activity and since you say it is extremely important that this economic activity continues and that it is important that we be flexible in using eu funds, we get such signals from the European Commission, I must say that I am amazed by your two decisions, decisions by the Government that say that all public calls and all acquisitions from all sources of funding will be suspended, so it stands in the Government's decision and says that only those expenditures will remain and will be focused on the basic and necessary functioning of individual bodies. So I'm asking you to clear that up. I also don't understand why the same decision states that the Minister of Finance will be given the opportunity to be an arbiter and that every user will contact him, which means that the Minister of Finance is actually above government decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196306	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196307	There is no minister above government decisions, you have very clearly explained it in an explanation, so what is the point in a crisis like this where we have to raise funds in a way that we shouldn't have done or had to. So at this point, we've already raised funds rather than commercial banks in Croatia, we're going to raise funds like I said in the international financial markets, we're going to get them out of international financial institutions, we're going to use what we get from European funds, and we're going to re-design in this crisis for what's important to us, and as far as those projects go, they're going to go with the proper control they're going to have, either the competent ministry as an implementing body, whether the Ministry of Regional Development, whether the Ministry of Finance, given the overall state of public finances in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196308	Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196309	Dear Prime Minister, it is a good thing that you have taken more serious measures to preserve employment, however, it is a bad thing that you plan to finance them from credit instead of direct emissions from the central bank that would not be burdened with debt and interest, and in this way you will in fact turn the rope of salvation into a noose around the neck of the Croatian state and people in the long term. However, I would like to ask you, about 150 thousand people who are unemployed, many of whom have no right to any remuneration from the Stock Exchange. I wonder if the Croatian state and these people will be given some means because they too have to live on something? The more many of them planned their jobs now in the season, and unfortunately without it, the employment remained evident. Did you think of them, too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196310	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196311	Thank you very much, Mr. Pernar. I think we've chosen a good, natural and logical and sustainable way of finding financial resources in these circumstances. As far as your second question is concerned, you know that we were practically up to a few months ago until, say, that was still half season or season last year on the lowest numbers ever in Croatia and now I think that we are somewhere over 140 thousand in this situation that we have, which is basically very good at the numbers we had a few years ago. So our policy was that all those who wanted to work, and before this crisis in Croatia could, absolutely, be able to find the job that everyone wanted. A series of measures we took through the Ministry of Labour, from measure to career, from desire, from Employment, there were so many, from self-employment, a series of measures that enabled people to start a business. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] The Minister of Labour will also take care of these people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196312	Thank you. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196313	Your Honor, Prime Minister. Croatian sovereigns welcome these measures and I will personally vote for this package of measures, I think they are good. However, here I must express regret that these measures did not work out 15 days ago when we warned that it should go, be late and it happened that we have thousands and thousands of newly employed workers at the Employment Office. If it were 15 days ago, I know that the objective circumstances are what they are, but if they were, today they wouldn't have these thousands of unemployed and the question is, how are you going to treat these people, would those employers who fired people out of fear, out of uncertainty, many and unwarranted, that we understand each other, how are you going to treat them? And the second question is about non-taxable duties, or parafiscal burdens that there are 239, if I am not mistaken. Will there be any reduction, will this make Croatia's entrepreneurship easier by this difficult situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196314	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196315	Thank you very much, Agent Zekanovic. I'm glad you support the measures. As far as your questions concerning parafiscal intrusions and non-taxable givings are concerned, I just answered that, we explained that at the press conference at the end of the line. There are many more of them, there are all 448 of them, all of them a working group co-ordinated by the Ministry of Economy for a long time under the National Reform Programme. The reductions were prepared, so maybe it's important for the Croatian public to know, of all the 448, there are about 20 of them, which is 7.8 billion kuna for you, and all of this remains somewhere around 8.7, I think. So these 20 are the most important. However, these 20 finance certain activities. And it's not something you can just break over your knee and say it now doesn't exist because then you don't have the means for certain activities, for example, Croatian waters. So we're working on a solution. which will enable both. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196316	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196317	Mr. Prime Minister. On 14th and 16th03, we had a joint meeting in the government, and I memorized your sentence, where you called for community, transparency, and you said, as we know, you will know. Twenty-four hours later, a meeting was held in the government that we don't know about, and you know it, and the public doesn't know about the meeting with the editors-in-chief of most of the media, those who discovered the affairs are left out, but it doesn't matter. I think it would be good for you to inform us about this meeting and especially about the fact that it has gone through the media, which is that one member of the government has promised media and aid in the form of advertising by public companies, therefore, it reminds me overwhelmingly of some events from the past, I hope it is not that intensity, so I ask you to explain to us what this is about and that the public knows what it is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196318	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196319	Dear Representative Bauk, I have the impression that you weren't at that meeting so that even if you were saying what you're saying, you're not speaking on the basis of the facts and speaking at that meeting, you're gleaning someone's media speculation. It is your right, but it is not good for you to speak as a representative in the Croatian Parliament something that is not true. The purpose of that meeting, where almost 30 people were at the meeting, where they were all key editors and editors and journals and weeklys and televisions and radios, so they were very targeted, was not a secret meeting, was held, I don't know, in the morning, where we explained to them at that moment the seriousness of the crisis in the same way we explained to you, the representatives of the opposition at that meeting, exactly with the same logic that we know, will know the public. No speeches about any subsidies or anything that you've tried to insinuate here, no words or will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196320	Thank you. Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196321	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister, so here's what colleagues say there were great skeptics about how much the government would do and how much it did in that short time when it was actually, the first moment was the coronary virus, and then unfortunately this earthquake. But what the government was doing from the beginning, which was doing to record the situation, that it should have seen its possibilities, and that it could actually project what it could offer at that moment, but also then we said that the government would work at all other stages. It is very important that this package of measures, which means a great deal to both citizens and entrepreneurs, and to the public as well. What is still to be said is that this government, unlike those in times of crisis, has made economic sense and is also making sense of income to local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196322	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196323	Thank you very much, respected representative Peric that is correct, we have given two messages to our partners at the level of units of local self-government. The first thing they will not get at this time is the fact that a number of income tax entrepreneurs are being released, so one of their incomes is based on our reforms and the method of funding units of local self-government that has left all more funding for projects for their activities, that we will compensate them from the state budget. However, what we also said is that we expect them under these circumstances and responsibility and solidarity and savings and a contribution to resolving the current situation in which we are all together. So this solidarity involves both activities and counties and cities and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196324	Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196325	The Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, therefore, as you said in the presentation of this measure, is also aimed at preserving jobs and the liquidity of the business sector. We had problems before this crisis, it wasn't exactly a great situation, and a large number of people who left the country witnessed it, and a strike of educators, on the other hand, we also had those people who wanted to earn extra kuna on the labour market, which are students who worked through student service, pensioners who worked extra with pensions. So all these people had problems. It is acceptable for me that these measures cannot be included, but I am asking you specifically now. When the government adopts measures that will help every citizen of the Republic of Croatia in terms of solidarity, as you said, in terms of its credit obligations, I am talking about obligations, credit obligations of citizens. Therefore, all those who are now at the Employment Service who will not be able to use self-employment measures or will lose the compensation they are now using to serve their obligations to directors and ultimately loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196326	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196327	Dear Representative Žagar, I would just like to remind you that in the term of this government achieved healthy growth, GDP growth of almost 3%, so 2.9% before this crisis, that we reduced the debt, that the budget was not only balanced but was in more cases in the term of our government and the surplus, that we returned Croatia to an investment credit rating, that we increased the employment that was higher by the number of insurance companies than it was 30 years ago when we had 700,000 more people, that we had record tourist seasons and that what I told my colleague, whoever wanted and worked, could have found a job in the Republic. That's one message. The second message is that the strike of educators in our mandate, 18.3% was the rise of public and state sector salaries, and the enlightener 23.5%, that never happened. So this context has nothing to do with what we're doing right now, these are measures to get out of the crisis and they're comprehensive. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196328	Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196329	Dear Prime Minister, isn't it unusual for you to let the green markets not work, and the other day you let the shops around the green markets work, on the other hand the shopping malls work, and there the virus spreads far better, so I appeal on behalf of all the peasants, the OPG, let it go already tomorrow because logically that there is far less chance of infection in the open space, if it should be the monks, if it should be people selling in gloves, masks, our people already have a culture of protection. Therefore, please do so because imports from Italy into the 1,000s are coming, thus the virus. On the other hand comes the greatest Christian holiday of Easter. Buy all market surpluses from small producers, from peasants and through the Red Cross, so Red Cross and other meanings to all institutions that are very much needed in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196330	Thank you, well-respected representative Lovrinović, unlike Mr. Bauk, who talks about meetings he was not aware of, you were at meetings with our Civil Protection Centre, which currently refers to markets and green markets, which also refers to the purchase of everything we can buy from the Croatian OPGs, there must not be any excess food at this time, let alone food that will fail whether it is done by the state, whether they pick up the trade chains and place it on the market, so that's one. But what we're going to do in the context of the market is we're going to ask the epidemiologist for very precise instructions on how when it comes to that step we make a step to make sure. Because any sudden drop in measures can cause a greater infection, the disease of our fellow citizens, and then death. We need to be extremely careful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196331	Comrade Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196332	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, why have you decided that the decisions that will have a very big impact on the state budget, perhaps the largest, because the decision on 4,000, decisions concerning forgiveness or suspension, or delaying the payment of certain taxes, are to be made by a conclusion, rather than by Parliament, in the same way that we will make these amendments to the law. Namely, one of the victims of the crown is both democracy and, as you have seen, it is thought and said that Hungary is the first crown victim of democracy. And in these moments, it's very important to take care of it, and that's why it's important that we sit here and discuss in front of the public these measures that you see people mostly support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196333	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196334	Thank you very much. As far as democracy is concerned, I think that we are operating in these conditions right now here in this building, not because we have an epidemic of the coronary virus but because of an earthquake that caused material damage in the Croatian Parliament, this is a matter of security more than an epidemic. Secondly, there is no single element in Croatia that could be called about having a threat to democracy, although the government normally works, the Croatian Parliament normally works, we make decisions. So that conclusion goes because otherwise it is the jurisdiction of the HZZ which is under the Ministry of Labour to prescribe the amount of these fees, so it is not the point now that we want to bring it as an executive power without communicating in the Parliament at the end that is why I am here today, which is why Vice President Maric is here to discuss the whole. And what we wanted was to reduce uncertainty and fear, these are messages of trust. So this amount of 4,000 kuna is a tax write-off and giving them a signal of trust to everyone in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196335	Thank you. Now we're going to the replicas sent to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. I thank the Prime Minister. We have four replicas so you can just prepare yourself for colleagues Batinić, Škibola, Daus and Shuker. My colleague Batinić is on his way first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196336	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, Deputy Minister of Finance. One question. In fact, in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, you provided for an unambiguous borrowing, which is certainly commendable for the initiative. Now I'm curious, that's the part that's going to get less local, regional self-government plus institutions, the possibility of unscathed borrowing to the amount of less tax revenue and income cuts, if I understand that correctly. The law on the financing of local self-government provides for a large number of local self-government and fiscal balancing. Is this about unambiguous borrowing plus even fiscal balancing for those units of local self-government that receive these additional funds? That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196337	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196338	Thank you very much. So this unambiguous loan or loan was introduced in that first round of measures, given that at that time we are only talking about the liquid effect, we are now practically talking about the loss of income both the state budget and local units, depending on the requirements, the number of requirements and all the numerical indicators that will follow after all these strong measures. As we have not ignored local self-government in any of our rounds of tax changes so far, you know that we are one of the laws and we have proposed that through the amendments to the Finance Act, full income tax revenue is granted to local self-government, so we will not now. At the same time, however, it is also decided to say today in some way to promise and take the obligation of all possible measures of this or that kind of compensation for liquidity loss or similar is very difficult because, as you have seen, some of the representatives were respected and referred to and to the conclusions of the government that we made yesterday, we give a strong message and concrete measures on our part. But the same strong appeal goes to public enterprises and local self-government for action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196339	Thank you. Here you go, pal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196340	Thank you, President of the Parliament. The Honorable Ministers of Finance. I'm interested in whether you're going to help the sailors and that the measures apply to the seamen because we know that they can't go on board right now, many of them are stuck on ships, and the law that applies to them is that if they don't go sailing in a year, then if they're not sailing 183 days, they have to pay certain taxes, taxes, so I'm interested in whether or not you've thought about them within these measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196341	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196342	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It is visible from these measures, of course, to focus on domestic economy and domestic business entities or citizens, but it is also not intended to ignore anyone. At the moment that we have done something concrete, or in terms of this, we have foreseen certain specific interests about them, of course, we will discuss these specific cases as well. The same question is whether the sailor is an employee of some domestic company or some international firm, just like anyone else who works on some job abroad. In any case, all such individual cases or isolated in relation to horizontal approach as so far, of course we will be willing to consider and see how and how to act is not the idea of turning back to anyone in one way or another in these circumstances. However, as we've all said many times already in one way or another, if not so far, then surely affected by a virus coronary defect, in terms of economical, I don't mean health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196343	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196344	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. The IDS welcomes these measures, we are pleased to find them correct and concrete that they were proposed, they are on the trail almost entirely of what IDS was talking about 15 days ago. I'm just interested in your opinion, and might that be better, in part or in full release of certain tax duties, 20 to 50 or over 50%, is that sample from three months of April to June enough, or would it be fairer to avoid any manipulations and calculations from 49 to 51% is little to be a sample throughout the year, and until then, a moratorium on payment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196345	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196346	Thank you, Your Honor, for your support and for your constructive contribution to the debate in the first round of our debates, and here we are now. The measure is as such an intention of activity itself and measures more than clear. Now the very way of implementation, definitions and criteria and everything about these shades can always be discussed. However, I think it is very clear to all of us that the state administration has done a very good job, and that is that all these criteria that we have prescribed are extremely understandable and simple and passing. In some circumstances, however, you have to underline a line somewhere and a line somewhere. After all, even employers have suggested you have to put some sort of so-called. Treshvol, some limit before and after, or in one way or another. I wish I could say that in three months this would be enough, no one happier than me, no more than you, no more than all of us present, nor, I would say, and wider than this very hall. But as we said for the first time, depending on the development of the situation if there is any need and we will react further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196347	Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196348	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President and Minister, both you and the Prime Minister when you presented these first measures, you said that the government would react to the need and you simply confirmed what you said. However, I believe that certain things that the government is taking on would require a more financial emphasis and these 4,000.00 are not actually 4,000.00, but 5.820,00, because the government will take over the cost of pension and health care and that will be on the budget's spending side. Then you have to say it ultimately costs so much and so much to make it clear. The second thing that needs to be pointed out here is the very responsibility of all stakeholders in this process. As they point out at headquarters every day, so in this economic area too, you need to highlight that responsibility and I'm glad you're in art. 1. The General Tax Law in St. 6 made it clear what would happen to those who jumped on a train that did not belong to them. Those who want to withdraw benefits, and they don't, because this money just needs to be left to those who are most needed at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196349	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196350	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Both notes are in place. I'll start with this other one. I think in these circumstances, I also said this in the first round of debate, certainly and circumstances as well as timelines and all circumstances that are related to everything, do not allow surgically precise measures thought out to the smallest possible detail, but we are doing our best to really try to predict everything more possible at this point, not at this particular point in time. However, financial, fiscal and any other discipline must exist and this is also one clear message that these intentions and measures are for real and good entrepreneurs. If there's gonna be anyone on the road who's gonna get on the train, we'll talk about it later. In particular, as far as this measure is concerned, 4,000,00 you're right about the contributions of 5,825,00. What is most important is that we have managed to do so today before you and present the measure that and what has been paid so far will also be taken over to the burden of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196351	Thank you. I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. Now we're going to the debate, I got a signal that a colleague of mine called Zekanovic is asking for a break. In violation of the Rules of Procedure, here's my colleague Zekanovic for just a second, here's my colleague, Bauk. [[Injury of the Rules of Procedure]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196352	Mr. President, the officer has been injured. In 235, which you and I know about the inability to replicate MPs, but the violation of the Rules of Procedure requires in a formal sense that I may then request a session of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System to define the way in which we work in such conditions so that we no longer argue at the session by calling the representatives of the matches, etc., and in that sense I declare that I will also request a session of the Committee on the Constitution in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196353	Comrade Bauk, so we've defined the rules of conduct, they're not as common as they are because we have the coronary virus as a threat and we've put chairs here so that all MPs are protected. So, now in these circumstances, to say that I hurt the Rules of Procedure because there is no replica, we agreed earlier that two representatives from each club participate in the debate, I think it's very incorrect because then we can say that all MPs can be in the assembly today, and they're not, so we agreed because they're extraordinary conditions. So please accept this one. As far as the matchmakers are concerned, I said they're acting like a matchmaker, I didn't call anybody, but I think if we agree on the rules of the game, then someone comes and tries to trick me and I don't think that's right. My fellow coat of arms, here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196354	Your Honor, Mr. President, an officer has been injured. 233 and 234 and 235. Rules of Procedure. The deal's a deal. And the agreement between colleagues and colleagues is mostly respected. But the deal is not rules. The rules are in the Rules of Procedure on the work of HS. The Rules of Procedure on the work of HS we are obliged to stick to. If we want to translate the agreement into something binding, we have a provision. 234. The Rules of Procedure on the work of HS, then we apply it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196355	I said what I had, so I don't want to say it again. Comrade Zekanovic, please take a break. My colleague Bulj is also looking for a break. As far as I know, you're still in the same club with a colleague, Zekanovic, so you can't have two breaks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196356	I'm looking for a five-minute break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to further consult on this set of laws. Namely, once again I must warn and ask whether we, or the Croatian Government, were blind when she watched for several months the coronary crisis coming from the far east towards Europe? The Republic of Croatia has not been the only one acting indifferently, I would dare say the whole of Europe, the whole EU has been waiting for the crown crisis to happen. Unfortunately, it was, it was so, not all that could be done in good time. Some measures have been taken, but most measures have not been taken. I also asked a question here that was very important, and I didn't get an answer and I'd ask it again. What will happen to all those unemployed, newly unemployed people who got fired because of the fear of the crown crisis, which the employers sent to HZZ and today simply have no income? Here again and this crisis will break over the back of the weakest, so it usually happens, over those who wanted to work seasonally, and they won't be able to work, over the back of those who got fired because employers were scared justifiably or unjustly of this crown crisis. So these are things to talk about and have to be offered a solution. The measures aren't bad. However, I must say that the measures are late, that 15 days ago this set of measures proposed by Croatian sovereigns would not have had 10 thousand newly unemployed at the employment office. So, the whole of Europe, the whole of the EU, but I'm even going to say Western civilization watched the crown crisis come, nothing happened, I must say that I am also from a pay phone in the Croatian Parliament 5. Majors warned the government of the Republic of Croatia that we should prepare ourselves. We are where we are and we must use this crisis to help the Croatian state as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196357	Thank you, the break will be approved. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196358	Thank you very much for asking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to consult on the government's proposal. I'm going to say again at the beginning that MOST independent lists in the first package proposed a write-off, not a delay, this is a little late, but better ever than never and of course we're going to support these measures. However, we must say that this crisis, the crown crisis, has exposed the bad policies implemented by Croatian governments. The policies that we have at this point mean that we have never imported food products again, and today the markets are closed, regardless, here is a question for all of us, which is why the markets are closed, and in the trade chains we can buy where there are more vulnerable and cashiers in the indoor area, which is why the market, me, is unclear, and in these trade chains the foreign, the agricultural products of Italian pomadors, will now have Spanish strawberries, while the example of Vrgorje strawberry now 500 tonnes will have no space to sell its own products. So why can't we at the markets make the measures that the call means our Civil Protection headquarters? For what? What's gonna make those strawberries fall apart? They are now 500, 600 tonnes, and so is dairy production, so all agricultural products and dairy products. It has engulfed Croatia's policies mainly agriculture in unprocessed land, 790,000 hectares in the Republic of Croatia's agricultural land is unprocessed as we import 3 billion euro of harmful products. This is why the import lobby responsible for the damages in Croatia destroyed agriculture has evicted our people from the village, and until the village is at the helm until it's over. Until there is a rich peasant and the village of Croatia will have problems mainly in these crises. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196359	The apartment will be approved. My colleague Ostojić, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196360	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the SDP Club, I am saddening the break because it is very important to warn, and just before my colleague Pusic said so, which is that one of the victims of the virus's crown is also democracy. That can't happen here in the assembly. You, Mr. President, are obliged to respect the Rules of Procedure, and the clubs have agreed to the agreement, and there has never been a word in there that the replicas will be lifted. Obviously, when one thing is allowed, it goes on. It is also the fear that exists in the Croatian public, which is that if we agree and if it becomes a norm it will be a serious problem. Deal and recommendation yes, all right. That's what the crisis headquarters does, but it can't happen that you call MPs and matchmakers, or that they're people who just want to consume what's prescribed by the Rules of Procedure adopted in this assembly. We agreed to these conditions, it's not easy to work here, we stick to 2 here, the SDP has shown constructiveness from the very beginning, we haven't asked it to be according to the number of MPs precisely because we respect the situation we're in. But you must be the first, first defender of democracy and make the most of it. The deal can't be a norm, it's something of a recommendation and don't deny the right that we have under the law and under the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196361	My colleague Ostojić, I don't think you've been here, I asked when my colleague Lovrinović suggested that we discuss 15 minutes per club if we would then accept that provision and that there was no replicating more than 2 per club. And everyone agreed to the coat of arms that was here. And now you call me why. Well, that's amazing, I mean, but what am I supposed to do now? Here's a fellow Pupavac, no, not what you need. No, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, buddy Pupavac. What's wrong with you? ... Kologa Ostojić, we have reached an extended agreement at the presidency that two MPs will participate in the debates and we stick to it and this morning you come now to want everyone to participate with the replicas. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] That was in front of the assembly. We enter the assembly, he suggests that fellow Lovrinovic extend the debate around the clubs. I accept that, and then I say are you ready to have two replicas on behalf of the clubs? Get along with your club. And now you're calling me "Why am I applying it?" Well, because there are extraordinary circumstances and not everything is prescribed then to this Rules of Procedure, but it is a matter of agreement and some elemental correctness between us that we can function at all. Now you call me like I went to cheat on you. And to the colleagues who went in knowing that a deal had been reached and trying to use it so that someone didn't notice it, I said that some act as if they were matchmakers. So I didn't name anyone, but I said that this kind of fraud isn't correct and it's been exposed. Here you go. My fellow Pupavac, I apologize, but here's my colleague Ostojić insists, so I'll give him the right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196362	Injured Rules of Procedure, Article 234, Mr. President, is the usual procedure in the assembly that you cannot deny me the right to harm the Rules of Procedure, that is why I am telling you. The second deal can't be a norm. The third one you agreed at the meeting and the deal that was in the assembly, and the second one here and the third one, don't say that we weren't there, we were out there because there could only be two of us inside. It's not there. agreed never at that meeting [[The incursion of the president: I thank you.]] Present, excuse me... [[Break president: colleague Ostojić, thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196363	Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196364	You can't, I haven't run out of time when you interrupted me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196365	No, you're out of time for five seconds I gave you more than what was planned, that's 30 seconds. Thank you very much. I don't think there's been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, so here's your colleague, Pupovci.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196366	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS advocates' club is looking for a break to confirm once again whether our position and our opinion is that the government and that the Parliament, that the state institutions have done well in protecting three things, protecting people's health and people's lives, protecting the health and sustainability of the economy and protecting the sustainability and health of democracy in Croatia. Those who say Croatia was late, let them take a look when America left. Let them see when the Great Britain is on its way. Those who say that Croatia has possibly applied a bad model, let them see if we have had any dilemmas about the application of medical, sanitary or any other model as some countries had and modified it in the middle of the health crisis. Secondly, as far as the economy is concerned, the tenacity in this case is reasonable. And colleagues who say they suggested something yesterday, which the government today has accepted every honor, but the gradualness in this case is reasonable because too many measures and premature measures in the economy can also be dangerous, as can be dangerous for those who are not on time. So far things are going on time. As far as democracy is concerned, as you once said, it seems to me that the prime minister is in a position to balance between excellence and regularity. If there are things that need to be fixed, as there are some laws, there are amendments tabled here, they are invested by clubs, they are invested by committees, and these amendments should certainly be considered by the Government in the most serious way to preserve that balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196367	The apartment will be approved. Now it's Comrade Sagar's turn, and he's also asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196368	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of HSU, SNAGA, independent representatives, SNAGA and New Policy, I also request a five-minute break in order to agree on government measures to save jobs and liquidity of entrepreneurship. And on the other hand, to once again argue that these measures, although good, do not cover all those aspects that are at stake in the Republic of Croatia at this point. Whether it's about citizens who are in a different social situation, whether they're unemployed citizens, whether they're students, pensioners, or sailors mentioned here by their colleagues. Whether it is other vulnerable groups that are not covered by these measures that are likely to be in danger tomorrow that they cannot service their directors or their loans, we therefore believe that the Government must come out with such measures as soon as possible. The other aspects we want to consider are the processes that are at risk in Croatian society. It is certain that this crisis also affects democratic processes in the Republic of Croatia. We can't close our eyes and say it's not like that. This confirms today's debate here in the assembly where it is actually incomprehensible that we are at all discussing whether or not a representative in HS can speak. A representative in HS can and must speak, that's his job. That's why someone came from their home here, endangering health and those who get there, where they'll come back, and then those who are here. That's why I think you can see it. The second thing we need to take seriously is the position of all of our students who and the teacher, who are doing so in this situation. The distance school and they come, they're actually asking about their testing, their evaluation, their colleges and their national prom. It is urgent that measures should be taken not to, in fact, prevent all those misunderstandings that appear in public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196369	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. All MPs will be able to speak in individual debates, so there is no dispute or dilemma about it. Comrade Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196370	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Democrats to warn of the position of the workers in the crown crisis. In fact, it is commendable that the employers will be paid four thousand kunas to workers, but our employers have inventive methods of keeping some of these funds rather than paying the workers. Instead of the government making an effort and paying the funds directly to the current accounts of workers, it is a little harder, but it is much safer for workers to get what they deserve. Also, there are inventive methods to send workers, instead of waiting, to benefit from part of their vacations and all that is what the government has not responded and what the Ministry of Labour and the pension system has failed to do. We can see that jobs are lost on a daily basis, and many are already lost and all of this confirms that the government's reaction in this area is delayed and has left the situation to the employers, instead of sitting down with the unions and starting a tripartite dialogue at these moments because it is something that will ensure that there are no more privileged and less privileged. The government, together with employers and trade unions, was to sit at a common table, agree on the measures we will be working on in this crisis because these measures would be much better quality and would not lead to what we have today, that workers are currently at risk on the labour market and that employers are protected by these measures. I declare that the government initiates a tripartite dialogue and that a social agreement is reached in Croatia between Governments, trade unions and employers around [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] getting out of the crown crisis. [[Intruder president: Stanka.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196371	The apartment will be approved, thank you. Now it's Stephen Curaj, a colleague on behalf of the CNS, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196372	I thank the Honorable President, I demand a break on behalf of the CNS to discuss both these measures and this emerging situation. First of all, as far as the measures are concerned, we can talk here, but the fact is that these are extraordinary circumstances that require and extraordinary measures, something that no one has ever had a chance to meet before, and something that we can't do over our knees, overnight, and knock our heads off regardless of because there's a lot of things here at stake. First of all, the safety and lives of our citizens, and then what happens later. We also need to think about what will happen later and how life will continue as soon as possible, but we are also thinking about the economy, and that is why it is time to think about the second step now, which later. So it's in that direction that I've been talking about both public procurement and the thresholds and about the state having to generate a job after this crisis and already at a time of crisis because the more work we give for something that we're going to have to do anyway, the more value we're going to have to do, and we didn't just give the money, but we got one more value. As far as working here, I know this is unusual, but I ask all my colleagues, clubs, to put their individual egos aside, I know there are a lot of people who would like to talk about it right now, the deal is what it is, we've all agreed here, and we just might just sit down at the table again, agree something, but I think it's a good thing that we're not burdening our standard way of meeting now the Croatian public when it's least necessary, but again to do what it is and the purpose of this whole thing to do what's best for these citizens. And that's why first at the club level, then and then at the level here I think how good this way of working is and I invite everyone that those who don't really have to take pictures and talk here to give it to colleagues that.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196373	The apartment will be approved. My colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196374	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am looking for Stanku on behalf of the HDS, HDSSB and HSLS Club to further consult on the debate on points that are on the agenda, or to manage to collect additional data compared to the measures taken by the government at the time of the crisis which was more significant and less important, given that there are just a few colleagues who were at the time, a good part of them were ministers in that government, today here in the debate on these points of the agenda that our citizens, our entrepreneurs, our employees are waiting to hear what is being discussed here today, which is going to vote, which are the measures that will help them overcome their daily difficulties and this crisis, hear such overlap and this sorting, formalisation and politics. It will be an opportunity for all those colleagues who, in some ways, wish to offend what the Croatian Government is doing in the management of this crisis, and it is estimated that everyone is making very good moves that they may be consulting among themselves a little bit and that in some ways we should approach the continuation of this debate and be as responsible and in the interests of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196375	Thank you. The apartment will be approved. Now it's time for you, dear colleague Ivan Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196376	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I request a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to reaffirm their support for the government once again and to highlight certain matters. Because it's obvious that when you have nothing concrete to object to, it's the easiest thing to say that something is too late. However, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we want to highlight first and foremost the government's responsible and rational behaviour since the start of this crisis. So, the government did not run ad hoc with measures, these measures, the first measures preceded a series of talks, starting with resolution ministers, through the complete financial sector with employers, with unions for one single reason to come to a common position from where to start, because it is not only being considered today in these measures by the government, but also by the Prime Minister and the Vice President and the Vice President are constantly stressing, but also thinking about what will be tomorrow when this stops. And that may be the greatest quality of all this together. So, first of all, responsibility and rationality, because if we don't act this way, if we don't watch how much all the stakeholders of the financial sector can contribute at the moment, and that ultimately, it costs Croatia's citizens and the Croatian economy first and foremost, then this won't be effective. And the logical thing is that the Prime Minister for the same table sat the Minister, the governor of the CNB, the bankers, should include insurance companies and pension funds, take advantage of the possibility from the EU, take advantage of the maximum full potential that we are currently given to help the economy and what is very important that the Prime Minister and vice president emphasized, and it may well have gone a little bit on the side, which is that the next package is being considered, which is to help Croatian citizens who need it most. It only clearly states how rational the government is thinking and how ready it is to react at any moment to complete the measures if the situation so requests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196377	Thank you. I'll give you a break. Let's go now, dear colleague of the Anka Dark Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196378	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the GLAS Club. During our discussion and replicas there, the city of Zagreb shook 2.3 again and shaking it all the time. We would like to see if, through certain amendments to these laws, we can also install the problem of the earthquake or the consequences of the earthquake in the City of Zagreb. The HDZ coalition partner at both state and city level is Mr Bandic Milan, who made it clear that he is in no hurry. Well, it would be good then and clearly say that the state will rebuild its facilities, that the City of Zagreb will restore its facilities and it does not require a special law, but who will renew the citizens of the City of Zagreb for this is the law needed. And if you have decided to leave the citizens of the City of Zagreb and their own consent, so who will be able to manage, who will not, someone else will manage for him. That clearly needs to be communicated. We will see if it is possible through these laws which are very limited framework to do something and send some message to the citizens of Zagreb that they are not left behind. Because the citizens of Zagreb were left behind, at this point all these cranes you see, these are not cranes that are there because someone organized, regardless of the state or city, they organized themselves with their own resources. Don't let the result of the earthquake in the city of Zagreb be something that's already being told a lot, which is, the state will rebuild, the city will rebuild, those who have money will restore their money, and those who won't have money will be the mechanics who will buy, tear down, and suddenly the earthquake in the city of Zagreb will turn into some kind of mixed business. We can't let that happen, and it certainly can't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196379	Stanka will be approved and we will go to the last request for a break, a respected colleague, Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196380	Thank you, Mr. President. In front of the Club We change Croatia and Live Wall I demand a break to discuss the package of measures we have heard here. Namely, what's this about? Only in one sentence did the prime minister and finance minister mention the CNB, and when we look at, from America, Western European countries and to Japan, central banks still play a key role in solving the crisis. Why? Because only central banks can offer unlimited liquidity in their currencies. The finance minister said that saving the economy would cost about 45 billion and added 20 more. However, he did not answer the question where he would obtain the necessary money. From here I warn you, there is no need for you to be in charge especially abroad but exclusively on the domestic market. If you're on the domestic market, then at least 3/4 of the CNB at 0% interest. If you do otherwise, you will be responsible for this because you have simply done damage to the Croatian economy and the people. This, these loans from the CNB, it's folk, it's gotta be folk, it's never been. So this happens once in 30 years, so these interventions have to go that way. On the other hand, we suggest, Mr. President, helicopter money, and you know, you've heard what it is, it's been shared by Trump these days, Australia has divided. Many other nations shared, even Serbia the other day. It is that the central bank, the CNB, directly identifies all adult citizens in Croatia 2x per 2,000 kuna, means 4000 kuna, to preserve consumption, demand, thus producing, hiring and affecting a lower GDP decline. Those are measures, they're state-owned, listen to them, it doesn't matter what we suggest. Some things you have well announced, but these are crucial and we must now, for hours here, save the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196381	Thank you. The apartment will be approved. So we'll continue at 11 o'clock and 45 minutes. The first Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, dear colleague Bozo Petrov, will speak. It's a date. The meeting's over. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. The first is a respected colleague, Bozo Petrov, on behalf of the Association of Independent Lists Bridges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196383	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us today is a new package to mitigate the consequences caused by the coronary virus epidemic in our society, in our economy. We've already started a discussion in an optimistic tone. What we can see with this new package of measures that the government adopted yesterday at its session is that they have partly adopted those proposals given to them by entrepreneurs, citizens, but so have we as an opposition. And that's good. If there were a little more will to listen, they could have happened two weeks ago. But I don't think it's time for such discussions right now, the most important thing is that the government has decided to take more decisive measures and that's good. First of all, of all the measures that have been adopted, the most important one is the write-off, not the delay, and that's what the Most emphasizes from the very beginning, the delay was not enough. I'm glad the government adopted it. That now the write-offs of direct donations have been adopted and this package itself makes enough decisive measures that we can have a real time-out for the economy. Time-out for two months. Not a solution. But we have plenty of time to consolidate and bring in the right measures that will help our economy return. Also, by passing this law, it became clear that the government debt would grow and that there were no small figures, tens of billions of kuna being said. And I want to underline that precisely because we need to be aware that the state will be in charge. Question by which coefficients, by which interest. We also don't know how long this crisis will take, but it's important to point out that the citizens know that. She's going to be in charge of all of this. Someone will lend it, but the debt will come back, the debt must be paid back, and the citizens should be aware that it will be paid back by all taxpayers through their taxes next year. As for the measures taken by the others, there are plenty. Some are good, some could be designed even a little better in the short or in the medium term. We think that some of these measures should be permanent, to show that the paradigm of the state-economic relationship has changed, that's what we can listen to all the time in the last two weeks, the change in the paradigm. I want to see that some changes to some decision, some measures that have been taken in the last two weeks to be permanent, not to be temporary. So we showed that the paradigm of the country's relationship to the economy has really changed, and that it has changed the paradigm of economic policy, that's important. I'll take one measure the government said would be temporary, when it would become permanent and then you've made a real change in the paradigm of state and economy relations, and that's VAT collection at charge. This is what MOST has warned of for years, according to the finance minister today in peacetime conditions. You'll remember we used to say that a lot of times. Why? So it's just not right for the state to be the first in line to charge when the entrepreneur does something and produces that the state doesn't care whether he manages to charge it or not, the state immediately charges VAT immediately per invoice, as soon as he issues the bill. It's not correct, we warned about it. Now that this situation has finally led to it, let's call it a VAT break, so is it correct after a few months when the situation stabilizes to get back to bad practices? This measure that finally triggered this epidemic, this crisis, this measure should be permanent. Now she's gonna show that we've really learned lessons and previous crises and this crisis. In addition to this measure, there are still certain measures that we believe should be lasting, which we have talked about before, that is to erase the tax advances on profits. It's also a reinvested profit relief, they can be permanent. You will send them a message, with them you will send a message to investors and creditors that we have changed our relationship to the economy, to workers and to entrepreneurs, that we are friendly towards all those who want to invest in Croatia, to all those who have any entrepreneurial initiative. There is also one measure that the Government has unfortunately not yet adopted as a proposal, but we will continue to insist on it because we consider it extremely important, which is to provide State support grants for micro and small entrepreneurs, i.e. For those self-employed craftsmen, for freelancers, for family businesses, my people don't have enough liquidity to endure months as large systems, they may not have enough financial resources to support the month, but they carry part of this economy, for them it should be made possible. Every enterprise, no matter how big a praise is worth it. If you don't think so, let's be brave, you go out as a self-employed person in a real economy like this, face all those gifts that a man like that needs to give to the state, provide himself with the rest of his life benefits, and then say they don't matter and have enough. Given all the pressures, all the donations that were supposed to give to the state, secure their own pay, believe me, they're heroes right now, and they should be helped, too. The state needs to provide grants for these people, for self-employed, for freelancers, for small family companies. It is also time for the state to undergo a rapid transformation of agricultural production. Our agriculture is fragmented, not as effective as our competitive countries are. Also, many state and private land is unprocessed and, of course, there are acute problems that need to be addressed immediately, which is that our agricultural products come from the fields to our tables. And these broken chains, the buying-in channels of the states need to be solved, and broken chains of states directly at this point need to be solved. In addition, what is acutely to be solved is to allow people to do the necessary work in agriculture now because they are now working, not in a month, two or five months, now. And that's what's acute and that's what needs to be done. But other than what is acute, there are systemic problems in agriculture. The biggest systemic problem is unprocessed agricultural land today in Croatia, which is over 600,000 hectares of which is 300,000 hectares, almost 300,000 hectares owned by the state. When the state passed the Law on Agricultural Land, it is two years old, they said it would help distribute that very agricultural land. The last two years totaled 11,000 hectares of 300,000, and this rest became hostage politics and blackmail at county and local levels. That's what the state needs to deal with today. We must, I guess, learn to be self-sufficient, self-sustainable. This means that one of the main fundamental economic branches in Croatia should be agriculture. Yeah, we hear from the government that she finally realized what I don't want to stay on the verbal level. I haven't heard from the government exactly this most important piece of information and the most important measure, you put into operation 300,000 processed agricultural areas that are in your possession, which you don't assign. Assign it even if it's free, grant it on condition that it finally starts to be used, let it be the only condition, but let people work. I believe that there are enough people in Croatia today who want to deal with agriculture, but a number of bureaucratic problems and pillars exist on that path, and besides that, there is approximately no love for those who should do so. With all these other problems that I have cited so far, at least we can be honest and honest today, we can say that the current agricultural policy has led to an almost burned country. I guess this lesson taught us. In addition to these topics, I would like to talk about those people that the Croatian government obviously doesn't hear enough at this time of silence. Shut up about the 230,000 people who have been completed, who have had problems so far, and now imagine what all the problems will happen to them with this crisis. We could hear from the government that he was going to pass a new executive law, he didn't pass, it didn't happen. As a result, MOST will give legislative changes to the parliamentary procedure that will allow temporary and they will be given the opportunity to postpone the execution due to special circumstances that have occurred as a result of the coronary epidemic. It's simply not fair that the minimum amount that the government has now given because of this situation that it is being completed and that it goes to the executives is simply not correct, it's not fair. The government must act accordingly, not be silent. We still hear nothing but silence about it. If the state in the national solidarity of wage keeping act has given jobs a minimum of 4,000 kuna, why don't we leave it to people, why do you allow it to be taken away by 230,000 people who are under wraps? Other countries did it, Slovenia did it first, it's nothing weird, it's not impossible, it can be and it needs it. At the end of my presentation, I'll just talk about public sector cuts because they need to be done. What I should also warn you of all that has so far been almost impossible to do, all these bureaucratic columns, walking from counter to counter, no today, interesting. Everything we've heard that can't be spent years digitizing, in a few days or weeks you've done. So you can, you can do 100% of the digitization that is your indicator today of everything you do and that can include the domestic IT industry. But what I must warn you is that politicians, officials, are the first to show by example that they will give up, that they will help, that they will bear the burden. But don't let it stay on it because then it's cheap pulsism. Do not ask us to agree that you will cut the salaries of the education sector, the health sector as long as you have not arranged what is important, and this is this mess of 550 municipalities, 20 counties, belonging to city municipal county companies, belonging to state-owned companies. That's what you do. That's what you're supposed to do. And when you do, then you can transfer the burden to both health and education sectors, without it it's all cheap populism and you have no right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196384	Before we move to the second debate of the HNS Representatives Club, just a notice. Therefore, in agreement with the applicants on Monday at the end of these announced laws, three points of the agenda would then be discussed, namely the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the HNB Act, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions and Investment Companies. Also after Tuesday's vote, they would hold a united debate on 10 SDP-proposed legislative proposals, so that would be Tuesday after the vote. That you will get naturally in this week's motion debate for next week. We are now going to the club of representatives of the HNS are two representatives, the first colleague is Curaj, after him a colleague of Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196385	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Immediately at the start of the HNS club will support these new proposed measures. In principle you can see a lot of shifts, some of the things that I talked about here last week, but also in the Parliament the first time the measures were taken are now the same and implemented and in the extreme line, I believe in the framework of possibilities. What's important, what suffers most not only our employers when we talk about the economy but also citizens are at times of pay cuts, do not give God the loss of work and all the credit obligations of the same. What is good and what I think for the first time in a while the CNB reacted so significantly that it reduced the minimum reserves by a quarter, so from 12 to 9% and also made it possible for all those who were regular, and now we are talking about measures towards banks, which were regular in subsisting their obligations from 31.12.200, their now delays do not pay as a reservation or as a cost. And that's where one space was created and liquid, and possibly for banks to just introduce these moratories. Moratories on the principle that three months nothing is paid and you move on at the end of the payment plan, you add those same three months. So, that the cost is important that this moratorium does not generate additional costs at the end of the entire payment period, both for economies and for citizens and that citizens are informed about their banks some have already begun to give instructions and that is good and certainly I call on citizens, it is also good to remember, as well as employers to regulate according to their opportunities. What you would certainly say as the main motto of ours is that we always go in all measures with maximum write-off, and minimally with red tape. And I think that on the trail of this information that we've been getting lately that we're already making payments for this fee for 3,250 kuna or now 4,000 which is going to be that we're even going to pay off and that the tax solution is very fast that this is exactly on that trail and that we need to allow as little tax burdens on our employers and the economy as possible, and that's how we're doing with these measures and we're very much doing it there, I'd like to just find a solution for the associations as much as possible. We have various associations, from those sports to those who exercise some public authority, social etc., whose funding is, is not questionable and they also have a lot of employees to be, that they can actually apply to this type of measure and tax exemption of contributions and the income tax itself, as well as these measures 4,000 kuna aid. What is important in this, and there would certainly agree to use this to rightly improve this relationship business to govern, so the way our employers, our companies, our business owners, craftsmen, above all, that we must not forget in this whole thing because they are still the most affected by the state that this electronic communication is absolutely perfected and maintained afterwards. What I want to mention and what I want us all to think about right now, not now to bid here, who's going to give more, who's going to be smarter, who's going to help better, who's going to grab maybe.../incomprehensible/... doesn't even know where to grab it, because we need to know that we need to have a balanced part so we can't give towers and yards, and we don't have cover or know what tomorrow. So I also said in the replica, we need to think about what in 2, which in 3 months, how to stimulate the season, how we obviously will have the greatest part of the potential of tourism in our own citizens, how to motivate them and through some kind of maybe tax relief, payment of accommodation, whatever, to save that season that will certainly be drastically lower in the results now, but also that the state is starting what I've already said several times, what it has planned this year and the next two years in some projection period, work fast, intensively in the next few months, through its own credit duties, plans, for something that remains, which is added value of renewal. So if we need to equip schools and we know that in the next 2, 3 years we're going to have 1,800 classrooms not to wait 3 years, we're going to do it in the next 3 months or when it starts. We are talking about low construction of the Croatian highways have a plan this year to rebuild 100 km of highways, this year, we are going to do it now that there is no more traffic on the roads, especially because of tourism and everything that has otherwise brought us the biggest traffic. And so on in the renovation means equipment, where you hire more industries, more that won't even need these measures, and it won't be to the extent that when we talk about write-offs, it won't even cross traffic over 50% to get write-offs. And in this way, the state actually stays more or less in the same place because someone will have to give it to him if he doesn't give him jobs and if he doesn't provide economic activity, and on the other hand, all of these things will be in order and there will be extra value left, so those roads remain, those facades remain, these equipment, benches, schools, whatever. There are various things that are certainly in some planning and investment maintenance plans, and the point is to go into everything that doesn't need any extra project documentation, that some public procurement is carried out for months, even years, etc. Anything that is possible quickly, by urgency, by offer, practically negotiating procedure 3 offers, but not certainly at prices that differ from the average of the same supply to the last one, I don't know how many 6 months, a year, however you want. So you can make those restraint mechanisms. And that's actually what we should be telling us how to activate the economy and how to welcome that day after. Is what we've given someone money if they're not after two months when they no longer have the right to do what they're going to do, I won't say thrown into the wind because someone lives off that money and it's good, more or less those who don't now would get similar and fee from the bureau so they'd be on the same, but our goal is to encourage that economy. So let's try to think that way, with suggestions and we need to be constructive. It is absolutely no time to bid and court the citizens but what is possible in the frameworks and therefore the HNS and supports these particularly other measures the Government will and will support them and let's talk about what will be the day after.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196386	Thank you, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, Minister, means I will briefly look back on these measures and this part of the measures relating to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, in order to in some way enable local and regional self-government unambiguous lending, which was announced in the first wave. Equally, at local level, we will feel a reduction in income from taxes because we are mostly financed from taxes and income cuts. The city tax is so to say communal compensation and contributes more or less aware of the circumstances of the situation if they are not, I think that the vast majority of local self-government leaders have already made one step, from the release of those who do not work, to the possible participation of the minimum of those who do yet, from co-financing of kindergartens etc., etc. I can practically say from my own experience that somewhere in projection during the duration and recovery of all these municipal taxes that my budget gave up around 10% of tax revenues. What is the projection of the decline in income at the bar, how much will be with the basis of tax and income cuts at the moment is difficult to assume. If we go mathematically fast, given the number of these benefits the minimum wage to say, how many jobs have already been reported, companies that use what praises are valuable measures can expect a drastic drop in tax revenues at the level of local self-government. Of course, it will vary depending on the structure of the revenue side. Now, the interest of all countries here has been very clearly specified in these measures, life cannot, must not stand, investment as much as possible must continue, of course, in accordance with the financial opportunities and fiscal capacity of possible debt by the state. Of course, we have to give up everything that isn't necessary, especially at the bar, and also at national level. But the ministers here say you're going to make a special guideline, so you're well aware of the situation at local level. Many local self-government projects have already been in charge or have been in debt, many will be in trouble, they will be able to extend and the moratorium loans will be on loans, however I would not like to, I would like you to define it very precisely and give a very clear framework for the possible possible task of local self-government, and there would be exclusively to prefer a debt to investment, not to know what already. Above all, it must be satisfied to continue to realise European projects, investments. Investments that would generate added value, and simply reduce the expenditure of the state in terms of support and assistance, but the criteria should also be traced if one thing does not happen, which is that local self-governments are practically placed in a position that they will not be able to serve, I will not say pay but those basic functions they have. So it's from kindergartens, from maintaining municipal infrastructure, from those who have education under them, so that part shouldn't be questioned by amounts that would be granted unambiguous loans. You are also aware of the facts, meaning the decision is made by municipal or city councils, but you will have to be a filter and you will have to define certain criteria not only in a transparent way but you will also have to be a mediator in that part of your service. Furthermore, the question, you speak here, and this interests a large number of local self-governments and regionals from northern Croatia, the less developed areas of the Law on the financing of local self-government is so called. It's a fiscal balancing fund. So many local self-governments couldn't achieve average income, so the state compensates from the remaining income tax revenues, how will this relationship now manage to balance, and in this direction, I believe you're thinking, how will the interest-free loans be raised to what amount? Are these basic tax revenues and income tax cuts plus fiscal balancing, which units are receiving, and will it be possible at all to realise from the Finance Act that fiscal balancing fund since it has been accounted for over the past five years? So the purely technical issues that you trust me are extremely important to the entire local self-government, especially in those parts of the mountain-mounted, less developed landscapes or those local self-governments that fall under the category of fiscal balance. In general, I would like to see in that part, of course certain procedures must be implemented, very clear criteria because do not forget another detail that can be taught in this situation by the experience of previous long years when the government or the finance minister, when he approved the credit position, many local self-government simply because it was not the government, the minister was not the filter, they brought their local self-governments into very unfavourable positions, they were practically unable to function. And don't forget one more thing, 2021 is local elections and turn on that one moment, and I think we all understand what we're talking about with regard to the possibility of using credit funds. As counterpart Curaj said, the HNS club of liberal Democrats will support these measures, I believe that we would all like not to need new measures, new state interventions to save jobs, but if necessary, I believe that the government will react promptly and this time despite many criticisms. However, I would also like in this situation, and already the circumstances themselves teach us, less bureaucracy, more realization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196387	Thank you. Let's move on, now it's time for the Live Wall Representatives Club and let's change Croatia, too, two MPs and representatives, first colleague Lovrinović, after which, colleague Sabolek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196388	Thank you. Dear President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected finance ministers, and I especially welcome you citizens who are now following us. Dear citizens, these crises rarely happen. We've seen many, but this one's unique, and it can't be solved in a textbook way. Hence, it is unusual and difficult situations require unusual solutions and innovation. And right here I want to immediately in front of the Party Let's change Croatia to welcome some of the good measures that this government has now taken, it is primarily an increase of minimumers from 3.200,00 to 45.00, a decision or measure to pay VAT for the paid realisation, not invoiced, and we have been looking for it since I've been in the assembly. And I'm asking this government to make this VAT decision that in realized terms of traffic, that's how it's paid because it's 20-30. Entrepreneurs are funding, the Ministry of Finance, the state, which sucks. But you see these measures that I just mentioned two weeks ago I'm here in the form of amendments, dear citizens do you remember, suggested and sorry that the government didn't have hearing then because we lost two precious weeks because people, a lot less would have been fired from the business sector if they knew about these measures. But okay, let's move on, I guess something, some of that and adopt ourselves in the next few days. It wouldn't be good if we had March measures, April measures, May measures. Look, this is a crisis that's specific, I said. This is where you look two or three steps forward, not when the moon comes, and we'll see what happens. That way we won't be able to solve this situation properly. If we don't act 2-3 steps ahead, and there are some measures missing, I'll talk about it, so I want to constructively contribute to that, we're going to gallop into recession. Because otherwise, the recession usually says if two quarters of GDP falls, so we're going to lose GDP so quickly that we can get into recession in a month. So traffic is dropping and company income is dropping. Of course, what's the problem now? The problem is consumption and demand. People are scared, I squeeze in their pocket what's left. So they buy food, medicine, and almost nothing else. If they keep acting like that, here's the way to the recession of whatever they do to me. Well, in that sense, we need to make a few key moves. Here, I suggest here also the finance minister who said the cost of saving the economy would cost about 45 billion kuna. However, we need to explain where the money is to finance these 45 billion kuna expenses. We don't know that. He spoke in an interview with the media about foreign borrowing, with the European Central Bank or the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the IMF even, etc. Dear citizens, I say responsibly none of this is necessary. Nothing, I repeat, is not necessary. Why? We have EUR 19 billion in foreign exchange reserves, it is owned by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We have 150 or 200 billion kuna on our savings, and we have what gold is now worth, it's the central bank, the CNB. In times like this, we see from America, the EU, to Japan, China, so here's Serbia the other day, that bank once in 20, 30 or 50. calls for her to save the situation. Why? Because she's the only one with unlimited money. She can create and produce money for the loan as much as she can? As long as it takes. Therefore, mechanisms are known to do so. Trump put 2,000 a few days ago, 200 billion dollars, their central bank, into the system. So that's how it's done. Because if the central bank, I'm, uh, I haven't heard today except for one sentence, so I care about these governments running away to use the CNB and our kuna. This is the time to use the Kuna people of mine. Well, we need to focus now on domestic transactions, production, so we don't need dollars, Euros, we need kunas. But what's behind this? Well, there's an old habit of creating a 45 billion-dollar debt, that it's taken from business banks, be careful, let's say 0.5-1%, and we're paying interest, and the CNB can be taken at 0%. For the second time today, I am warning this government, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, if they do, I will file criminal charges against them when this crisis is over. Why? Because they directly damaged the Croatian people and this rope they throw at us to save us want to create a hanging noose or an additional increase in public debt, external debt, etc. I've repeated the sources we have. In that sense, I call you again, put the CNB, she and the people, must now show that it is folk, it has not been so far. She has to secure how much money? As long as it takes. The former governor of the European Central Bank when the crisis took place in 2008 asked him what will you do? He said whatever it takes. He opened doors and windows, and if he hadn't done it, who knows what would happen to the EU and their economies today. So, my people, I repeat once again from a few days ago the solution of the Party Let's change Croatia, our economic experts, let the CNB in the next few days use so-called. helicopter money, which means all of the adult citizens of the Republic of Croatia, according to our estimates there are about 2.5 million, which get up to 10,000,00, which received up to 10,000,00 kn net salary, but there are pensioners involved, so all of the adults, that would be 2 times 2,000,00 kn, would total cost 10 billion kuna. It's a grant. A gift. Why? What's the point of that? Well, that's what Americans do, Australians. It must not fall consumption and demand now because if this happens, they start to shoot the link in the chain of economy, and more later it's hard to save, we enter the glib recession. So, I invite you to reason. Do it. Don't let the CNB, who's actually running the CNB today? What kind of price stability? What kind of stability course? The state goes down, my people's economy goes down, and they're smart enough to send us a ball and a government, says save the business, and we'll wait on the side. Dear citizens, if this doesn't come true, listen carefully and hear what is proposed to remember that there are solutions to know that we proposed at the right time, and then in the elections, of course, decide what you're going to do. So, next, open green markets, it's open there, so clean air, open air, people will be much more, less will be able to get infected there than in closed trade chains. Let the little craftsmen go, so there's no rush with them. So people have already learned how to protect themselves, wear masks, gloves, etc., etc. In this context, I'm looking for you and I'm calling for you to stop, Mr. Minister, the VAT on the water. So you understand, within the framework of tourism, people on the island pay 80 kuna one cubic meter of water and there pay VAT 13 kuna. Remove the VAT on the water. Introduce a special tax to banks and telecom operators who only make billions of profits and transfer it abroad, now is the time for them to pay, or contribute and show their solidarity. And let me get this straight. There's a Latin saying that says, "Bis dat, qui cito dat." Twice he gives who gives quickly, the message is clear. Now let's use the CNB, now let's use those billions because after the car gets stuck, God forbid all four wheels in the mud of recession, it'll be bloody, bloody hard. Let's, then, implement measures that the CNB actively finance this crisis, with 0%, pay the helicopter money, and this will be a far, very big help to all of us. And what's especially important. Start big investments because if you don't run big public works and investments, let's do it now. The River-Zagreb railroad. Let it be building in agriculture, refrigerators, droughts, irrigation, so we won't be able to function like that, it's open-air jobs, it's not closed jobs because nobody talked about these big investments today, it's this New Deal, it's got to be because this economy in these conditions, it has elements of state governance, war economy and some markets. Whether it will last another month or more, we don't know that, but we have to implement it now. So, with the best intentions on behalf of the party, I suggest we change Croatia, so that you complete these measures, so that you don't hire us, we have our batteries, we have our own money and as far as foreign currency is concerned, and especially kuna and finally let the CNB be in the service of defence and rescue of the economy and the Croatian people for the first time. Otherwise, if that is not the case, it is long gone and cannot be called either the Croatian or the national or the bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196389	Comrade Sabolek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196390	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens. The living wall supported self-organised entrepreneurs as a party amongst the first ones under the phrase "Sign, not a delay". Now it's visible that the government is facing... to adopt most of the proposals of self-organised entrepreneurs, not of art organizations such as the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The economic theory says, now it's time to spend and primary money emissions. If we want to preserve our economy, this 30 billion aid to the economy is necessary, but we need to know that these measures will not get the desired results, if they will immediately start cutting wages. At a time when states directly donate money to their citizens through so-called. Helicopter money, i.e. colloquial, throwing money out of a helicopter, any reduction in wage mass would mean unusual shortsightedness and would have multiple negative effects. In addition to the aid measures, the salary mass economy must remain the same. It's the only way we can maintain economic activity and ensure a faster recovery. Salary cuts can only be symbolic at the level of the Prime Minister, ministers, parliamentary representatives, board members and supervisory boards, director of institutions, but the total wage mass must remain at the current level because our economic survival depends on it. Moreover, with regrets we can conclude that not all the requirements of self-organised entrepreneurs have been accepted, this is a historic opportunity to deal politically-relevantly and contribute to organisations such as HGK, as well as other parafiscal imposes, which has been missed. It should be noted, what Stigitz explained in a series of his books, which is how austerity measures cannot get out of the crisis and how such measures have always and everywhere failed by breaking and extending the crisis. You saw this best in the differences of approach to the US and Europe crisis when the United States, which spurred consumption from the crisis, came out in just a few years, while Europe, and in particular the Eurozone, using austerity measures from the crisis, came out a lot longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196391	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Milorad Pupovac's turn in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196392	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We're looking at everything that we're going through with the measures taken by the government and that we here with a higher or lower degree of consent, under the impression of what is the most direct, visible danger, which is the coronaryvirus. But seriously, I don't belong among them, they can only call on them, they know that the world's economy would go towards its crisis, perhaps harder than it was in 2008. And no coronaryvirus. And that's why I'm going to say that maybe what's going on with this pandemic here and in the world is an opportunity for awareness, an opportunity for the deepest and most serious awareness, that, before this crisis would happen, before the failure of both banks and financial markets would happen again, action is taken that is necessary to take. So far, in these two steps, the government has taken in the opinion of the club of representatives, and I see most of the club representatives in the assembly, measures that are proportionate to what is necessary to take. We hear very interesting suggestions on what else should be done in this regard. So, we support this set of measures, Mr. Minister, as a club. What we think, and that's where we're going to join other clubs, that's important is speed. The speed of application of these measures. So far, while some colleagues have dramatically dramaticd the rise in unemployment, it is nowhere near what has happened in America in the past two weeks. Of some 150-160 million employees in America, 6.6 million were out of work within 2 weeks with a prospect of increasing to 9 million due to the absence of adequate measures. Therefore, these measures should be continued, they are good in this respect and should be implemented quickly and people working on it in a state apparatus should act spotlessly, should act under complete supervision. Another place that may be weak and which, with such a good measure as 4,000,00 and 5,200,00, together with the settlement of contributions and taxes by the state for workers who will be on a minimum of 4,000,00 is supervision, so that Mr. Ministers do not manipulate employers, not to abuse these measures, not to delay, not to take measures to reduce people's salaries before or as long as these measures are in force. And we know of some cases that have already taken place. So they will take measures, have additional sources, but are already taking measures to reduce their salaries to their employees. It is important to be careful not only that people stay at work but also that employers do not take restrictive measures in terms of reducing the total salaries agreed by collective agreement and using these circumstances as they know how to use them. As far as the subject goes, the subject of the day after which to think about today rather than waiting for that day to come up. The government is also right that a second set of measures that will be discussed on Monday move focus on agriculture. Why? So because this crisis has shown, well, the health crisis, the economic aspect of the crisis, has shown the complete unsustainability of our society, our country when agricultural production is on Wednesdays and the needs of supplying agricultural products under crisis circumstances. And it forces us to commit ourselves to making agricultural production more extensive, to make agricultural production more quality and to make agricultural production, as colleagues and colleagues have pointed out here, and adjusted to make use of all the land that can be used and at the same time to encourage and support not only the issue of the division of the country but also the question of the use of incentives to be placed under absolute supervision. So, we need a state that, as the minister said, we have long not been in this assembly or in the public hearing what the minister said in his post-Prime Minister's statement, important employers are, but it is also important for the state. Why? Because its regulatory role, its stimulating role, the state in these circumstances and in all the following circumstances must remain and must be in this regard. In addition to agriculture, I will say at the end of the great state, a common state which unfortunately fell unfortunately and tragically apart, the Republic of Croatia had a surplus in agriculture of nearly $2 billion. Today, we are struggling to bring her back to life, and it is indeed an opportunity to do so. Other branches where we think it's extremely important to make it are buildings. This is where my colleague Curray talked about it, so I won't be laboring too much. Roads, waterways, the state of our water lines in a series, not only the environment for which the SDSS has special interest, return environments, the environment of special state concerns that are devastated in war circumstances but also in urban environments, in vital urban areas such as Zagreb are in such a condition that it is necessary to invest additional funds. It's an opportunity. Electricity, sewerage, is a particular problem, and this should also be pointed out, because of the depopulation, due to the poor character of the activities of our units of local self-government and county, abandoned drains, abandoned wells, which, when the more abundant rains begin, experience floods that cause huge damage. Now is the opportunity for Mr. Minister to pay attention to this and be some kind of element in our new deal, in our new treaty that the government, which you, which we as representatives are going to initiate, is going to be run by both agriculture and construction and infrastructure. I mentioned the U.S. government, the Democrats and the Republicans are fighting a battle over whether so-called. And building to be accepted, an act to rebuild and invest in infrastructure in the United States, to bring a few more trillions of huge money in order to save and maintain the economy. Major important infrastructure projects are also important for Croatia in this regard, and I would add to that the environment. In what way? Here are some of our colleagues, such as colleagues from Istria, who have been fighting a battle with individual waste dumps for years, who are under control, who are well-run, but who lack additional funds to be fully rehabilitated in special climate conditions of summer months and summer days such as Kastijun. But how many such places are in the vicinity of Rijeka, especially Viskova, how many such wild dumps we haven't managed with either European means or with our own resources. Now's our chance to do it. It is now an opportunity that when it comes to a set of tourism laws, let us pay special attention at a time when the tourist season will not be special, if at all it is to any extent. It will be an advocacy that the state will allow domestic tourists to actually be those who will leave and who will take advantage of the opportunity to keep tourism alive under favourable subsidized circumstances, while at the same time being able to spend a certain amount of time on vacation that they haven't been able to spend in a number of years lately. So these areas also need to be ecologically rehabilitated and activated by people in the tourism sector in the process and on that path of recovery. One more thing I'd say. With regard to the reduction of funds or the cutting of salaries in the public sector, no one is reasonable to do so if the need is imposed, but at the same time if it is to believe the findings of the Institute of Public Finance, the savings it would receive would not be large, but we understand that it is necessary to share the responsibility. And it is certain that even in this House, people will not be opposed to sharing that financial responsibility in this respect. But let us bear in mind that out of the number of people who work in health care, which is 68,000, out of the number of people who work in police jobs and as police officers it's 25,000 we get 93,000 people who, by automaticity with the military, would be excluded from such measures. What's left? 137,000 would remain in the public sector as a whole. So that would almost be halved, those expectations, let's not have any real expectations in this regard. Here someone, a colleague from the Living Wall, spoke of the need to preserve consumption and should be preserved. The public sector was one of the sources of conservation of consumption. The peace was one of the sources of conservation of consumption. I'm not an economist, and when I say things like this, I'm aware of the risk that I don't know all the other parameters that can affect something, but when we make a decision in this regard, we need to be extremely careful that science is also our developmental strength. In what sense is the developmental force? Well, let's see now. If we had an Immunology Service, we'd have our own meds, if we had the Institute in Pliva as we had it, we'd have our own meds. But what did we destroy first? We destroyed it first. Who's mind? Well, not because of our brains, but because of the absence of our brains, but because of someone else's mind that was in favor and still goes in favor. This component applied in the studies should also be kept and developed. But it is not my place to talk too much about it now, what I could only do as a representative and as a member of the Academic Community to say that time, Mr. Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, is that we use the potential of our academic community for what kind of economic social development we want this Croatia to have. We don't just import most of the food in supermarkets, we unfortunately import most of the ideas, most of the thinking, most of how we should behave and what we should do is what others think is good for us. And now it's time for our esteemed colleagues and colleagues to start thinking what's good for us. Therefore, the state should be a key asset, a key instrument in finding it. And I would, if I may say so at the end of this, not a few dozen million kunas will be a great expense to the state if it provides them for several groups of researchers multidisciplinaryly drawn up to explore such potentials and such opportunities in Croatia. Finally, Mr. Minister, something that is pro-domo sua, so things we do as a party together with other representatives of national minorities, mountainous areas, islands and areas where members of national minorities live, especially those that go through three ministries, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy should not only be suspended, but should not be reduced. These people are in need, and at the same time they are able to preserve jobs, work activities in rebuilding the infrastructure in municipalities, in encouraging the OPGs and at the same time in encouraging crafts. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196393	Thank you, too. Let's move on Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash will speak on behalf of the GLASs Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196394	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers and colleagues, we at the GLAS Club are very pleased that these proposals of the government have come to debate and they give hope to many entrepreneurs and craftsmen in Croatia that they will not necessarily have to put the key in the lock because the situation is not quite as irrevocable. We're primarily glad to listen to each other, this is a time when we can't shake hands, we can't hug, we can't sit close to each other, but what we really should be able to do, which is listen to each other more than we normally do. And not only listen but also respect advice and opinions and criticisms, especially if they are numerous and come from different sources. That was the situation, for example. with the issue of taxes and contributions, and we from GLAS as well as most of the opposition, but also economic experts as well as associations of craftsmen and entrepreneurs have warned that without write down the obligation as long as the labour ban or significant fall of activity due to the crown, all other measures do not make sense. We also understand that the measures that will have to be taken are extremely expensive and will mean a great burden on the state budget, possible work, deficits and borrowings, but frankly it is not that we have any choice. 100 thousand people on the stock market and a ruined economy wouldn't cost us anything less than these measures to make this epidemic stop at some point, and then we need to be ready at a low start to relaunch economic activity in full scale. We're able to make up for at least a part of what we're losing right now in this special regime. It is shown once again, and I think that this should be particularly emphasized how important it is for us to be an EU member state. The virus knows no borders, no states, no epidemic we would have had anyway, but if we weren't members, it would be harder for us to get funds from funds that are just forming at Union level to overcome this crown crisis. Following the initial short disagreement and a slightly slow start, the EU is currently seriously working on collecting and sharing money to ease the crisis. The sharing of burdens, solidarity among the members and the assistance of those most affected are the ideas of European unification and the prerequisite for preserving the space of prosperity and progress that we are working hard to build in Europe. It is important that the message is also heard that the results of the programme are seen, and I am sure that they are seen in Croatia and that the entire set of measures proposed by the Government would not be possible without the EU's support. However, we now see that we must be prepared to review the measures that are being introduced and their effects. This is a new situation for all of us, and there are no perfect answers to every question. It's not the subject of today's law, but I'm taking the opportunity to warn the government that some things should be considered. One such thing is the provision that measures cannot be applied to those who have open debts to the state. These are not incentive measures for excellent under normal circumstances, so that an understandable condition is the lack of debt. These are survival measures. Preferably preserving jobs. Well, there seems to be no reason for us to set such high conditions. What's the job, we save the companies, we save the jobs, no one needs to write off the debts, and when the crown passes, they need to be charged. Besides, if these companies fail, we won't be able to pay back our debts anyway. Another condition that seems bad to us from practice in recent weeks is that directors and procurators of companies do not have the right to pay minimum wages. Similar to tax debt, this is not a situation for us to save companies from mismanagement of their management but from disturbed circumstances that they could not possibly influence. There is no reason for those who care for workers who also live on the business of the company and are now without income to deny the right to pay minimum wages. There are a number of family companies in Croatia, for example. both husband and wife lost any income because they are employed in certain positions. Another topic I'd like to warn you about, and I think it's very important. It's about civil society and culture organisations. Restriction of expenditure and use of funds means that all programmes for culture and associations, and even those dealing with social programmes and without which the social care system cannot function, for example. A shelter for women victims of violence to be considered a cost that is not necessary. If so, we must be very careful and not let such a thing happen. I have already warned this very high home last week about the problem of psychosocial assistance for children and young people who have fully stopped in their programs, which can have unspeakable consequences for the most vulnerable members of our society. Likewise, I know that we are not Germany, but in the context of our own possibilities we should consider ways to help culture in the Republic of Croatia. What is certain is that we must not allow programs in culture that are fully and partially implemented not to be paid. The more public institutions are owned by the state and local self-government units, the more they are now among the biggest debtors to independent artists and prominent workers, and now threatens the danger of these debts being confused by the crown. According to the information that's come to us, e.g. HNK Split owes about 3 million kuna to external associates. Our culture is on the ice, and we need to take it more seriously and more seriously. One of the topics to be mentioned and to be highlighted, these are our famous parafiscal imposes. We try to get rid of these parafiscals every time, we have different programs, different projects, and then we boast that we've abolished them or solved them, but we haven't done it. I'm going to mention a few parafiscal duties, and I think you really need to think about it. For example, it is paid to verify the documentation on the reserve of mineral raw materials, paid to confirm the consent and registration of the type of tractor vehicle, paid to carry out the examination procedure and the approval of the forest economic base. After the earthquake in the City of Zagreb we have had and we still have one very interesting display which means when administration and has parafiscal burdens and does not want to adapt to new circumstances. In buildings regardless of whether the damage was from the earthquake or not, in that great fear people often shut down the gas and now that gas should be released because we see that the cold weather and the building was fine and nothing was damaged by the earthquake, Plinara said okay we can let it go, but you have to pay 3.000,00 kn. The question is what else is paid that $3.000,00 for gas release, and then, of course, under the influence of the public, they reduced it a little bit. But let me just tell you a story that will show what parafiscal intrusions even mean and what it means when people are not ready to adapt to new circumstances. One building on Folenegovic's, the gas is closed. The building wasn't the least damaged in this earthquake was it built after '65. and high-quality, no cracks on, on, on, I don't know, paint. In that building, a family gave up an apartment that does not use a family that is unusable to its property, which is frozen there. And they go to Plinar and Plinar says okay, but in order for you to release the gas, you have to have a statistical confirmation that the building is usable. They go to where statistical certificates are issued, statisticians in the City of Zagreb from Sunday, Monday, are no longer working because it was indeed unorganised and the building in Folnegovic still has no gas. So it just shows in the context of the parafiscal burdens that we love to talk about, it shows how it works in nature in one of the circumstances for which no one could have in the wildest dream predicted that at the same time the City of Zagreb would happen and the Coronavirus and then the earthquake. But I would've used these last few minutes. What we need to think about right now, we need to think about the future. We all have to wonder together whether we'll be able to learn some lessons about the future from this crisis. I'm not talking about the simple ones, for example. That we've already mastered, we all wash our hands. I'm talking about lessons about what kind of economy we want. What's important to us is what we need to invest in. This situation has once again shown us how dangerous it is to be overly dependent on imports while their own capacities remain unused. She also showed that it is dangerous to the extent that the Republic of Croatia depends on very sensitive, unpredictable and fragile activities such as tourism. The question is, will we finally get the strength to invest more in research and development in both state and science systems, but also in serious companies in this country. Storage, sales, distribution, tourism, hospitality. These are all important activities, but not enough. The Republic of Croatia is a small country, but this does not mean that we do not have the strength and that, and we should not see those who, through research and development, create strong foundations for a long-term sustainable economy that creates serious added value. We have to wonder if we're finally going to find the strength to get involved, not just to get involved, but to actually implement the green economy. Not only because it is green, I think that the need to preserve the environment at this point does not need to be further explained at all, but the green economy is also a modern economy, one that can take a serious step towards tomorrow, on which we can base long-term stability, quality jobs for highly qualified people and the lasting possibility of exporting our products to the most demanding markets. Will we finally get the strength to support and develop domestic food producers, from small OPGs to the largest companies? This situation has shown us how important it is in our daily lives, but also in our long-term development and stability. The domestic food industry should be developed not because we want to barricade ourselves into our four walls but because it is completely irrational and unreasonable that we do not use our own resources completely and to the last millimeter. This coronary virus, and in the City of Zagreb, the coronaryvirus and the earthquake, should be a lesson for the future. We should be getting ready for the day after, the day after that we want to get there as soon as possible. And let's never forget this situation that no one in their wildest dreams could have predicted it would be, but from this situation we need to learn something else. To learn that the structures of public administration, the structures of the government must have the ability to adapt. The ability to adapt means that you can react immediately to the changes that are, that you can react immediately to the voice of the public, to the voice of reason, to the voice of the profession. So we also experience this set of measures that I called April 1.0. I, sort of, seem to me, to us at the GLAS Club it seems that soon a set of measures should come in April 2.0. We simply must not allow the day after Croatia to be burned. What is important to us and at this point we support this set of measures that the Government provides jobs and we need to ensure that we have great energy, but we need both energy and effort and for some other things that will give us the opportunity to be a developed democratic state, that democracy is extremely important to us and that we don't somehow get through the laws to get through some things that, when we start from this crown, we normally work, which we're going to have a hard time getting rid of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196395	Thank you, too. We're going back to the law package and they're going to talk about a package of laws that's on the agenda of Mr. Hrg in front of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196397	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Prime Minister. When we talk about what the government has done in these months, how we are shaken by this crisis, and even the earthquake, then we can say that she was very awake, that she was reacting spotlessly, that she reacted quickly and that she was making moves that were possible at that time in the frames that we have. The HDS, HSLS and HDSSB club supports all the proposals of these laws, we support absolutely the efforts of people who control the process and all processes of this crisis and we want them to succeed in this way as they do now, of course headed by the Prime Minister as Prime Minister. Turning towards people, towards employees and entrepreneurs, there is no real alternative, and when we talk about the means that are being released and which country is returning, so to its citizens and their entrepreneurs who have paid the same funds and will again be paying after the crisis, then we have to talk about the gross amount since it is not only net 4,000.00 but it is about the contributions that go to it, which is somewhere 5,825.00 kn. Finally, European policy is also focused, according to the latest information, on the preservation of jobs and the rescue of entrepreneurs. What's often mentioned in this time of crisis is what we often return to, and we always go back to these situations to the beginning of everything, we go back to the country, we go back to food production, we go back to the most valuable production without which no one could live without food, there is no life, then I think about it, and I'm thinking here saying something that doesn't make sense to me before, and now it's even less logical to me. So, in times like this, when we do work faster, when we're more efficient in some way, when we're all still as prone as we can to get things done faster, we have to try to find a solution, think about whether the process when VAT is reduced to catering services in restaurants and hotels, is it not possible to introduce that parallel process to condition these same restaurants that they must have at least 60% of Croatian food products on their menu. If you're already giving some relief, then let it end up back in the Republic of Croatia, let it go back to production. I know that we are defined as a state for the capitalist system, we know about freedom of trade, but the same thing needs to be considered, and it is all about what is happening now and the sale of agricultural products and the problem of markets that I believe will also be resolved in the coming days, there will be a solution, whether it is really not possible for the malls to commit, limit, determine that they must have a certain percentage of Croatian products on their shelves. I think this is the time when all these things will come back to the table when every country protects itself in principle its interests, its borders, its citizens, and it will have to start talking more seriously about what's coming to us tomorrow. We today have the situation that the President of the European Commission tells us that the EUR 100 billion money in EU countries is spent on what is most needed, primarily on preserving jobs and economies, of course and on health, it comes first, regardless of the purpose. All right? I think we have to look at it that way, but we also have to watch what's waiting for us when this crisis is over. How do we start the economy? Without public investment with public money, it will be very difficult and it will have to be very careful what projects they are willing to give up in order to move behind it in order to create a new value, so that people can earn their full pay when conditions are created. Maybe this is the time to speed up the process and public procurement procedures. A time when countries are still so closed in their own frameworks, perhaps this is an opportunity for more of our employers to get jobs in public procurement, that they don't have so much competition outside with all due respect and open market and all, but realistically looking like I said this is the time when we look at everyone on our own for the most part. In the end, I believe that the government will also find new measures, that we will continue in this direction, that it will well control the process and I believe that it will be more strategic and long-term thinking and that we will have some directions very quickly, that after the crisis, how to get out, how to go beyond that. In any case, from this pay phone one must constantly speak the same thing, call for the greatest possible commonality, the greatest possible support for those who face this crisis day to day and point out and warn about what is most important, but always to be on behalf of people living in the Republic. With these messages, I repeat, our club will support these bill proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196398	Thank you, too. Now Mr. Marin Schibola will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196399	Thank you. In these challenging times, all political tools should be acted decisively and used to preserve the economy. Before this crisis, the Republic of Croatia had major economic problems. Today we can outwit whether GDP has grown by 1%, 2% or 2.9%, however, the indication that Croatian citizens have been dissatisfied with each step through the event that many young people have sought their future in some other EU Member States. At a meeting held in the Banski Dvori, I advocated facilitating the budgetary disciplines of certain master criteria, and today I have had just one such proposal, so you no longer see so much pre- budget discipline, I think that's good, that's the only way to overcome this crisis. The other EU member states are also on their way, and it is a good thing Croatia is on its way. Why am I saying that? Because this period requires much more state spending. So without greater state spending, it's impossible to service the economy at this point. What has disappointed me is that this solidarity has not been seen, so there is no EU unity, because it is often promoted in public by this community, solidarity, as Member States support each other. However, we see that the EU has also divided. The leaders of 9 member states, including Italy and France, recently requested in a letter to the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, to enable the issue of joint bonds to be financed, to support health systems in the fight against the crown of the virus and to assist economies. However, Germany, the Netherlands, Finland and Austria opposed such a model, so that there is division here and in this economic sense again. There has been a division between the northern Member States and the southern Member States that are more in charge by nature, but also now and on this issue there is a huge division. It is not only about these coronas of bonds there has also been transit, a difficult transit and a difficult number of other passing points. Croatia should now take advantage of its non-euro area member advantage, so it is all a paradigm in the eyes of observers. The prime minister said it was a lack and you see more of the plan, I see it as an advantage that Croatia is not a member of the European zone, the euro zone. For what reason? For this reason, the CNB can now intervene more strongly in the economy in a way that ex niils, i.e. The primary show where the central bank will create money and forward it to citizens and SMEs. That's exactly what Trump did, and that's where some other countries are headed, and I really think we should use monetary tools when we're not already using them during the normal period, so at least in this crisis, let's use the monetary tools that we have. So we have our central bank, we have this privilege, because other euro area Member States have given up this monetary sovereignty and have to ask everyone about the European Commission, they have to consult with the European Central Bank. We have this one privilege that we don't have to. So here's the appeal for Governor Vujčić to go that way and help businesses and the economy in that way. Fear of inflation should not be because money can be put into circulation regulatedly, so there is control over that inflation. Inflation from 2% to 3% is a positive inflation it will not have any negative effects on the economy. Private banks can also create inflation, so private banks can also create inflation through multiple credits and deposits through credit expansion. Therefore, the concern that the central bank will, because it has the possibility of money creation, create inflation is simply a missed argument because private banks always have the opportunity to create inflation through credit increases, credit expansion and credit emissions. I also once asked you which banking institutions Croatia is most obliged to. And unfortunately, I didn't get an answer to that question, and I'm very interested in that. So I'm very interested in what banks Croatia serves. Because we know that the one who gives the money is above the one who takes the money. If we don't know what Croatian believers mean by name and last name that we know which banking institutions are the biggest creditors of foreign public debt. That's what I'm interested in, and you don't want to give me an answer to that question. I want to know who Croatia serves, I want to know who has the greatest influence on our economy. Also, here you have chosen that way of borrowing. I don't think that's a wise way to go. You're talking about who's gonna be in charge of you more, so that's where these international financial institutions are normally always offered. There we have an international monetary fund that is known to always offer assistance in these circumstances, but many countries have negative experience with the international monetary fund because at the moment when money is due, it will give money, but then ask for different other measures from the state to be implemented, and these are often measures, and these are often measures to raise taxes, impose, layoffs in the public sector, deregulation, means maximum deregulation where the state will not play any role. These are the measures that these international financial institutions are looking for, and I think that we should not afford the situation of being valued by these financial institutions more than we are today. The conflict between the public and the real sector has been noticeable lately. That's not good, there's no need for that because both sectors are essential. The state has to help entrepreneurs, which it has done in part, but it must not go to public sector wage cuts because public sector wages are small anyway, we had a lot of nurses' protests before this crisis, means healthcare professionals, police protests, teachers' protests, the government has done something for teachers, and now imagine that they have to re-cut what they've grown. So, funds should be sought elsewhere, the central bank is one of these possible solutions, but I'm not saying that there is no need to reform local self-government, it should certainly be done, however, HDZ and SDP have been avoiding this single reform of local self-government for years, although the profession clearly and unequivocally says it is necessary to do so. And now that you have a situation, for example. Here is the coronaryvirus, listening to the waist, the media is completely focused on what the waist is saying, what's constantly in the public space is just a coronary virus, but when the profession says you need to reform the local self-government, you know that the ministers need to do it, and then the waist doesn't listen, then these particular political interests of the two biggest parties that hitch that kind of thing. So if you're even thinking about cutting in the public sector, don't go that way but reform the local self-government. And finally, there have been a lot of these demagogue, populist measures, and I believe that one measure that is not demagogue and populist is a measure where political parties would participate in this crisis in such a way that 50% of the money coming from the state budget for political parties is invested in another segments that would now contribute to this crisis. So we know that HDZ and SDP are getting millions and millions from the state budget, and now all these huge millions are going to give up one piece and so let small entrepreneurs and medium-sized enterprises help them. When the nurses protested in front of the government, you didn't clap their windows there, Minister. And today, when we see how big the role of these healthcare professionals is, you're clapping from their windows today. And why didn't you go out and say hello when there were thousands of nurses in front of Mark's square? Then you didn't have hearing and understanding, and today, like everybody else, here we go. When we need them, then you from the government get out there, too, clap. So they're not given the problem of support, it's great that people have gathered and they've given them support, but they need to be supported by those healthcare professionals when they need them. When it comes to defending some of their rights. When they need higher wages, they need to be solid with them, not when these healthcare professionals are needed. You need to come up with a model to tax the business banks. To them, the system has so far favored the most, and it seems that they will benefit most from this crisis in the future because many will be forced after this crisis to become in charge of these business banks. They have in one part agreed to some measures, meaning moratories, etc., but this is not enough, so they must also contribute financially to this crisis because in fact Croatia is for them El Dorado. They're pulling billions out of our system, sending billions to their mothers' banks and not serving the economy the way they should. So they're still acting, breaking the law in the Republic of Croatia through the credit show of these Swiss francs, which was, so we have these different illegal ones too, the creditors who paraded in Croatia, should be punished by these banks. So you just have to punish them and get the money out of them, if they've damaged the citizens and they've robbed the people. So there should be no compromise against them, for those who take every opportunity to take the last kuna out of their pockets. They're the ones who have the most and actually have to give society the most, too. It's simply the direction we should be taking because the decomposition of society in the world, means that the wealthier and the poor so much that they can't meet some elemental needs is huge, so this decomposition is huge and I have the impression that after this corporal crisis, the biggest blow on small and medium-sized enterprises, on ordinary workers, and those who have huge capital, which are these large corporations, financial institutions, different speculators, they're going to make money on this crisis, and if they don't make money, they're going to take advantage of this crisis to expand their impact, they're going to take advantage of this crisis to spread and buy what they can buy when the stock prices are falling on the stock markets, so they're going to take advantage of that opportunity they're currently having. The media have a very large role to play and I appeal that no climate of fear is created because in this climate of fear, while people are simply afraid to take all kinds of measures and I have the impression that this fear of people is also being used, and that's why this Law of Electronic Communications has come to us where every man would be followed. Under normal circumstances, there's no way that society would accept it, no citizen would accept it, but I can see that it's pushing, I can see that it's trying. And so I appeal to the media not to create fear, let them report positive news, and let the people not be afraid, let them be careful, let them think critically, and let them not believe everything that is served them because we will ultimately have one tyranny and absolute control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196400	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr Emil Daus who will speak on behalf of the IDS-PGS-RI Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196401	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the Government, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. A tiny virus, as we say down there, changes the world, changes the way people live, their needs, priorities, the economic picture, and things are likely to slowly start changing and the geopolitical map of the world. And it doesn't matter if we are in Spain, whether we are in Italy, in Croatia, whether we are from Zagorje, Dalmatia, Slavonia from Istria, and even less whether we are in HDZ, SDP, IDS or any other party. That virus chooses how he, whom he will, and the health profession still doesn't know the right answer how to stop him. But that's why everything the profession knows is doing very well, and it should be commended once more and thanked to them, thanking the health care workers, the police, the fire department, but also the store workers, the suppliers, and all those who sacrifice themselves these days. A good part of what the government has proposed in this second package of measures should also be welcomed. This is the result of listening, respecting, proposing a profession, economics for those policy options that are responsible and aware of the situation and which have tried to help their proposals. That's why we're glad the government took the measures we talked about two weeks ago. We need to do everything to avoid mass layoffs and we believe these measures are going in that direction. Once again, we note that the IDS in this crisis will act politically responsible and will make its contribution as it has done so far, and not only by supporting these measures, but also by proposing how it makes it even more effective together. We see that the need to help agriculture has been recognised, and we welcome that, but we think that we needed a little more courage and determination. Friends and colleagues with drinking water are food that will lead to wars in the future. Without everything else, it can survive, without water or food. Our country has everything it takes to meet its water and food needs, even more. Now it's time to take that chance. So today, when you still don't know how long this is going to take, your own food production is the key question of how to survive the crisis we're in. The proposed measures are welcome, but they are temporary. It is necessary to be bold and to bring in those long-term ones. This is the moment when sound state decisions are made, and one of them is an urgent, productive and clear agrarian reform that will allow anyone who wants to produce food to have a secure land for this production, that there is a guaranteed purchase of agricultural products that gives safety to the agricultural producer and to help those shops that sell Croatian agricultural products and products from Croatian producers. This addresses the issue of food insurance to our citizens, the issue of employment of domestic labour at moments of unemployment, the production of controlled high-quality natural farmed food on previously uncontaminated surfaces, the operation of hundreds of thousands of hectares of unprocessed and abandoned agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia, both state and private, and the establishment of agricultural production as basic primary production that binds all other activities. If specific measures can be taken for the war against coronary viruses that are not quite acceptable under normal circumstances, if special tax measures can be taken which are not quite acceptable under normal circumstances, if citizens are seriously considered to follow through mobile devices which is unacceptable and in exceptional circumstances, then special measures for the war against unemployment and potential poverty and hunger may be taken. Given what is currently happening in the world, and given the major climate change in recent years and everything that will result, we must create independence for the import of food into the Republic of Croatia. Now we have a great opportunity. We believe that in a situation like this, it is not important for the virus to see an individual's world view, nor should it be important to us now if we want to defeat him and the ever-increasing major economic crisis that will follow. So we appeal to the government to continue listening to everyone and to add what is good and realistic to these measures. We're stronger together, and we want to help. We also expect that once these measures are adopted, we will be ready again and soon respond where necessary because the rapid changes in the rules of the virus must be rapid and state reactions, especially towards the economy and socially sensitive groups of society. From week to week, it will be necessary to adapt to circumstances and to take new measures and finally implement those measures that have been avoided for years such as the abolition of parafiscal duties. One thing we must stress, which is that it is the right time to finally understand what we have been warning for years how vulnerable tourism as an economic sector is and how dependent on a number of external factors that we can't even influence? We have no doubt that our valuable tourist workers will do everything possible to bring the situation back to normal after the end of this pandemic, but at a broader, strategic level as a state, we must finally become aware that tourism has its limitations and potential risks, one of which we are witnessing right now. This must be an incentive for us to seriously consider the future strong strengthening of other sectors of our economy and to share the risks. What's interesting, on the other hand, in this whole ungrateful situation, is that within a few days, you can make applications for issuing passes, e.g. and put into office even though they say today there are a lot of problems, that they are stifled relationships, but, so it can still increase the efficiency and efficiency of the public administration. And this should become a rule for all services in the public sector, not just now in exceptional circumstances, so that we finally end up with these notes, strange working hours of receiving parties on counters, etc. We have no idea how much such approach would help, not just the economy, but society in general. There's one more thing that's interesting, and it's commendable. It will allow entrepreneurs to pay VAT when billing, not after its publication. So you can, and it should actually become a rule when this monster passes and everything is slowly stabilized. So our craftsmen, entrepreneurs don't have to start calling their debtors at the end of the day, but to take over, in a way, the role of payment control because it has an interest to charge VAT and itself. Now, that would help the economy a lot. To welcome it, of course, and other measures, but I think it may be necessary to think about how to help those who have been fired these days in the last 15th, 20th days, to get back to work, whether or not to recognise their employers’ subsidies if they are re-employed, certainly one topic to think about, because especially in tourism and somewhere where there has been a panic, it has happened in the last 15 days that a lot of people have lost their jobs, and perhaps in this way they could save jobs through these measures. It will certainly be necessary to find a solution for many other people who, by your dedicated work so far, have entrusted our society, we have heard on many occasions, like cultural workers. Let us not forget employees in amateur sports clubs, I stress, amateur sports clubs, especially educators who work with children and many others whom we must not now also forget. But first of all, we must not forget those who are now on the first line of defense, and we should even reward them further. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the crises unfortunately have many negative consequences, but they also have something positive. They're one other way. In our case, the chance that after 30 years of wandering, when more, when less, but 30 years of wandering, we finally go in one right direction. If the government remains responsible, continue to listen to the profession in the field of health, but also to more and more professions in the area of economy, economy, if, on the other hand, opposition representatives will make their own quality discussions and suggestions, and the government will respect their real and acceptable proposals, if we are all together in one way, I stress, all together in one way, there is hope for this country and its citizens. Now we really have a big chance, let's not miss it. The IDS Club will, of course, support the proposed measures, noting that we expect even more concrete measures as quickly as possible, especially in the agriculture sector, namely our own domestic food production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196402	Thank you, too. Now, Mr. Branko Bacic will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196403	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I would like to make it clear that we will support these measures that the Government has sent to the Croatian Parliament, both these three laws that come from the financial part and those relating to the tourist part and the law amending the Agricultural Land Act, where certain measures will also be introduced that should respond to the crisis in Croatia under the pandemic in the world and Croatia. We also claim that Croatia, but also the world, is faced with the biggest crisis, according to some after II. svt. war, many say that the biggest crisis since the economic crisis in 1929, and given the number of countries that this crisis has covered, and not only, it has become a threat to the lives of all citizens, but with its impact on the economy, it may be the biggest crisis ever in the history of the world. So as counterpart Daus said earlier, a small virus has changed the way of life in the world, all the achievements of the 21st century are almost forgotten. We return to one life that we thought was behind us long ago, and practically with all the medicine, with all the treatments being made, since we still haven't found how and how to respond to this challenge, we return to therapy, I would say, in the 19th century, without saying that quarantine, isolation was still Dubrovnik Republic on July 27th, 1387, introduced by building infirmarys on the eastern entrance to the city in the area of Ploč. So with everything we've achieved in life and in the history of the world, I'd say it's still not enough that we can respond effectively and in a quick way to this great challenge that this coronary virus has set before us. I said the way of life is changing, all of a sudden those topics that we were concerned with the problem of terrorism, the Middle East, it's practically gone, it's gone from the sight of our interests, we've changed the way of life there's no sport, there's no culture we've simply changed our lives, and so the responsibility today is, first of all, when we talk about Croatia and the government of the Republic to find ways to protect what's most important to us right now, and that's the right to life and the right to health. By the constitution of the Republic of Croatia, when we talk about human rights and freedoms, it's an art. 21. that is fundamental human right, right to life, and art. 69. The constitution says that the right to a healthy life is one of the most important rights. Therefore, it is important that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as a state, put ourselves in line with this challenge. I often hear here from some fellow MPs statements, attitudes that we've been late with measures to combat this disease. And I would remind myself then by knowing everything that has been done in the past time that already on 9 January in the Government's Office, a certain team that will monitor the situation in China, knowing how much the Chinese economy, how much everyone is connected to the Chinese economy and China have already started their first activities, to the extent that we are 24. January introduced special measures at airports and seaports to monitor whether there are indications of the arrival of the corona virus itself in Croatia. Very quickly, a crisis and civilian headquarters was formed, before the health ministry headquarters had already launched a number of measures so it was almost illusory when it was said that the government of the Republic of Croatia was late with measures. And whether we were late with the measures or not, I was preparing for this debate trying to determine some of the information that speaks about the extent to which Croatia had rightly set up an epidemic of the coronary virus. So in that sense, I would like to say that if we take as the reference day of February 25th of this year when the first one was registered in Croatia then there were, for example, 229 and 6 dead in Italy, in France 12 were killed and 1 died, at the level of Europe only 7 died 25. In Germany, 16 patients, in Spain 3, Sweden 1, UK 9, and in the United States, on 25 February. On today, however, the data are probably even worse, but on this day in Croatia we have 1011 patients and 7 dead, in Italy, which had 229, 116,000 and 14,000 died, in France, which had 12 today, and 4,500 died, in Germany today there were 85,000 and 1,177 dead, Spain had that day when Croatia 1 had 3 patients, today there are Spain 113,000 and 10,000 dead, so I'm not talking about UK where 34,000 died and 3,000 died today, or the United States, which is the world's most developed economy that had the world's largest economy that had 53, and today there's a record of 240,000 dead and nearly 6,000 dead. So what do I want to show these? This is what I want to show that Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have committed very quickly to suppressing this pandemic or epidemic any way you want to say that the work of the Staff, through the work of the Government, has produced excellent results from the Ministry of Health. We heard last night when HZJZ Director said that at this point in the world that only Japan, according to its assessment, is better equipped with this crisis than Croatia is, above all, because we decided it was good that in times of crisis, executive power, based on its decisions on the profession, to take charge of the epidemic and the crisis, was a crucial decision. We have therefore rightly decided here in the Croatian Parliament that the activation of art is not necessary at the government level. 17. The Constitution of the If they were forced by a two-thirds majority to make those decisions that restrict human rights and freedoms in Croatia, but are based on the laws that this Parliament has adopted in this or past independent term in accordance with Article. 16 certain laws that are activated in the event of such accidents. So I would like, above all, to highlight the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases and the Civil Protection System Act, and these are two basic documents on which the Minister of Health and the Civil Protection Staff are also very successful in countering the crisis. I wish our friends were from the opposition when they transferred us for which reason and for what reason we didn't activate the decision from the article. 17. If the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia finally told us what the decision should look like, to what extent that decision should be detailed, would we come into a situation where in the Croatian Parliament, we here every decision that means limiting the work of shops, markets, bans on gathering, quarantines, etc. any place in Croatia and any location in Croatia should bring 2/3 of the majority here in the Croatian Parliament. I think it would lead to absurdities on the one hand, and on the other hand it would mean blockade, blockade of even life in Croatia. We are therefore advocates that the laws we are going to bring here in the Croatian Parliament are not a state of emergency but that we are working through the work of the assembly, the work of the president of the state, the government, the judicial authorities, the Constitutional Court, the units of local self-government to prescribe measures, to adopt measures based on the law that I repeat this assembly. We do all of this for reasons we hold that protecting health and protecting lives is the first decision of what we have to do. But today, when we have proved successful in the defence and in the fight against the crown of the virus we enter into another package of measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed to the Croatian Parliament and that March package and I now hold this April package that they have been affected, that they have been created as a continuity in the work of the Government and in monitoring the situation in the Croatian economy. One and the other package of measures, when agreed, is expected to be based on the implementation of these measures within 3 months, of about 9% of GDP in Croatia. So, everything we will prescribe through these measures and what we will intervene towards Croatian employers, first of all, in preserving the job of each employee in the Republic of Croatia, we set out around 9% of GDP. As far as I have information, perhaps later the vice-president and finance minister will say, Austria is the only one among all the countries in Europe that sets out more than the size of its GDP from Croatia. Many countries that are mentioned here as responding well and in quality are not even approximately at the level of detachment per GDP compared to Croatia. Therefore, all these measures that the Prime Minister has explained this morning, and later, I have no need to repeat the Minister of Finance, and when it comes to detachment by an employee of 5,825 kuna, the right of fellow Schucker to say this morning that we are talking about 4,000, 4,000 are going to the employee, but the state is obliged to allocate more than 1,825 kuna for the purpose of paying contributions in Croatia and the release of all taxes and contributions for small entrepreneurs up to 7,5 million kuna or proportional release if the fall of revenue is more than 50 kuna for large entrepreneurs and the payment of taxes, etc., VAT at the charge of these are measures that I think are quite well designed and affected. But what we must, which we must take special care of, is to establish this solidarity in Croatian society. And when it comes to the real sector and the public sector. And if we find that measure then I think, and we are on the best track, and these measures and everything announced that will take place with the unions and the social partners in the next month, I am convinced that as we are successful in suppressing the coronal virus in the fight against the crown of the virus that we will show the same success in the fight for every job and fight for every entrepreneur in Croatia. I also hold this because these measures that are now being implemented in Croatia and that will take effect after the Croatian Parliament adopts them I am confident and I am sure that we will be able to address new challenges with a better starting position once this crisis has stopped. Therefore, what I can say is that I expect clearly that all participants and government and social partners and units of local self-government and regional self-government and they should not be forgotten in this crisis that they will make their full contribution so that we can deal with this crisis as successfully as possible. In this regard, we will support this measure in the HDZ Club of Representatives because we think that they are excellent and the right answer to the crisis that has come and which has affected not only Croatia but the whole world, and in this sense we will probably support these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196404	Thank you, too. Now it's the SDP's Club of Representatives, first Mr Bernardic will speak, and then Mr Lalovac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196405	Good afternoon, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, immediately at the beginning of listening to Mr. Bačić, I must confess that I am shocked. I remained shocked because this information that you said was neither us nor the Croatian public knew. That you're still nine. January had a preparatory meeting in the government and that the first measures were taken at airports and in the Adriatic ports on 24 January. My question is, why didn't Croatia introduce rigorous measures when we only had one patient? And my question is if you knew for three months about the arrival of an outbreak of the coronary virus in Croatia why only today, so at 4:00 p.m. For a month, are we discussing intervention measures to help the Croatian economy? These are questions that you will have to answer, which you will have to answer in the coming days, but I must admit that I am not only shocked but I am expressing great concern about what we have heard here from you in this way. But let's concentrate on that job that's waiting for us. First of all, let me direct one human, large, warm thank you to all our services that work tirelessly to stop the spread of this epidemic that has hit Croatia and the whole world. Thank you to doctors, thank the nurses, thank you to epidemiologists, thank all those who watch day and night and help our citizens and thank everyone who is involved in the fight against the coronary virus and who in these difficult times make life easier for us. The pharmacists, pharmacists, security guards, communal services, cops, firefighters, these are in this situation our true heroes, they give the best and most of themselves in this difficult situation for Croatia. We in the SDP warned a month and a half ago about the consequences this crisis could cause for both the economy and the citizens and after the World Health Organization declared a pandemic after it was confirmed by the decision and the Croatian Government, we came out with a set of more than 15 measures to help citizens and help the economy, on which our experts and our advices worked. Our measures were not then adopted by the government. And Vlad's first package of laws for numerous citizens and entrepreneurs proved insufficient. In the last two weeks, people have been running out of work, without income for their families, entrepreneurs and citizens, but today they still feel great uncertainty and great fear. And precisely because of half of the first government package and because the weather was leaking from day to day, and Croatia simply didn't have time to wait for the SDP Representatives' Club sent last week a package of 10 laws for the rescue of citizens and economies that we hold necessary to discuss at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, this package of laws has not been discussed yet, although we lose 1,000 jobs a day. Our package of laws is an invitation to action, to quick state intervention, to make decisions aimed at saving both the economy and jobs. After two weeks of agony that we could witness in Croatia where several thousand people were out of work, a second package of measures comes to the agenda. In principle, we can estimate that the government has listened to some of those proposals made by the public and entrepreneurs and trade unions and opposition leaders with the SDP, but it has referred them to them with a delay of at least 2 weeks, but better ever than never. The general assessment as well as the first package is like when all the laws that are being discussed today are actually given authority to individual ministers to decide arbitrarily and discreetly, to make decisions about when, who, and how much help that is simply not good. In other words, these laws transfer the council's powers to the government. Today I am not going to talk about those proposals that we have proposed that have been adopted, but I will try to concentrate on those proposals that we consider necessary to install into a set of solutions for citizens and businessmen. First, although the compensation for workers has increased to 4,000 kuna we continue to hold that at this point our proposal for a fee of up to 5,100 kuna would be much more appropriate. Second, after the great public pressure expressed, however, entrepreneurs are allowed to be released, not just a postponement of tax and salary contributions, and a profit tax advance, but we in the SDP must warn that the government has actually deviated from the basic criterion that the measure is applied equally to all entrepreneurs and craftsmen who will have a decline of more than 20%. Instead, the government retains only a postponement of payments for those who will have income up to, a drop in income of up to 50%, and is ready to fully write off taxes and contribute to those who will have a fall in revenue of more than 50%. What I warn of is that it can lead to the deliberate destruction of income by individual economic operators, which can result in reduced liquidity and loss of jobs. Thirdly, although you have respected our proposal that VAT be calculated at a fee i.e. after the realization of the crisis, we believe that this alone will not be enough to ensure liquidity for entrepreneurs. In fact, the economy is facing a complete collapse, there's a great ambience of mistrust, people are desperate, there's no payment among suppliers. Therefore, we call on the Government to lift all the parafiscal burdens, to restore trust in payments by example, to cut state payments towards suppliers for 7 days, and to set up a liquidity fund by which a simplified and rapid procedure would help the private sector in these most difficult times. Fourthly, the SDP expresses great concern that the government has not yet reached an agreement with business banks on the issue of new loans to help the private sector. We believe that funding only on the basis of new HABOR guarantee schemes and HAMAG BICRO simply won't be enough. Fifthly, it is already clear that this crisis will take a particularly long time to recover from the crisis. So we in the SDP consider it necessary to secure a moratorium on loans for a year. Simply to keep entrepreneurs normal with their business, and citizens normally with their lives, without fear and without uncertainty. The sixth, one of the sectors that will certainly be the most affected during this major crisis is the sector that brings us more than 20% of GDP, that is tourism. When it comes to tourism and assistance, the government has unfortunately offered absolutely nothing but petty technical, bureaucratic changes. I remind you that the SDP has also suggested that we insist that we abolish the obligation to pay the flat-rate tax for small tenants. Second, advances for artisan artisan artisans, the elimination of certain parafiscal burdens including the flat rate of tourist tax and the membership fee to the tourist community as long as the crisis with the coronary virus lasts. And again, the SDP will continue to insist on reducing VAT in catering and tourism to 5%. This is especially important today. Seven, we in the SDP must express regret that the government has not complied with our proposals to improve the position of special groups of workers such as the proposal to increase the basis for self-insulation compensation for workers to the amount of the average wage, these people have to live on something. Another proposal to allow one parent’s paid leave to take care of their children who are under 12 years of age during the duration of self - isolation or stay at home. The third increase in the amount of non-taxable payments simply so that employers who want to reward their people who are on the first line of defense from the crown of viruses such as merchants, pharmacists, drivers, logistics workers can simply give them an additional bonus on the salary. We think it's still necessary to do that. I would like to say that the SDP will continue to make a constructive contribution to the fight against the consequences of the crown crisis with the aim of easing the consequences of especially those of the most vulnerable citizens. In the SDP, we believe that due to this situation in Croatia, due to the outbreak of the Croatian Parliament's Coronary, the Croatian Parliament must simply continue to work uninterrupted, which means that we want meetings of the Croatian Parliament to be held in these changed circumstances from Monday to Friday, not just Wednesday to Friday, because the Croatian Parliament is the last line of defence of democracy. The representatives of the Croatian Parliament are chosen by citizens to be represented especially by those citizens most affected by this crisis, the most sensitive groups of society, they are their voice and we must allow them to hear their voice simply in Croatia, to be heard in the Croatian Parliament. And that's why we suggest that the advantage of putting the dots on the agenda has exactly the points that aim to mitigate the health and economic consequences of the coronary epidemic with the virus. We also suggest that the Croatian Parliament be continued next week because of the specific situation in our country or that there should be no rest due to Easter holidays, given the situation in which our country is located. Now I'm calling a colleague of Lalove's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196406	Thank you very much, but let me call him, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196407	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers and colleagues and several technical questions since there is a minister here to try to discuss it with us, or with your team, and answer these questions. We welcome that you moved to 30.6. However, the purely technical issue for all entrepreneurs is that the final calculation will take place, in most of them and most likely the difference in profit tax payments for 2019, so here is the purely technical question in that section whether this payment is also the result of the insolvency problem, whether the same payment for 2019 must be made in this arrangement or whether it will have to be paid. The second thing, is about renting business spaces, related to, especially natural and legal persons who now have in this part of the rent business space and who will have a rent of 0, so these spaces will not work and they will likely work on new rental contracts when the price will be at least 0 kuna simply so that the tax administration does not apply that Article 60. The income tax law, where it always says that the market price of rent should be, since today markets in these business areas, we appeal that at least in this period, while all these business spaces are closed, there is no tax on income or VAT when actually these business facilities do not actually work or business premises do not work. Furthermore, regarding all these measures that have been said here, I think it would be good to consider, over a certain period, all those companies that are going to use these measures to have them, however, are benefiting from the state's incentive to have a ban on profit payments. Because they'll probably get a profit in 2019, '18. and the previous year, however, this is now a liquid problem so that there will be no abuse, if the state gives them some incentives and this part, that there are no abuses on the other hand, so that there can be considered in any way that there is no cash.../incomprehensible/... as regards that part of the ban on payout. Still related to the use of EU funds, I see that yesterday it was announced that, that it would be flexible to use EU funds, I think that it is good, I don't know how much longer we are probably somewhere up to a billion euros if we were left to take advantage of the full envelope for 2011 to 2021, so this could only explain whether these funds, I see, are quite flexible in this way using these funds because these funds are important to withdraw and because of the reduced pressure on the course, I apologize. Furthermore, regarding the ERM II approach, I also see that this morning, the prime minister said it is a good measure that Croatia and even more strongly goes towards the exchange rate mechanism, although perhaps we are not meeting these conditions now and will find it difficult to meet the exchange rate mechanism II in the future, but it is important that it accepts us there that we can use the EU's access to the market and access to euro bonds, which will certainly ensure a certain foreign liquidity. I think it is not only an economic and political decision, and I think it would also be the European Commission to approach Croatia if we have already applied for the ERM II mechanism to allow us to access the market as soon as possible. It's certainly a few more questions, it's about the write-offs of these parts that won't be paid by the state, so the state pays contributions to those 4,000 kunas, but my question for all those write-offs that are going to contribute to what's going to happen to these people because we know when there's a pension write-off that one day, that these people wouldn't, in fact, be at risk for their pensions, that we might be thinking anyway, and that if there were any write-offs of that pension to actually be his, that it would count on him, too, that the write-off that was to be used for him when calculating his pension. Here, I thank you for these are certain technical questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196408	Thank you, too. There will now be views on this package of laws of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats, which is a violation of the Rules of Procedure forgive me. Mr. Bacic, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196409	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure because a colleague insinuates that I am not telling the truth when I set the date when the Government of the Republic of Croatia began measures to prevent the fight against the coronary virus. Well, I am, on the other hand, amazed at the information that the president of the main opposition party is not aware that on January 24, the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure has made a decision towards which all airports and seaports are being raised to a high level to prevent the possible entry of the sick. and infected with the coronary virus in Croatia. [[Intruder: Time.]] And it was the first, first decision of the government of the Republic of Croatia to meet all citizens It is not clear to me that it is not the president of the main opposition party, Mr Bernardic. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196410	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Mr Bernardic also injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196411	The Honorable Vice President was also injured in Article 238, so I was shocked by Mr Bačić's statement that the first meetings in the government were held on 9 January, if the first meetings were held in the government on 9 January, my question was why it was waiting 3 months, first why it was waiting to take rigorous measures, and secondly why it was waiting to adopt these measures for entrepreneurs. Something stinks in there. You'll have to answer that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196412	Thank you very much. Okay, we didn't mention the articles, you said what you thought about each other and we're moving on. Now they will speak the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, the first to speak Mr. Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196413	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues allow me to state the position of the Association of Assembly Representatives of the HSS and Democrats on this proposal for measures by the ruling majority, respectively, of the HDZ. First of all, I would say that Mr Bernardić is absolutely right and has not received an answer to the question, so I will now give it to him, which is why nothing has been done, or why this measure is late. So as much as we can say hello and we must welcome these measures, the fact that they are late, especially late for those who have lost their jobs in the last two weeks. And why are they late even though it was possible to assume what was going to happen, Mr Bernardiæ is late because of the internal elections in HDZ, so the whole of Croatia knows, because of their choices, that the other people have been in the past two weeks because of the job and I propose to Mr Marić, who I follow all the time, who doesn't listen at all to what I'm saying, or what my predecessors have said, but the whole time on the line, to improve these measures and to support both the HSS and the opposition and everyone, but do something for the people for whom these measures have been delayed, these are people who have lost their jobs in the past two weeks. Here, so this is the first predisposition in principle to happen what the Prime Minister said in the morning, let's say some kind of unity that we all get together and I think that people would welcome it, that it would be in some way respect for the contributions of the opposition parties to this package of measures. What I would like to talk about, and what my colleague Miranda Mrsic will continue after me in the second part is that this crisis, that every crisis is an opportunity for a new start, and this crisis is an opportunity for a new start of the Croatian food industry, or Croatian food production. Especially since if it continues like this, we are all aware, we have continued this terrible situation for a few more months to come into the problems of the existence of society, not only the functioning of society as we have been used to in the last many decades, so what we remember, but also the existential problem of the survival of society, or the problem that we are not or we do not want to be aware of, and that is the problem of the diet of the population. Croatia is one of the few countries in the world that has enough natural predisposition to be able to feed under quotes themselves, or produce food far more than is necessary for the existing population of our country. However, measures for farmers, measures that should be aimed at ensuring the diet of the population not only these but also in the coming years, cannot be measures that will be taken through the month, two or three but immediately, now is the time of seed, now it is time to take measures to ensure that the state is doing its best not only to help farmers how much they need to sow, plant, whether there is a strategy to buy out the full production of Croatian farmers and thus ensure not only their survival, not just the diet of the population in months and years to come, which would not be dependent on food imports, because we do not know what will happen on markets or in countries from which we are now importing a good part of Croatian food needs. What if, if these countries decide to close the border and there will be no imports, then they should think about it and then the situation is an opportunity for a new beginning of Croatia, I repeat Croatian agriculture, Croatian processing or agricultural food industry, an opportunity for the recovery of Croatian villages, an opportunity for the return of people, a part of people to work in the primary sector, which is the opportunity for Croatia to stabilise, reset and in some way cancel out the last 30 years when unfortunately the Croatian government has favoured foreign importers, import lobbys, mega-trafficks and has ruined Croatian peasants, Croatian farmers and small food producers. I must commend that it is going to an intervention buy-in of milk, but this measure comes not too late as regards this crisis, but too late as it is 5 years too late as regards Croatian dairy. So we forgot that Croatian dairy was destroyed, that such a measure should have come 3 or 4 years ago in order to save the remains of the Croatian dairy industry, but what it is now is a good sign that Croatia can take care of its dairy industry, but I repeat, I should, in principle, appeal to the ruling to consider that with the following set of measures it is not to wait but to adopt and propose opposition parties, HSS proposals, Democrats proposals, SDP proposals and other parties among which there are very, very good, very good and constructive proposals, I have looked at all of the proposals of the parties I'm talking about, so that all of this is understood to go towards one, once soon, to move towards a new set of measures because it is important from today's news as it is, we have no way to see it yet. The situation is such that people have started to relax in the last few days, which I have the opportunity to see firsthand, that discipline has fallen slightly with the coming of a better time, and I fear that because of this lack of discipline, the situation in Croatia is not escalating until the end. There's something else I'd like to say about tourism, so we can cross tourism for this year. You don't need anything, you don't have to doubt at all that the tourist season will be crossed. Here when I talk about tourism workers about the tourism sector that will suffer this year not huge losses but will de facto remain on the zero question of how many domestic guests will be able to save the situation, foreign guests will not be because of us, but because of the general situation outside, and that foreign guests should come at this time probably go into quarantine. Therefore, it is necessary to help the tourism sector, tourism workers in every way possible and not to forget a whole series of secondary parts of the tourism sector, where they also include food producers, but where they include, for example, tourist guides that have been completely expelled, or that you have neglected, and with whom you are going towards de facto destruction, and one whole branch, let us call it, for example, employees closely related to tourism, which is certainly to be killed, or which we can already say that they have been killed this year. And now that I have invited Mr. Miranda Mrsic to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196414	Yes, thank you very much for helping me. Mr. Mrsic, you may proceed. That all of this, it goes on self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196415	Dear Mr. Vice President, life after the crown will not be the same, and what we miss out on today will have serious consequences in the near future. The measures we are discussing these two days are, in fact, measures to measure employers, but not to measure workers, and as the health epidemic of the coronary virus is an epidemic that is extremely dangerous in the economy as well, that epidemic cuts everyone around it. The epidemic has phase four, in phase one, you have no symptoms, and in phase two you have a fever and cough, you're in phase three you're on oxygen because you have pneumonia, you're on the respirator. Our economy is in phase three right now, and those who are locked up because of the social distance being made are actually on the respirator. But I'm afraid those who are now in phase three when they can no longer produce because there is no demand, because there is no raw material will also be in phase four. The government has gone too mildly with measures not realizing that it should be parallelly as aggressive in health to go to an epidemic, too, it was necessary to move aggressively in the economy. It was very late, it seems to me that Prime Minister Plenkovic acted like Trump to close his eyes, so the problem will go by itself. We are at war, and in war we need to make a very clear and very fast decision, in the war there is no decision in two steps so I am sorry that these measures that we have today were not before, two weeks ago and what is also seen in the government that in the government there is no person with sufficient authority, authority and power to make decisions and that is exactly what has been shown in these laws. Our mission from the opposition is to point to problems and offer some new, new things because maybe we see something different from what the government sees. It's a good thing we gave the workers 4,000 kuna, but as I said, this government is more on the hands of employers than workers, it would be smarter, more efficient and better if we gave these 4,000 kunas directly to workers on their current accounts, not employers. And while the government addressed the issue of subsidising salaries to workers, it did not resolve their working-law status while they were at home. Instead of sending workers to wait, employers are taking their annual vacations and therefore not all workers in Croatia are in the same position, primarily the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, or Minister Aladrovic, is responsible. As planned, the State should write off taxes and contributions, for these 4,000 should pay itself, but it should also consider that for those large companies to which we will write off taxes, contributions and all that is now in these measures, it is considered that for these funds, the Government or the State should not enter into co-ownership or property in large and larger ones. When the crisis is over then those shares can be sold and then the state returns what it has invested. On Monday, we will discuss agriculture, and today we should decide that the stock reserves take over and buy all surpluses without fences because that way we should be able and should save the agricultural production itself. If this crisis doesn't get us to review the defense list now, I don't know what it's going to do. This government has taken over, and I warn several billion kuna commitments to the HVO, and all these vote purchases are now coming up at the worst of times, such a wounded economy will now pay the HDZ election victory. Naturally, we also need budget rebalancing, there is Minister Maric, but not rebalancing because of the rebalancing but to face the crisis and that it is very clear that we have to pump money into the economy because it is oxygen and the blood of the economic life of Croatia. Our public debt will increase, so what, if we kill spending, it'll take us years to recover. Politics should be spent instead of saving for key activities during an epidemic such as health care, police, civil protection and other key services. Through collective bargaining, extras of 50 to 100% should be agreed on in terms of higher burdens and salary supplements compared to the basis during the duration of the epidemic. Workers who, during an epidemic of the situation, cannot go to work should have the same status and rights as those who have lost their jobs and receive compensation. In order to strengthen the liquidity of state-owned enterprises, the specific fund needs to buy out claims that banks have towards businesses. You should consider giving pensioners the lowest income to supplement during the coronary crisis with the virus. These are all things that the government should do to get us through this crisis as best we can. I think this is the time when we need to include talks with trade unions and employers and with the government on key issues because any measure that does not have the support of all three parties, and such a measure will not be able to gain its effect. At this point, we need a social agreement, community and partnership, which is the key to a successful fight against the threat that has hit us all together and that is why all segments of society must equally bear part of the burden and must not be privileged and privileged. I expect that the government will quickly submit proposals for new laws that will address Croatia's key structural problems and therefore should not be delayed. The government must now and now lay sound foundations for our future. We live in a time in which there must be no excess, left behind, and hungry. We need Croatia with a human character and in the end before the crisis we have heard from a large number of employers and some economic experts that the state has nothing to do with business, that state interventions are not good, that the market will solve everything. One question to all of us, why are you now turning your head towards that motherland and asking for help, why have you suddenly lost faith in the market? These are some things that are very clear that our lives will be different after the crown.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196416	Thank you. It is now up to the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGE and Independent Representatives and New Politics, and first Mr. Hrelja will perform, and then I will announce Mr. Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196417	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, so first of all, I would like to express my sympathy with all those who are imprisoned and understanding to all those who are imprisoned in their homes and who follow these instructions from headquarters and congratulate them on contributing to public health, the security that this monster is not spreading to possibly spread that all of this is gone. Secondly, although these are difficult topics, I must say one thing that I can express one satisfaction that after 17 years of political struggle and the appearance of HSU that Croatian pensioners must be protected because their rights stem from a decade of payment of contributions, I must also congratulate Minister Maric, and also Mr Plenkovic that they finally understood because this was not the case with previous governments and those in 2009, that they realized that they should not be touched by those rights of pensioners based on contributions and that they were in fact the most vulnerable group because 483,000 citizens of the Republic live with monthly incomes of less than 2,500 kuna. Let's add another 150,000 to 3,500 kuna, and these are the ones that will certainly generate consumption because they have no savings, no supplies of food and household supplies, they couldn't, in some years and they couldn't go from shop to store to collect supplies and food and household supplies. Therefore, they will regularly spend everything on payment of services, bills and food, hygiene supplies and medicines and, therefore, 1/4 of that money paid monthly to pensioners of 3.5 thousand, 3.5 billion kuna 1/4 will surely return to Minister Maric or Deputy Prime Minister again in the budget. So these people and that giving will certainly not be problematic and will keep the gross social product at a certain level. It could have been better, and now my predecessor has been talking about the need to think about some retirement supplements and I agree in principle, but the government of the Republic of Croatia has missed one big thing over the past three years. She has adopted a strategy against poverty, but there is no "s" from that strategy, so there is no fight against poverty, no goals set, no action plans, nothing. In the past 3 years, the government of the Republic of Croatia has been able to change the rates for the poorest, whether it is supplemental health insurance, whether it is a rv subscription and many other social assistance could have been determined precisely in the fight against poverty, but it is not and now there is no more room for manoeuvre and it is a great pity for the social security of a large number of our citizens. So, and here, now that we're talking, of course, that we understand that the issue of the state budget is a closed circle, of course we don't expect the state to pay contributions to these 4,000 kunas, she's going to book that it's paid, there's no cash money, I don't pay myself in the same pocket, you can't pay in the budget, but you're going to realize that the workers who are left with the employers and who got the support of this country that they've recognised the payments of the contributions, the state just has to pay physically 5% on individual savings, so in the II pension column. Therefore, to clarify these things that the contributions are not at this point a burden but a recognition of the state that they are, that they are paid. I think that one measure came too late, that this measure that we are now bringing, and that is 4,000 support and this payment of contributions or recognition of contributions by the state should be the first measure to come and say in the last package, should have been said to everyone, to all entrepreneurs, to all those who hire, you will get this measure to keep people in the workplace somewhere because, and they have started mass layoffs. So, all fired workers don't run their internship, they cost the state again, and it would be better if they stayed employed, if they were being interned because they weren't guilty of this disease coming. So that measure should have been the first. But let's not think this is all over. Oh, God, let's get out of here. In a month and a half, stop all of this from going down in 20 or a month. And God forbid it's all going in the right direction. However, the same should not be the pessimist, nor should it be disastrous. This country has had far more opportunities to get out of this situation compared to the 2008 crisis than it had at the time, and then this whole procedure lasted very, very long. We need to start talking about something that's just hinted and the prime minister just hinted. It's a matter of solidarity. What is the issue of solidarity in the Republic of Croatia? Is giving it to someone because it makes me feel like someone should be given or it's a solidarity system. You know that some members of the board of Croatian Railways get to become members of the administration 3 months before retirement and receive 42,000 kuna. Croatian railways don't drive, will they get it all the time? You know that the profits of the manager of pharmaceutical companies are huge, that the profits of the bank manager are huge, we are focused so they tell us you have good salaries etc., bigger salaries than the representatives have and the mayors of municipalities that are much closer to our citizens. The system of solidarity means that those who have more must separate one part, must separate in order to survive this pandemic of the coronary virus together. How? It's done with special laws and it's done until we get out of this situation. I think that's what's expected if this lasts. No one has the right in this country, regardless of whether in private, social or any ownership, to receive 5,000 EUR and not to participate in solidarity with those who have lost their jobs that we will pay compensation at the employment office, and those in Croatia have a lot. And that must add up all the revenue. So I think we should go through this Easter and after this, after Easter, we'll face our thoughts and find the best model of solidarity that we have sources of funding for people who have lost their jobs, who won't be offered this whole time a new job because we all have to get out of this situation and institutions and all citizens including pensioners and our youngest, we'll all have to get out of this scratched, wounded, but we all have to survive. It's the mission of the state as the roof of all citizens of this republic. I'd like you to remember that part, and in the end, I'd just like to tell you a technical detail. We've noticed that there's a difference between the law on this accounting and the general tax law on what's been published on the government's pages and what's been published on the council's pages and what we have here, technically, is physically here, so we've offered you, and we've offered you amendments to one of those two laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196418	Thank you, too. Mr. Aleksic will continue the course of club thought and go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196419	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers Maric, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the SNAGA Party has proposed 16 important measures, anti-crisis measures at this difficult time for the whole world as well as for the Republic of Croatia. Of these 16 measures, almost nothing has been accepted, and I will present here six of the most important measures, in my opinion, the most important measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would have to take and which the Government of the Republic of Croatia may even accept in the next period because there will be no others. So we thus suggested that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would definitely propose a mandatory moratorium on the payment of loans without payment of interest. The government has promised to be a moratorium, however, the government did not propose this in the form of regulations, but rather, it has negotiated it with the banks and left it to the banks for mercy and impassion to determine the conditions for moratories. According to my knowledge, the bank is proposing moratories, offering moratories with interest payments. At this difficult moment when almost no one can make money, when people will lose their jobs, when they will go into a major crisis, not even banks can be allowed to make money on interest, and above all, because banks just owe citizens 20 billion kuna. The banks robbed 125,000 debtors with the currency clause franc and another 200,000 debtors with the euro and kuna currency clause, one for exchange rate and interest, and the other only for interest totalling 20 billion kuna. Such banks must be ordered by law by a moratorium, a mandatory moratorium on all loans for those citizens and for those companies that are not liquid without any charge. And that's why SDP and I personally proposed a special law on the basis of which we would now approve moratorium for non-legival citizens and non-legival businesses. The second thing we suggested was a temporary ban on all matters. There's no execution while this crisis is going on. The government said there will be no execution, but it did not propose any regulation but again something to talk to the believers, no enforcement, no goodbyes. It's hard to ban the performance, temporarily unblock all accounts of blocked citizens while the crisis is going on, when the crisis goes through, we go back to the past, but the crisis takes a deblocking of all accounts. The next thing, the reduction pays everyone evenly not even evenly but roughly equal to the same amount, and not to those who have little but to those who have a lot, starting from me and the like, to cut our salaries, if 50% should be, if necessary and for more, to set some limit below which the salary should not be, for example. Let it be an average income for those who have higher incomes, and those who have lower incomes if they have an average and less than average do not reduce anything, very simple. It may not have any major consequences on the budget itself, but it will show an example of our compassion for our citizens. Next thing you know, you're banning the layoff of workers, but not unconditionally, but only allowing workers to be fired on business terms and conditions. What does business-conditional termination mean? It is fired when we guarantee the worker that we will take him back to work when the crisis is over because, of course, there are companies that simply won't be liquid, he won't be able to pay the workers, it is understandable that such a worker must be fired temporarily, but let that resignation then be a business conditioned resignation and, in that case, such a worker must get his job back when the crisis is over. What I don't like about government measures is, first of all, that they come down to the pressure on the budget. The pressure on the budget means that we will be in debt in the future, which means that our public debt will go towards 100% of GDP, that's not good. These measures proposed by the SNAGA party are not only going to the budget but also going to those who owe Croatian citizens such as banks. I repeat, banks owe Croatian citizens 20 billion kuna, but they may even be liable to businesses, they may even be in debt to the state because the banks charged fees for their loans, and these fees are illegal. I hope and believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will simply have to accept most of the measures proposed by the SNAGA party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196420	Thank you, too. Now it is up to the gentleman, the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, who will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196421	Today mankind is in a surreal, I would say in an unrealistic situation if anyone had spoken to us a few months ago about what situation we'd be in, I wouldn't have trusted him first, I wouldn't have trusted him. So we have one crisis that is never greater, the biggest crisis in mankind's recent history, world statesmen say even bigger than the economic crisis that was caused by World War II itself. And it's bigger because most countries, I would dare say almost all the countries of the world are affected by this one global health and economic crisis. And if we try to objectively analyze what it's all about and forget everything that's being served every day from the mainstream media from those major media that are obviously under the influence of the state, we have to get a little bit surprised and ask ourselves a lot of questions that I'm here at, and I wouldn't actually give an answer, but I'm going to ask questions. The crisis began more than three months ago in China, China was blocked for several months. So it's not about a countryman like perhaps our country's only 4 million inhabitants, but it's about a country that has a billion and 400 million inhabitants. And this huge country was the most human in the world in quarantine for months, people didn't leave their homes, they didn't go to work, the state stopped working and nobody else in the rest of the world, and it wasn't suspicious in our Croatia either. These are our statesmen and our government to understand each other, look and do nothing. 29 or 28.01. Andrej Plenkovic, when replacing Minister Kujundzic, said for the first time we have an important health crisis, and we must replace Minister Kujundzic because we must prepare for the attack or crisis caused by the virus. It may have been the first time that he announced, from then to the HDZ elections after a month and a half, he didn't lift a finger. Because he didn't move because he didn't know or didn't want to, I don't know, but that's the question? The second question is why all the other world governments, why the Italians, the Spanish, the French ultimately did not take adequate measures when they saw what was happening in China, why? Didn't these intelligence agencies, secret agencies, give this information that I'm talking to my governments right now? And even I am one representative in a small country like Croatia warned the Croatian government of danger on February 5th, and all these numerous agencies did not warn their governments of the coming crisis. Now it's either totally incompetent or they didn't want to warn. You figure it out yourself, but the question is very interesting. The number of patients is growing unfortunately, today we crossed over and we cut a million, the number of deaths is growing here we are close to 60,000 dead and that number is still growing. I will nevertheless conclude here that most of these dead people have been chronically ill before, and that is the fact that there are very few healthy people, young people who have died because of this disease. So a strange scenario is surreal, unrealistic and I wonder if maybe this crisis is welcome for some sectors. I'm going to name one sector, and it's called the banking sector. Banks have been struggling for years to place their money, a lot of money, cheap money they even gave without interest. Suddenly, all the countries of the world and our Croatia are flocking to banks on the international market, wherever they are looking for money to save their national economies. An interesting coincidence, however, to know that one of this crisis is benefiting because all countries of the world are in considerable economic debt at the moment. From who? Banks. And the other fact is that banks had a big problem with the placement of their funds, that they had lots of money, billions and billions of dollars or euros that they couldn't place. And now Croatia has suddenly sobered up, the HDZ elections have ended, the old HDZ president is the new HDZ president, which is Andrej Plenkovic, he has swept up competition and is free to deal with the crown crisis. Suddenly such a wise, and in fact, politically invents a new body, some new faces, there is a new minister of beauty, a child face Mr. Beros and a little older Mr. Bozinović earthquake and then mostly moves in the process with the crown crisis. And suddenly we have a new body that has absolute powers, this body of the Croatian Parliament has given it the opportunity to do whatever he wants. And on all the media we have one real agitprop, yesterday in "Open" three men, three politicians from the ruling party, zero from the opposition. Look at any news from HRT that won't convey my speech or any other national television, you won't be able to see or in some side frames you'll see opposition and people who are critical of the government's measures towards this crisis. And the mouth will be full of journalists, programme leaders, to praise the Croatian government's measures. The funniest thing was to watch the "Open" show yesterday, where even the children of glory eventually celebrate the excellent conduct of the Civil Headquarters and even draw them as Supermans and Batmans. Do we have any objectivity? Well, I don't think we do. I've asked a lot of questions and here's every citizen to question what's really going on with this crisis, but I think that time is going to show or maybe someone's getting really well prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196422	Thank you very much, Mr. Zekanovic. I was in Zagreb during the earthquake and I assure you that the country was shaking. Here you go, sir. Wait a minute. There's only Hrvoje Zekanovic. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It doesn't say. Okay, come on, we'll be tolerated, when the situation is extraordinary, it needs to be tolerated. But nobody said you know otherwise it would say... No, they're very valuable associates here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, sir... The loudspeaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196423	Thank you like... thank you very much. Thank you. [[Intruder Radin: See how tolerated I am.]] Here I am today being lined up by heads today, experts in general practice, economists, experts in all kinds of heads, populists, I don't know, but I'd just say about this virus, we should respect neutral sources, no one knows how long this will take, no one knows, no Baba Wang, there's no Brothers to treat us look, no one invited him somewhere like some other head like these NGOs. So you have experts you have a model dynamics of spreading this disease and we see that progress every day. You have the University of South Korea they are already familiar with SARS, MERS etc. And he needs them, it's a neutral source to listen to them, and I think they're on the right track for neutral sources. Of course, we can't separate politics from the economy today from the coronary virus. Economic measures, there is Mr. Maric our... here for the economy, but I think that the first step must be every economic measure that we are talking about solidarity as Mr. Hrelja said, that we are taking care of the most sensitive group of people here, these are disabled, old heads, etc. It's the right hand, not the red right hand that first secured the money for three generations and they can tell us whatever they want, but we still don't have the origin of the property or the names of the heads that have the bank accounts outside, and we know that maybe they were all in the party. Economic measures and what to invest in right now, a lot of heads have already talked about what to invest in here. The critical infrastructure, the fire-season is coming, the water, that's what one head said before me that's been repeated ten times today, we're losing 48% of the water through going out. Soon you will see war that God does not give Sudan-Egypt water, if example 1 changes the course of the Nile what will be, 1% of the water is drinking water it must ensure and of course what Mr. Bulj repeated ten times food is a strategic resistor and all other heads. I agree with the heads although this peasant head HSS is more I'd say like some kind of South American Marxist group, not related to HSS, but of course food and there I agree with them and I'd like to see their origins. Of course after all this, this is going to go away, there have been worse times, we know that the global market has fallen 20% in the last two months. This is going to be worse, so I'm not going to be Grandma Wang here right now, but it's already visible that these car supply chains have been lifted since three months behind the delivery and China is the main supplier for some parts of the cell phone, and I think this is going to be worse than in 2008 a breakdown, an economic breakdown. And now it's time not only for economic security but it's time now the crisis is the best incentive, crisis and fear for real structural reforms, which no government has ever done. The grey economy is twice what it was in the EU and we know that there are many Croats on the issue of creative accounting they are masters on this issue. And the implementation of this plan, I think Mr. Maric will be very important on the ground, which someone said that some heads don't get on the train as they've been boarding there since 90 and some years. How is it possible in one country that a crawd like a small example of spending state money could spend $170,000 on a national team without answering anyone? So is the grey economy and now the professionalization of the administration and now it's time for all these institutions to work in synchronization, to see that money comes where it should come from. I'm about to cut wages here, but I'll also mention that the parties have a huge portion of the funds in their bank accounts, millions of kunas, and that should be used. Maybe you should give it up, not think about the election, that's what I said before. Millions of kunas are there, you can hunt anywhere that's critical, we know what the priority is. And you know Mr. Jovanovic what the priority is. And in the end, I'd say, someone here today is a member I think the CNS was talking about Hungary that Hungary was the first victim of the coronary virus. Let's talk about the data. Hungary is, according to all economic data, 6 places above the Republic of Croatia, GDP per head is bigger... Don't talk about democracy. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Speaking of democracy here, let me remind you of your former internships, today I passed when we talk about isolation I passed on to Kresimir Square there a political prisoners' association I saw a man for 12 years who'd been peeling in Leprechaun for your rat-head for 12 years and there he only ate chicken buttocks for 12 years, he didn't see a letter or package. And you enjoyed the party, today you're fine, you've created a second generation of emigrants. And I would send you all an auditor chief inspector of the Field Marshals I don't know what his property condition is this grouppenfuhrer's new head there, it's the only man, for the inspector the only man from... who was in the party, imagine. You're all networked, I don't trust you. I believe in God and mathematics, I would have solved everything in three months, I'd have you first, I'd have come to your door first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196424	Thank you very much, you've made yourself clear. Ms. Maria Puh will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196425	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Deputy Prime Minister. Here we are again today discussing a second package of measures to help our entrepreneurs and owners. In fact, this situation we found ourselves in, I would say none of us when we were making the budget last year had any idea that something like this might happen, and it really happened to us almost overnight. I believe that the state is sending its own measures a clear message to monitor the situation and welcomes it as ready as possible. Those first measures that were taken and which were, were going towards maintaining health, towards prevention, towards protecting our most endangered citizens. Although even then, when these measures were adopted, there were considerable objections and objections to the work of headquarters, today with a break from, I think, for about a month, it is evident that the measures that were then prescribed and which were adopted were well thought out and that they brought the result because, as we can see from all the tables of the Republic of Croatia is in the society of those countries that are most successful against this pandemic that has hit us, which unfortunately knows neither the borders, nor the nations, nor the race, nor the sex. After the concerns and the first measures adopted were aimed at maintaining health, of course it began to think and to find measures to get into this extraordinary situation and our economy and our entrepreneurs as easily as possible through this strange period. In the morning, the Prime Minister presented to us a second set of measures aimed at easing the economic consequences that are yet to be met. What's the direction that goes with these measures, I've been listening a little bit to these last few days since the measures have been presented, and when I see the consensus that exists here amongst us parliamentary deputies and the consent that is obtained by entrepreneurs, I would say that the direction that goes well, that it's thoughtful, of course there's always opportunities for them to be even better, but as I've already said, this sudden situation, I think we've prepared quite well for it. Payment of minimum wages and payment of contributions for workers whose companies cannot work now, I think it is the most valuable measure and will have the best effect in preserving, in maximum preservation of the number of jobs and in some ways provide safety for all our workers. Instead of the original 3.250,00 kn, payment of £4,000,00 by the state and with paid contributions for that amount, totalling €5.460,00 per employee. The activation of this measure, as far as I could see, has already been requested by nearly 70,000 entrepreneurs, and this applies to the boredom of 420,000 workers according to the estimates that have been made, the figure to which this coverage will be around 6,000 workers. The discharge of non-working or job-threatening entrepreneurs is also significantly affected by this pandemic by the release from tax duties and the introduction of the obligation to pay VAT only at the expense of the invoices issued. And I think that this measure will help keep our economies and our entrepreneurs alive and help them during this period that is yet to come. Also, I don't know if anyone mentioned it today or not, it's not fatal, but I think it's very helpful and a lot of entrepreneurs contacted me about it, it's moving the deadline for making and handing over annual financial reports from 30.4. on June 30th. In these strange conditions of difficulty movement and potential risk of infection will be protected and many accountants who will be able to better determine their protocols and work with their committees because we know that in this last month before the release of annual financial reports can be quite lively, done throughout the days and nights, so in this way they will be significantly relieved of this period. I'm optimistic because the government's response to this crisis isn't what it was when the crisis happened to us in 2009. As I remember then going towards tax increases, which, of course, resulted in a decrease in consumption, and these measures that are now set and based primarily on keeping jobs and people having income, I hope that there should be no significant disturbance in consumption in the future. This crisis that has happened to us now seems terrible, but I believe that it might also be an opportunity for us to change our economic policy. We all know that so far our foreign trade deficit has covered tourism. This may be our chance to find a way to strengthen and strengthen our production. As far as production is concerned, I especially think we should put emphasis on agriculture. We saw for ourselves what was happening at times when there was an announcement of a crisis, when a possible quarantine was announced, all citizens rushed to supermarkets, there were huge ranks because there was simply fear in people of shortages. Stronger agricultural production would not only help the economy, but would also provide safety for people in future events that can happen to us, so that such a reflex reaction does not happen again that it rushes into supermarkets immediately and goes with stockpiling because we will be certain in some way if we produce our own food. What I'd like to mention, anyway, is that I don't think we should, and this has already been mentioned here today, that there should be no significant reduction in state investment or God forbid their total abolitions. The capital and municipal projects carried out both by the state and the local self-government units, I believe, should continue to continue to the same extent, and, if possible, with the help of possibly more resources that we have not used to increase them. It is extremely necessary that that part of the work that can still be done uninterrupted, of course by respecting the epidemiological picture and the epidemiological instructions that they are working to make it easier to start an economy and return to our previous life at least it will never be the same again, but in some way to go back. Several ministries had called for tenders and public calls for units of local self-government and that the situation was normal as it should have been, these tenders should have already been published. I hope that there has only been a delay in publishing the results given the situation in which we are and that there will be no and that there will be no suspension of these supports which are also for local self-government units which will also have to be significantly audited and directed towards their budgets and see how they can overcome this crisis. This epidemic, I think, is an opportunity for us to put our heads together, as we Zagorci know how to say, and to find a policy that will economically not only restore us and return us to the track where we were before this pandemic, but also give us an additional power to fix our place on the scales that measure the economy and economic activity. A large number of countries have done invisiblely certain measures in 2010. Years of the last crisis, and I think we could use that opportunity now. And of course we need to monitor the situation because, as we see ourselves, it changes from day to day and unfortunately none of us have a crystal ball so that we can tell when it will end and how it will end and that we need to prepare further measures to protect our fellow citizens' health primarily, and beyond that and how to get out of this crisis as little as possible. The Party of Labour Club and Solidarity and Independent Representatives supports this package of laws that we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196426	Thank you, Your Honor. We're going to an individual debate. The first reported representative of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196427	Thank you, Vice President. During the debate of this individual, or free speech, I made most of my views, so I won't be too long, waiting for other colleagues to say anything during this debate. I'll do it again. I'd say the main guidelines. We told Prime Minister Plenkovic during the first package of measures and I told him through the replica that these measures were not enough, these measures that were in the first package that people could not be promised write-off but my replica went in the direction of the delay, and I also published on my facebook that replica I had towards the prime minister. The prime minister then said it was some kind of initial measure the government is proposing and would go with new measures. However, I think that we are late, that we should have responded immediately to this crisis and this challenge, that we should have gone immediately with clear and concrete measures to write down all the givens. Also, the grants and the financing of a special line towards our craftsmen and entrepreneurs, and what we are looking for and what we are looking for within our package of laws, 8 of the law in total, will probably come to the debate there after Easter because on Tuesday we are discussing the SDP package of measures, I don't know how correct it is for colleagues from the SDP, after the vote these legal packages will be, and it may have been fairer that it was also left after the Easter. I don't know how much they're going to hear about what they're proposing, but well, that's their problem and they're going to have to find ways to communicate. We will, apart from these taxes and taxes where we are looking for certain changes, look for a moratorium on performances and loans, and we have written that law and referred it to the procedure. It's simply not fair at this point to take action, to do business, to ask if we've given a particular team out to our entrepreneurs let's give it out to our citizens, our people, people who connect the end with the end, who are simply pressed on by the ends. You've brought them into that position and order to give them in a crisis like this, and it's going to be our proposal. Here is the finance minister, and I expect him to meet urgently with Justice Minister Bosnjakovic, to have the government set up a meeting on the subject and go in that direction. You can't please the banks, I know that you have almost that reflex that you're always on the side of the banks, and never on the side of a small man, and we on the other side and before this crisis and now we want to be on the side of the weakest in our society and in this direction goes this legislative proposal. You don't have to accept it, but you suggest something similar we'll vote for it as we will vote for these government proposals. We don't have a problem with you suggesting it like you have a problem when the opposition suggests something. Whatever you suggest, you won't accept it. And as for wages, we will not allow you to cut and cut wages to those on the first line of defense against the crown of the virus. So we're not going to let you cut your salaries to doctors, we're not going to let you cut your salaries to nurses, we're not going to let you cut your salaries to cops, soldiers, firemen, all those who are involved in the fight against this coronary virus. You called this war, in war heroes don't get paid, but if you're going to cut, start from the county. When you touch the county, when you touch the mayors, when you touch the county institutions, then we can even think about it. And now at this point we're looking for a salary increase, here from this place, ministers here, asking for a raise of salaries for doctors, nurses, for our army, for our police, for our firefighters, so that's the minimum you can make, an increase in wages, that's my message, that's what I end up with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196428	Thank you, dear representative of the bush. We've got a few replicas, the first respected representative of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196429	Here, I would like to say to my colleagues that there is a minister, that the fact that MOST has proposed as amendments to the first measures of the government, that they are now accepted, means not a delay but a write-off. However, the fact, you did well and you said that the biggest problem of the Republic of Croatia is the counties that suck up decentralised money for health care, for education, and basically that money who knows where it is directed is never worse or health care, and school management is not the best. We have examples of us falling ceilings in schools, you could talk more about, here's the former mayor of our chairman Mr. Sanader, that ever since the county without this crisis only from the Dalmatian burns 100,000 people have moved out since the county. The fields are not processed, the irrigation is gone, the markets are, imports from Italy, concessions on the maritime well-fits of their godmothers, party coalition partners, and the coalition in Split-Dalmatia County is called Bene Thank you. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196430	Thank you, colleague Bulj, I absolutely agree with you, but they will guard the county until the last drop of blood. But as they will fight, as Ante Sanader will fight for this litter of art, so we will fight for Croatian doctors, nurses, for our police, our army, if necessary teachers and teachers. As they will protect the county and litter of art, so we will protect our people who are on the first line and we will not let you touch them. Until you begin to remove and cut counties, county institutions, county companies where you waste money, where you buy 300,000,00 kn cars, where you act like the Pharaohs. We won't give it to you, it won't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196431	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196432	Dear Representative Grmoy, unlike that crisis in 2008, we are currently having a completely different crisis and cutting wages in the public system, I don't think it's something that should be on the plate. But you mentioned one thing that I mentioned and in my debate, which is that through collective bargaining, there is Minister Maric, along with the unions, needs to be through collective agreements, so to all those who are on the front line of defense against the Corona virus, which is health workers, it's the military, it's the police, but all others, that they need to be arranged for supplements on the basis of 50 to 100% while the crisis is going on, but it can only be done through collective bargaining because in another way we will do that to some without giving them any.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196433	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196434	You clearly should, I said that, here's the minister I told those people they needed to raise their salaries or some supplement, let them find a way to do it, but that's the minimum I can do. Here, the minister is here, I hope he listens even though he's on the laptop, I understand he's busy now, he's got a lot of work to do, but Croatian doctors and nurses, so the military, the police, all those who defend us from this coronary virus, who are exposed, so they need to meet up and increase receipts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196435	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative, Sagar. Give up? Okay, thanks. [[/Clip intrusion: No response.]] Next individual debate, distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196436	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrades, colleagues, respected ministers. When we talk about, here's the whole day of the government's measures, of course these are the second package of measures, we as a trial, and I took the first measures and I took it, but then I warned like my club about the problem means that it's being delayed rather than cancelling the commitments to entrepreneurs, that's what the government has accepted, whether it's too late. However, I heard from my colleagues here, I wasn't here at the time for precautions, that Mr. Bacic said that in 1.9, the first crisis unit around the coronary virus was, uh, 9, excuse me, excuse me, excuse me. 9.1. means in the first month, and after that, even the prime minister said at one point was when it was a shift, i.e. Minister Kujundzic said it is a priority to deal with the coronavirus, and we know that measures have only begun to be given after HDZ, when elections within the HDZ, when the government, the HDZ, ended. So that impression will remain between us, but I would talk about what is very important. It's very important, it's a MOST now, so a colleague of the bush is also mentioned here, it's this write-off i.e. This moratorium on credits and moratorium on purpose. We know that even the executive procedures last from the KKZ Raiffeisen to all those who have done more evil to our people, could not in the countries where they came from and because of the meaning of these people would be at this moment, and other countries have taken such measures, I think the banking sector, and the minister knows, at this point there is, is liquid, but the question now is how to keep it all going. But what I do most of the time and what I suggested as a law and put into emergency procedure, it's the Agricultural Land Act. I'll always say that. It is unclear to me that in the Republic of Croatia we have just under 800,000 hectares of unprocessed land, the state has to take certain measures, half of which is owned by the Republic of Croatia. Two years ago. is the Republic of Croatia, 2 years ago. We passed this law in the assembly and then we passed it in a certain way, local self-government brings programs, the county has to give its opinion, so the ministries. I gave the law to get the county thrown out. to the county i.e. Is that simply the way of a kosara car, not to say everyone's holding and nobody's giving up, and so far is not divided but 11,000 hectares, means 1 or 2% of the agricultural land. I call on the minister, the prime minister, here's the 5th time I'm saying that it's very important for us to be self-sufficient, that it's amazing that we import pork in Croatia most of the food products, but even weirder than that. We bake products import a billion kunas, baker's products, and Slavonia is unprocessed. I don't know what kind of policies they were. I don't understand today why the markets are closed, and the trade chains are open, where we have Italian pomidores, where we are now going to get Spanish strawberries and there are conditions, so they're better at the market if we stick to measures and it's very easy to do in markets open to people selling their vegetables, fruits and dairy products. Well, we can't afford import lobbys now. It's not me... Tomato or pomidora, we can have it. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I would just, I mean, it's unclear to me, it's unclear to me logic, it's unclear to me logic, colleagues and colleagues may be funny to you, but it's unclear to me how we might be importing 3 billion euros of food products, and the land is unprocessed. Well, it's not us, I mean, I can't accept it at all. So the measures must be strong and immediately and Minister Vukkovic, and this government must wake up. She can't be this all the time, "Alice in Wonderland." The law on the allocation of agricultural land does not work. Agricultural land is to be farmed, agricultural land is processed freedom in times of crisis. Well, enough of the silos that robbed these wheat on the paws and paws, let alone these grains, grains. I mean, I can't figure out that we're not taking these measures. We've been talking about this for a month. And I don't get it, and here it's actually clear that import lobbys within the ministries have done a huge job, but in the interest of foreign producers. And finally, water, forests, agricultural land, these are our resources that we must protect and protect and defend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196437	Thank you to Honorable Representative Buljo. Next debate, distinguished representative Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196438	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm just gonna keep going for a little bit on what's in front of the club and, of course, welcome these measures, but I don't think there's any doubt about it and let's try to see what we can do next. What I started with the theme in front of the club is exactly the day after these measures stopped, when there is no more tax exemption, when there are no more one-time payouts for employees, how will our economy behave, how will employers function? And that's actually the next step that we have to think about in these months or two, as long as it's supposed to take all these measures, think and wait ready. One of these proposals is the application of Art. 3. 131. The Public Procurement Act, which speaks of a negotiating procedure without prior publication, calls specifically to extend that possibility of ordering small-value purchases or to thresholds to 3 offers or higher of those values in order to make it right where we know we have to do something faster and employ as many people as possible through certain sectors. What I would just suggest is that, I don't know, I didn't see in the measures, to postpone the lease of state space, and write off for those who are banned, because it doesn't make sense, given that everything is going in that direction any more or less, so that we also think that, to those who have been banned from working, we don't burden them with regard to the rent. Let's also say one of the measures would be to allow a blue dilde for construction machinery, modeling fisheries, for agriculture, given the same as one of the sectoral aid measures for construction. The question is one thing, the only thing with workers who have ended a contract on certain measures, is it then either they have to be extended or they will be considered a fall of employees according to how we interpret it, it is certainly considered a fall of employees? And the last thing I wanted to say about the moratorium. I got a message here and it says next. Dear Sir, on your request to postpone payment of liabilities per loan, please provide us with the following documentation for the purpose of processing the request. So, the entrepreneur signed up to delay his wars or delay his moratorium. It says this, the analytical tables excluded with 31.12.2019, the annual financial report of 31.12. and 31.3., the gross balance sheet with 31.12. and 31.3., the tax administration's confirmation of the absence of debt, bon 2, statement for HROK. So, it's not just like that to come to this, I'm practically reading that very little is different from the new credit debt and that all the documentation goes if we want to raise some new credit. I don't see it here, especially I don't understand this tax clearance of the tax administration about the lack of debt to the Commercial Bank, it, I can't even figure it out like this, but good. So, I'm afraid, and this is an appeal to all banks not to abuse what was given to them, and it's given them a lot in the reduction of mandatory reserves and in the way that all credits or those who are, don't now have to go to reservations, so let them do as we obviously have the report and from our businessmen to solve HZZ more or less spottically, that the payments are bigger seats for these aids, that they simply don't play there too much bureaucracy, especially in this time burdening accounting, and especially if we have extended the deadline for handing over the annual financial reports to 30.6. and you're practically now going to have to do all these reports and of course complicate something that should be quite simple, and that's 3 months no one has to pay anything, you go on for 3 months there to stop. Literally moratorium, everything stands, nothing, no interest, nothing. Now, why, how, I appeal to all the banks to make it possible for them to meet, is this certainly a misuse of the trust that this government has given them, to which everything has made it possible and all of what we here want to do with these measures right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196439	Thank you to Honorable counsel Curai. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196440	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm glad Minister Maric is here, and I'm sorry he's not a culture minister because I'm going to dedicate my debate to the state of culture. When the epidemic broke out, one of the first messages to people both by psychologists and by the headquarters was to stay home, stay home, read books, listen to music, watch movies, watch theatre shows that are on TV, watch and listen to recorded concerts, it's a good time. On the other hand, as you know, there are no public gatherings in the decision of the headquarters. We forbade cultural workers to work, no theatre performances, no concerts, no book presentations, no movies. We can't skip that fact, by decision, so the authorities, these people are being prevented from working. And we need to know who it's about. It's about people who usually have, in normal circumstances, the weakest jobs, the least paid, the least fees. A large part of the sector lies on the shoulders of the feeble workers, people who do not have a permanent job, people who do not have permanent contracts, these are people who are fighting for a place under the sun with their creation, for a new value. They create not only new ideas, but also new values, they pay taxes neatly, but they pay the salaries of many in the public sector. The conclusion of the Government is practically required that cultural institutions cease to finance anything that is not considered a basic drive. What exactly does that mean? Among other things, it means that there will probably be no new prime ministers this year, that there will be no new projects, that what started will not be completed and that the cultural drive, regardless of those in permanent institutions or independent cultural workers, will practically stop. And we need to know that independent culturers, so those who create, what our house has doors and windows, which is open to, what we grow by, which is not only our identity, not only are the weakest ones paid otherwise in a scale of all possible jobs but they are not regularly because they are not constantly employed or creditworthy, they are not mostly property owners, the vast majority of them live as tenants, without income are condemned to the horror of human existence. The culture ministry has decided that for all those for whom the state pays taxes and contributions, that is around 1400, it will provide compensation at different levels. One is 1.625.00, the other is 3.250,00 kn, considering their incomes last year. Ministers, please don't forget that at this hour the mainstream and large and small cultural institutions in the Republic of Croatia owe them millions of dollars, and that they paid their fees in time, that they paid what they did last year, they would have a far better starting position. Now this government decision, which practically blocks the payments of everything that is not necessary, will put us in a position to wonder if the HNK in Split will pay 3 million kunas of debts to its external associates without talking about other institutions. So it's about tens of millions of kuna debts to people who've done their job according to contracts, but they're not paid, and now they're in these scissors that they'll probably have to be on the lowest scale possible. It's not right. And cultural entrepreneurship is entrepreneurship, without them we're weaker, without them we're a question of what, if we have an identity, let's not forget them, it's not about the mass of people. Today we have heard in the address of both the prime minister and the minister that already about 400,000 people are actually considered a target group of these measures, and there may be several thousand of them. Let's not forget them. Here, I appeal, let's not let culture stay in the mud, it's the most important and progressive thing we have. When the summer ahead guarantees that there will be no new cultural production because institutions and festivals will be closed, let's not forget them, and these people have to eat, they have to pay their directories, they have to pay their rent, they have to provide their children with at least minimum minimums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196441	Thank you to Reverend Richembergh. The next is the debate of the distinguished representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196442	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. By listening to the debates of clubs today and individually, I am asking myself whether my colleagues and colleagues have read the proposal in sufficient detail these three amendments to the law. We, with these amendments to the law, create preconditions to solve a bunch of these problems that are being talked about here today. At the same time, however, we must be aware of one thing that these three proposals of the law on the one hand regulate and direct us to the revenue side of the state budget which is definitely less due to everything that is going on, and because of these reduced economic activities and limited economic activities, the expenditure side of the state budget will grow. At the same time, in these two draft laws, the Government proposes a model and a way to legally resolve and help those who have lost their income on the one hand is to pay their wages, on the other hand, the other is to provide for compensation or replacement revenues for those who will be left without these revenues. However, I personally ask myself one question whether we are aware that at this point on a ship called the state budget is loaded somewhere in 700 or whether it will be boarded somewhere in 700, 800,000 new passengers and whether the ship's pilot, which is the Government and the finance minister, is very consciously ordering that those small boats that float around that ship not to sink them, because it is not the purpose of certain measures to help one, and to drown others. And if you look at the General Tax Act a little bit better then it is clearly stated for those who have stopped doing what will happen to them, what rights they have, and I will repeat what I said this morning, in fact in the replica, Minister Marić, these 4,000 kunas are not 4,000, who is 5,820 or 825 kuna, because what these 4,000 have to pay in pension and health on the spending side of the state budget and HZZO is creating expenditures that simply have to be settled, and there will be no income, there will be no one to pay them who pays that salary, and the state will pay that salary. However, we need to know that the assessment is that by the end of 4. There may be nearly 600,000 of those who will use this payout model that these people in the past months have had far more income than they have today and that their separation into retirement in health so as to base income tax which the local self-government units' budgets have been far more generous, far higher. So when you add that 1,820, 1,825 to that difference that will no longer appear in the state budget and in the budget of the unit of local self-government, then the complexity of this bill should be seen. And the logical thing is that fellow MPs every single segment or micro group or economy or society suggests that we have to solve and that's good. But what's crucial is, do we see in this bill that this can be solved, I see, simply in amendments to the General Tax Law and amendments to the Law on the implementation of the state budget, I see that the government is opening up space to solve these problems. Because look, we need to be aware of the fact that there must be mutual responsibility and respect for the rules we make in this business first. And that's why I'm glad, and that's why I'm going to repeat that the government has installed this section 6 in Art. 1 for users of the measures pursuant to this Article, which are subsequently determined to have exercised the right for himself or other persons under the provisions of this Article, which he did not have the right to be liable to do so. It is simply such a message that has to be sent because this ship will try to get those who do not have the right to do so, and at the same time in today's debates, we have seen how much each of us in our knowledge think that there are those who would have the right to do so, and that is the complexity of this job. And that is why we must be aware of the government's support for this bill of law and another thing that, by adopting these laws, we are giving the government space to solve right now a series of these problems that colleagues have discussed today and are likely to discuss by the end of today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196443	Thank you to Honorable counsel Shuker. The next debate is the distinguished representative Grosdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196444	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister of Finance. So here's what I said and in the replica, it surprises the attitude of some colleagues who were very skeptical in advance of taking those March measures, and they don't really realize how important it is to see the integrity of all segments and components of the economy and society as a whole so that they can react well, and to listen to all the problems that arise precisely in these extraordinary situations. This intervention on the General Tax Law then the Accounting Act and the State Budget Law actually enables this roof law, organic, general tax law to solve a lot of problems and we know that since 2008 when it was adopted, and then it has seen a lot of changes, it allows for a very high-quality instrument to be able to regulate relations with tax authorities, as regards taxpayers to local self-government units and other public enterprises, and this is a very high quality solution where they are allowed to be paid off in a period of up to 24 months in some cases. The intervention is on Article 107a. The law already amended in March, however, with these amendments is particularly specific. What special attention has she given now? It is precisely that the payment of tax liabilities without the billing of interest is 3 + 3 months and what I said 24 months which is very significant and perhaps should also be referred to this part by blocked citizens where it would be very easy for them to pay off their debt. We see that this is also the way that it works to preserve jobs, and it is very important that this net payment of 4,000 kuna is increased for these contributions because it is actually the untaxable amount that is very much helping to avoid major erosion and large layoffs. When we talk about here the impact of all these changes on the revenues of the state budget then we must be very careful because we see that this way, both with all these changes and with the crisis, is also affecting consumption. I would warn of another fact, which is the units of local self-government that will lose a significant portion of income tax revenue and the government here in carrying out the state budget predicted that it would be compensated with a unscathed loan for the part that is actually coming back, or which is in return to the citizens. I appeal there that this part can be expanded because it is not only the amount lost in the income of local self-government units but a much larger amount, and this would greatly facilitate the functioning of local self-government units, which must take care of budget rebalancing, cost reduction. Well, here's an example of my city that's already reduced the rent for companies that can't work. The first measures reduced or abolished the memorial rent which is intended, and then the residence tax, etc., therefore it is very important to regulate whether VAT payments on this expected income or not, that this is regulated and, in any event, all praise for these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196445	Thank you. Dear MPs Peric one replica, the esteemed representative of Šuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196446	Thank you very much. My colleague Peric, in an individual debate over the short period of time, I don't think I've arrived. I think you've opened one topic well, and these are the units of local self-government. As a reduction in revenues will occur at the level of the state budget, so will a reduction in revenues on, in units of local self-government for a simple reason, is one income tax, but as the state goes towards those who do not work, you cannot charge someone something if it does not work, such a communal fee that is the second source of income by the size of local self-government units you will not be able to charge from those companies that do not do this. And I think when we talk about responsibility then at all levels of government, both from local to state, we just have to do it, everyone has to make projections of what's going to happen to them because they have a database that companies have asked for funding from these salaries. Therefore, these companies do not work and their payment of municipal fees and other fees to local self-government units is questionable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196447	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196448	That's right, thank you very much, yes, and it's very short to have much more to say, indeed every unit has to make projections and see how much they're really going to lose from the income tax expected in the regulatory conditions and then at that height or in some percentage to enable this precisely unambiguous loan because that's how it makes it possible to function, with all units having to take care of the savings, to save and not spend on what is not necessary. I would also, but it cannot be stopped, let's say, some of the investments that are under way, were related to the European Funds, to what has already been signed, agreed, etc., and what is most necessary. So it really needs to be taken care of. I would also point out that everyone thanks to healthcare professionals, police officers, firefighters, merchants, carriers and statisticians who have done and are doing volunteer work every day here in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196449	Thank you, Representative Peric. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196450	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Remember this day because there was a horror today. One of us who moves in human form dared to say that the whole country was paralyzed because a grandfather had decided to live. So, gentlemen, if those are the words of one representative, then we who suffer it among ourselves are also in some way threatened because all of what we do honorably is throwing us away such stains. I won't speak because I despise at this point and his name, and read on social networks in one renowned portal everything he said. A man can't say that. A man can't say that. These are our roots, that these people who live with honor, who have done their part, who are our parents that they will not be us. My people, if we're going to say so, then you better not, people, watch who you choose next time. I have no words, I have no words to express anger, contempt for such advances. It's not human. Is this image aware that it spreads... or ageism as it's written or impatient towards the elderly and it's not the first time and it's not the first time. That behavior is my people's inadmissible in this society. And if we who are aware of our parents ’ respect for them, because this proves that we respect our lives, that this respects the lives of our children, we do not speak clearly and loudly, then this society will not be healthy. It's not healthy if we let this happen and it's never going to heal if we don't talk about it, there's going to be some kind of adventurer that's going to crack on something that this civilization, this democratic reach that we've come to cannot possibly endure. It's inhumane, it's uncivilized, it's inhumane. If I were to stop with this tirad, and it deserves all your tirads, I would just say something else that I was saying on behalf of the club about the need to set up a solidarity system in this country, the greater the crisis, and the longer it lasts, the more we need to set up this stronger system of solidarity. The system of solidarity is not a system of volunteering and benevolence, the system of solidarity is a system that must ensure that everyone in society during the crisis from the situation in which we live and we are working, come out wounded, scratched, mortified, mentally weary, but to get out alive so that they can get up again so that they can walk, fly, that they can enjoy after all this expensive goes away, it's our duty to have systems that ensure life after this, after this pandemic of the coronary virus, but for that we need to think and try without being in power, they've been in opposition, and it's worth every effort, every minute and every second of our thinking. Let us be positive, think of all our citizens and share the fate of very solidarity with them and create a system of solidarity. I appeal to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196451	You said some hard words, but here. We have two replicas. Dear Representative Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196452	Thank you, Vice President. I join your condemnation of such statements in public, inappropriate statements. We are organized human society, we are not a pack of wolves, so this is no way to talk in public space, especially not a representative in the Croatian Parliament to make such statements. We live in sensitive times, and it is vital that everyone in this society keep an eye on what they say. Today, a retired professor on Croatian Radio came forward and asked the editors and members who were there, members of the government and representatives of the union not to be used in that space and that concept that is applicable to the real sector because then she said, and then what we are in the public sector, we are irrational. So everything we are saying today in public space should be measured because we are all affected by this crisis and that is why it is not necessary to stegmatise certain members of society, and especially not in this way because the person of older life is evaluated in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196453	Thank you to the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196454	I thank my colleague Sagar for his understanding. Don't think it was easy to say these words. You who have long known me, you know I never said words like this, but I don't care for a second, and I'm not sorry that I said them because they deserve every single one of us, not just our own, but all the honorable people of this society who live solidarity among the generations, who advocate let's say harmony between the young and the old generations in this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196455	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196456	I think it's important to say that Mr. Ivan Pernar then after C vitamin is now another new squadron, we regret that our colleague is our parliamentary representative, but I hope the citizens will know in the next election who they will vote for. What's on social media today is absolutely for all the convictions because it doesn't matter if someone has 80, 90, whether they're 30, 40 or 20 years old, everyone needs to fight because they're human beings, and Mr. Pernar doesn't realize that we are against this threat, we can only fight this virus with the methods of the 19th century, and this quarantine. This means that social distance is the only medicine that can help to get stuck in this crown both young and old, and that we should not get stuck because the health system must withstand this pressure. Mr. Pernar doesn't understand it and unfortunately I as a hematologist can't help him.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196457	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196458	Thank you. Dear fellow Mrssic that you said what I said that I would not say out of contempt for that act. I think that's okay with me, too, but since you've been referring to my presentation, then I have to say that the image said that the elderly should be abolished and the right to vote on what I've also reacted to in my time, it was, though, at the beginning of the mandate, and I was hoping that maybe it would change a little bit, and that it would learn something, but it's obvious that some people don't have anything going on in their heads.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196459	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Peja Grbin is the next individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196460	Dear colleagues and colleagues, when we began to discuss these measures that the government presented a few days ago, and yesterday, from the session, we made it clear to the Croatian Parliament that they are far better than those adopted in March. Those adopted in March were probationary, they did not solve almost one serious problem. These are much better than that. But just because they're better doesn't mean they're perfect doesn't mean they're gone and I'd say a significant place to fix it. Given the time I'm gonna stop here with the introduction, and I'm gonna try to count the things that I keep in mind for the next few minutes to be fixed. First of all, the measures do not talk about protected rentals, it is a particularly sensitive category of Croatian society which is particularly affected by the earthquake because many of them lived in apartments in the center of Zagreb which are now damaged. I would ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take measures to protect the protected tenants and ensure that they can settle their obligations, in particular the moratorium to raise fees or to raise rents. Next is the lease problem. First, what my colleague Curaj was saying, which is a matter of regulations to enable the state as well as units of local self-government to free users of business spaces from paying the rent. I think we need to do this under emergency, and I hope that the government will make an appropriate regulation within the next few days. However, we have another problem with this, which is the tax treatment of the situation in which the owner of the business space frees the user of the business space of the rent. Many of these situations we have, people have gone out to the tenants because they know they're better off saving someone who's gonna stay and work when the crisis goes down than throwing out and risking whether they'll ever find someone new. However, such use of the business space must also be subject to tax which is not addressed to these measures. The problem that is not mentioned, which should be solved, is the problem of the seamen. Many sailors have come to me, and they are also seriously affected by this crisis, and the measures that are directed towards them are not adequate. The following problem is workers who have one or more shares of the company they work in. These workers have been excluded, a week ago I warned, the ministry has announced a solution to the problem, but until today the problem has not been solved. I appeal to you, I plead to get rid of it, it's present in tourist companies, it's present in others, it's present where there was privatisation, it's present where there was working stockholdering. The person who has one share may be a formal co-owner, but with this one share he does not influence the business of his business, must have the right to support. Another category of workers has been compromised, and these are students workers. We've been informed today that for students, workers are not allowed to issue passes, please update this situation, it's not a lot of people, but it's about people who need that money. If they live in Velika Gorica for example, they are students, they should travel to work in Zagreb they cannot because they are not allowed to issue passes. I'm glad that at this point Minister Cappelli, this previous one may have gone more to Minister Maric, but this goes directly to Minister Cappelli because it refers to workers who were supposed to start working mostly 1.4, and you and I both know what kind of workers are involved, primarily tourism workers. The question I have received and which I am asking you is whether these workers will be hired by the employer or by the employer for these workers if they are hired to have the right to this assistance, which is now set at 4,000 kuna. So that's a question that kills both employers and workers. I saw you yesterday on a similar question for the workers who got fired, which if the employer hired them again, said you didn't know the answer, I hope you found out by now, and it would be very, very good to go out for the pay phone and give that answer. The last thing I'm going to talk about, I'm left with 30 seconds, maybe I'm bored with it, but I think it should be reiterated, repeatedly stressed until the government starts to solve the problem, and that's the question of the judiciary. Last Friday, the minister announced a reference to the law procedure that will address the issue of deadlines, as well as many other problems in the work of the judiciary. Such a law has not yet come into the process, I appeal to the government since I was told from the ministry that the law is almost ready, to refer the law to the procedure during the weekend at a telephone session so that we can discuss the law on Monday, and to vote on Tuesday because it is an extremely serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196461	Thank you. We've got two replicas, the first distinguished representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196462	Thank you very much, fellow coat of arms. You and I know well that this government passed a law where they didn't care about protected tenants at all. The protected tenants are certainly still in the added problem of the earthquake in the City of Zagreb. When it comes to people who had to leave their apartments because they couldn't be in them, the government said that there were 30 apartments available and that they would be arranged and received by certain people. And the City of Zagreb, although we have data that the City of Zagreb has 7100 apartments, which is the City of Zagreb, which is Holding, the City of Zagreb has said that there are 0 apartments that can be solved for people who really died in the earthquake. This earthquake has actually shown the extent of damage in the city of Zagreb which for many years has been and have resulted now, so 7,000 apartments, and when it comes to meeting citizens and protected tenants 0. I'm afraid they'll stay really unprotected maximum.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196463	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196464	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Mrak Taritash, you know that I wrote that we together as parliamentary representatives have applied for an assessment of the constitutionality of this law that regulates the issue of protected tenants and I am taking this opportunity to ask, to plead, to appeal, however you wish, to the Constitutional Court to solve this problem as soon as possible. These people are in an unspeakable situation, a report sent by the government at the end of last year showed that protection measures did not have any effect at all. And now there's been a crisis with the coronary virus and then another earthquake in the City of Zagreb. I believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should react hastily and the direction in which it should go is next. Returning the rent to the amount that was at the time of the law, moratorium until the Constitutional Court's decision, and certainly in the worst case, moratorium as long as this crisis continues and as long as the consequences of the earthquake in the city center of Zagreb are not removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196465	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196466	Dear colleague, you mentioned the VAT issue, I mentioned the authority because it was too short for me to elaborate longer. So, VAT either for private tenants, whether for local self-government, is calculated on the invoiced lease. Otherwise, in this case, tax authorities that come in control one day may be obliged to pay VAT on the expected income if we do not state it as something that is conditional, so if it is 0 kuna, if the city or the renter of the aliquot is given up, that it is not really in the obligation to pay VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196467	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196468	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, as far as local self-government units are concerned, I wasn't talking about VAT, I was talking about renting as such. So, units of local self-government are bound to charge and bill, you've been head of finance, you know that very well, they're obliged to charge the rent. And they have no legal basis without amending the law on the lease of a business space in order to reduce or release the lease. As a result, I appeal to amend the law on the lease of business space as soon as possible in the procedure. However, when we talk about rent tax, it is not only value added tax, there is income tax or income tax. Income tax is calculated by tax administrations not by what is in the contract but by their estimates. And you, if you're not paying and you've freed your tenant from paying the rent, you still have to pay the tax. At this point, in this situation, I don't think it's justified for both those tenants and those tenants who have agreed otherwise or that no pay really needs to be made to meet, the more they, as private entrepreneurs of another private entrepreneur, have freed for solidarity. Here, I'm sorry I overstepped. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196469	Thank you. The next debate of the distinguished representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196470	Dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to look back here if these measures that we have in front of us today were speaking in part about the write-off of certain donations and that's what's good. I would also like to say, I see here a resolute tourism minister, that I have a number of hotelers who have planned to expand their accommodation capacity, but in these circumstances with these investments care, it is very important that these investment projects are launched. I therefore appeal this way since we have a green light from the European Commission so that we can change thematic location within the EU funds' priorities that you actually use as much resources as possible for energy efficiency in tourism and industry so that this fixed part of the costs to our hotelers and that this investment cycle simply does not stop. I would also like to talk here about pensioners who have up to 500,00 kn pensions, they are about 95000, and they are also about 185,000 those who have pensions up to 1,000,00 kn, they are extremely difficult in this period because they need to be supplied for several days not to actually go to the store daily. With these amounts, it is simply impossible, and I believe that certain one-time aid that can be paid to their accounts that is known, all their data are known to HZMO. I was also approached by a number of students who worked through a student service, unfortunately a number of them canceled their jobs because they mainly worked at malls, T-centers or something like that, they ran out of that extra income. The additional income focused on the existence of them and their families. It is simple that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has provided every student with 150 euros in the Corona period, I believe that at that moment that money will also be able to withdraw from European funds because we know that we are now funding scholarships, socially affected families from European funds. As for my mother and they have spoken to me, they are particularly concerned about those mothers who are running out of parental leave. Namely, they have young children for over a year, but they simply need to go to work, and they have no one to trust their children with their care because simply kindergartens and schools do not work. I therefore appeal, and I have also appealed to the minister's email to extend this parental leave to three months additional. As for the eu funds, I warned Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic this morning about two decisions taken yesterday at the government, and they concern the suspension of all public calls and all public tenders from all sources of funding. It is that the decision states that a certain part will still be released, but it is left to the Minister of Finance's decision. Since I have been involved in the work of the Government for a while, and I know how my fellow state support colleagues, and there are only a few of them that it is one narrow throat, I would not like to see entrepreneurs waiting again for a year for money from European funds still waiting for a call. What is at this point, which I wish the government had come out and I hope we won't go with the third, fourth, fifth and so on, that we'll go out with one plan and a vision of how and where to invest, where people will need them, which sectors will be supported because what to provide both social services and the health system at this point in the functional and pension system and safe pensions is needed to maintain economic activity. I would also like to say that as far as this economic activity is concerned, there is certainly an opportunity in European funds, I say the European Commission is considering, I think that I have even read to see whether those Member States will even not have to give up their national co-financing, so I hope that if we do so, our Government will get these favourable conditions because it is certain that every kuna in the budget means to us. Here is the call in this reasoning to sound financial management and this, in fact, was an integral part from the beginning, it was part of the Budget Law and simply from the first day of the term of office of the Prime Minister and their members were to be guided by this, it is an obligation from the beginning to the end of the term of office so that there is no need for this explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196471	Thank you. Here's a replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196472	Dear colleagues. I agree with you that pensioners have a hard time living, that they have low incomes, but that also does not free us from the responsibility of interpreting statistics properly. You know, you have one point that in Croatia 95,000 citizens receive a pension of up to 500 kuna, in fact it's true that there are 3,000 of them, and everyone else or lives abroad and for a proportion of the internships receive a pension abroad or live here and from abroad for their proportionate pensions they get part of the pension. Therefore, I agree to tell the truth the way it is, they live hard pensioners have small incomes, but it's just that we throw ourselves so much into the mud that we're no country, I think it's beneath the dignity of representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196473	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196474	Dear colleague Hrelja, I agree, but given the information I received, I received from HZMO and also received an official response from the Minister of Resort. What's standing there is the kind of information I said, so that's what I got. So here I have to say that the Resort Ministry issued such a piece of information with the signing of the Secretary of Resort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196475	Thank you. The next debate is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. He's gone, so he lost his right to argue. Next is the individual debate of the distinguished representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196476	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers, respected ministers, state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. So, given that it is already a late hour debate, I will immediately move on to the thing that seems not good in these measures, otherwise the measures must be taken by themselves because this agency, mentioned by the prime minister in his address this morning, has reduced by 1 degree the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia, but has said one important thing, that the estimate that GDP could fall by 5% points, which means that in some rough RH account it could lose about 50,000 jobs minimally. We don't really know because this crisis has not yet been, and it since 2008, cannot be measured by this crisis because there is a crisis here both on the side of the offer and on the side of demand. So, these measures are necessary to bring, but there is always a problem when measures are being taken, when legal solutions are being passed always with these borders or popular censors, 50% are being mentioned here, and today some MPs have already asked the question of what is the difference between the one who has a 49% downfall and the 51%, this has been administratively cut off in this way, so they will have the rights of larger ones who have a slightly smaller decrease in business. And the second thing, when we talk about 4,000 fees for the monks, for the preservation of jobs, it's not the same and it seems to me that today that the unions have apostropheed it, it's not the same for that worker who's still working and gets 4,000 kunas and the one who doesn't work, and it's going to get the same 4,000 kuna in that sense, because it's questionable whether entrepreneurs will give those workers who work more than what they're supposed to do. So these measures, which today, it has been repeatedly stressed that they amounted to around 9 billion kuna in 3 months, so these are both salaries and contributions, somewhere mentioning the amount from the common European cash register about the same amount as 9 billion kuna and the total value of these measures is estimated at 40 billion kuna. Therefore, it is obvious that some of the money will be missing, a substantial amount, the colleague Shucker said, but the increase in the expenditure side, and the reduction of the revenue side, which is inevitable because we only look at VAT revenues given the tourism sector that will certainly fail, then we expect a significant income deficit. And I personally support these measures, we will probably and in the club support them, just looking for ministers to think about these limits anyway, not to set them fixed, to maybe determine the percentage that part of it is paid to help with the downfall, and about these fees to distinguish those people who work from those who don't. And what I warned the prime minister this morning and I am asking you that there is in the Republic of Croatia a series or group of citizens, that's what my colleague Grbin was talking about, so let's mention the students not only that they, that they can't use these measures, but they are in many here in the trade chains where they are also exposed to the health threat they don't have those raises that regular workers have. Here, now we hear I can't even get travel permits. So students should also be considered because they are not just additional sources of income because many are the only sources of income for study. There are, of course, pensioners who, of course, are mentioned a little bit now, are people who wanted to make extra money, we made it possible for them, at this point they can't do it, they can't make extra money. There are already mentions of sailors, there are people who are now using certain social rights. So, people who had turns, so they shut down, so they're taking fees from the employment office. Now that the fee they're doing now, one man asked me what to do now, 1.4, he gets paid, no more self-employment measures, he's not a man who doesn't want to work, but where he's going to get a job now and how to start this product because it wasn't even before this crisis it was all ideal. So, before this crisis, people were closing down, these coronary crises caused by the coronary virus, closing their turns. So, we welcome these measures, but vulnerable groups in society should be discussed because citizens, as well as banks should enable citizens to refinance their obligations so that we do not also be colleagues of the Grbin right to say and the judiciary to see, that no implementation is carried out at this point because many of the speculatory powers will come to cheap real estate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196477	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196478	Thank you very much. My colleague Sagar, I replicate to you only about one thing and I think all of us MPs in the Croatian Parliament should react in this way. I personally think that what made the rating agency out of their minds is out of line, I don't know how to say it. The moment the whole world shakes, when the world's entire economy is in crisis, someone smart is going now estimating what a credit rating is. Well, wait till the crisis is over, then grade. Or maybe it's going to be on the hands of someone who has money, so countries like Croatia let's tell me that they're a little bit worse than what, so when they're in charge of a little bit of a split, let's say, higher interest rate. So, colleagues and colleagues, I publicly invite you here, let's show this solidarity towards our country, and just like that kind of guys who allow themselves to do such things simply say that they have no right to do so at a time like this when the whole people are fighting and the whole world is fighting this pandemic. They just don't have the right to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196479	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196480	Dear colleague Shuker, I'm glad you said that because you're both a former minister and an economist and you know it's done. It's not in public space sometimes it's not grateful to say so, but it's brave to say that there's an impact on those agencies that they're simply doing this all out of some interest. They have reduced the credit rating and I agree with why they have now done so, at this very moment, they could wait a little while to see what the effects and these measures will achieve, and maybe that's because the government has announced that this refinancing of the business sector's obligations will enable them to survive, so maybe that's one of the reasons that you say interest is shared.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196481	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196482	Dear colleague Sagar, you're right. We are a country with a small, relatively small population on a large surface, and that should be our advantage, to try to organize work wherever we can. Here we all see together that working in a store under restricted conditions, under the circumstances that are allowed to work, that work in banks works, why not organize that the builders of the Istrian Ipsilon work full steam, that the builders of the Peljega Bridge work full steam and access roads and everything else. So wherever you can work without being threatened, people don't group to avoid jeopardizing other people, where you can do it on your own, what does that tractorist in Slavonia bother to be all day long, takes a nice marenda can be plowed all day long and be in the fresh air. Why don't you, in a way, talk about it publicly, give people the more we do, the faster and easier we'll get out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196483	Thank you, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196484	Dear colleagues of Hrelja, you are absolutely right, public sector investment should not be stopped, ministers should see local self-government units currently in the construction phase, whether it is a sewerage, whether it is water supply, to somehow enable that part of co-financing. What we are missing, private sector investments, here is the Minister of Tourism, perhaps it should now be thinking that all those who, despite this crisis in this time when they cannot carry out their primary activity, if they invest and who wants to invest at the moment, but if there are such people who want to invest, and with regard to what counterpart Schuker said might bother someone, and that he wants to prevent it, if the banks would want to follow these people who want to invest now that the state is particularly rewarding them with some measures to express themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196485	Thank you. And the third replica of the distinguished representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196486	In your presentation, you mentioned the people who appear to you and the problems they are. The problem is endless, only now do we see the actual scale of the problems that are. For example, sports clubs report to me, sports clubs have coaches who work with children and are funded by members of parents. No membership fees, no kids, those sports coaches are waiting, waiting for some better times. So here you have a whole group of different problems that are now opening up. I expect what I expect, I expect some government measures that will focus on everything that a society does, which is not just work and work results. So one society is also a culture, and a society, and a sport that we want the day after we all go to work, work and move. I've seen some coaches get organized and some things work on the facebook, but it's not all possible and it won't be all possible. But I expect that April 20 set that will address other problems like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196487	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196488	Dear colleagues, Dark Taritash. So now I see in the debate a man and forget all the mentions that have come forward, people who are dealing with real estate traffic have come to their attention, all their business activity has stopped for a number of reasons. After all, I can't even physically show the real estate because of these measures. What we have to do today, in free speech alone, emphasized it, is a very important education system for us, and we must not play with it. He has far-reaching consequences on this society, and we need to do everything now to bring this school year to an end in a quality way in the sense that no students are damaged, that teachers who are also in a difficult position to do so properly because it will have far-reaching consequences. And maybe to take advantage of the opportunity you gave me with this replica to say today I said in free speech that some countries are thinking about repeating school years, in the Republic of Croatia it can't happen, there's no need for that. I think teachers have done well, but now all we need to do is properly evaluate what the students need, and the state's graduation needs to be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196489	Thank you. Next debate, distinguished representative Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. I find that at 16.47, I conclude this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196490	We move to a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020. The promoter is again the government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as everyone else. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Live Wall Representatives' Club and We Change Croatia, the GLAS Representatives' Club and the Advocacy Club e, and the pardoned representative Ivan Lovrinović. Amendment No. 1st is in Art. 24 years old, Zrinasic, please read yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196491	Yes, compared to Mr. Ivan Lovrinovic's amendment, the amendment is not accepted. The amendment also proposed that non-refundable local self-government units be provided with grants. And the amendment is not accepted for reasons that, at this stage or in the whole world, even in the Republic of Croatia, it is not known how long the crisis will take, nor will its effects on the economy, nor will its impact on the state budget, and because of the sustainability of the state budget itself because of its sustainability, because the funds under the current norm are intended to be given unambiguously on the deadlines required by the units of local self-government. These measures are built, staged, and solidarity and synchronisation in the work of all the components of society is necessary and necessary in order to survive local self-government units and the state budget itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196492	Mr. Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196493	. Secretary of State, again, I am sorry that you did not, that the government did not accept this good amendment that is in the interest of units of local and regional self-government. Why? We all know that these major problems will cause the revenues of local administrations and self-government, municipalities, cities, counties to fall drastically. What's gonna happen? You want to give them an interest-free loan in that time, and when the situation is stabilised, they'll return it. So they're not even in normal circumstances able to finance what they need, they get out of the budget. Therefore, I have proposed on behalf of the Party that we change Croatia to, to abolish the provision that it is a unambiguous loan but to mean their costs, what they will lack in income, to be paid out of the central budget. It's an important, important one decision and I'm watching the mayors, mayors, react now. They will, of course, be satisfied with this only to have such income, and once the crisis is over, they will all let you know more or less that they can't get the money back, but do it now. On the other hand, I call on the Government and the CNB to release all citizens of adult Croatia, so they give it to all full-time citizens and pensioners because they ask me and pay me 4,000 kuna immediately, which is about 10 billion kuna, to maintain our consumption, to keep our demand, and this will have a good impact on the production and preservation of employment. This is what more and more countries in the world do, these days Serbia does too. Let's help our people now, this is about hours of days, we save, we save units of local self-government, but first we save the citizens, it all depends on them. And I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196494	Thank you very much. Please remain, because you have a second amendment to Article 2. Here you go, Mr. Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196495	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted, the amendment is not essentially enforceable in the proposed way, and it is proposed exclusively to be in charge of the domestic market and, above all, of the CNB and it is unambiguous. In accordance with Article 123 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Contracts on the functioning of the EU and Council Regulation 3603/93 shall be prohibited from exceeding the account and all other types of credit with the European Central Bank or with central banks of Member States or national central banks for the benefit of institutions, bodies, offices, central authorities, etc., such as the European Central Bank and national central banks shall be prohibited from buying debt instruments directly from those participants. So, as the proposed amendment is not acceptable because of the EU's operating contract above the Constitution, as you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196496	Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196497	You see, so you refuse that the Croatian state can be in charge of the CNB that is its own. From America, EU countries, Japan, China, etc., the key institution that can save the economy in this situation is the central bank that is with us CNB. If she's going directly, I've asked that the direct state be in charge either indirectly or one or the other, you have to do it, it's going to ruin everything. Therefore, the CNB cannot now protect a stable course and save the economy, some of which must be crucial. It must be crucial to save the economy and citizens. This must be the first objective, and 2, 3, 4 can be price stability or exchange rate. One more thing I'm telling you from here, last week, the British government made a decision that from its central bank directly, the central bank would buy her state bonds of £200 billion. This decision of yours says you do not want to use the sovereignty we still have in monetary terms. We have not accepted the EUR-o, we still have our currency kuna, we have a national bank which unfortunately does not behave as a folk, it does not want to help now in this way. Why? Because borrowing from a central bank costs the state zero percent, but I know what you want. You want everything to go through banks that will continue to peel the state or not the state, but us taxpayers, because they will charge interest. And then for the next few months, you're going to raise taxes, excise taxes, and we're going to have to pay it over our backs. That is why I call on citizens to support those who want to save the Croatian people, the Croatian economy, society, this is the moment when we must show that we are a sovereign country.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196498	Are you asking for a vote? Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196499	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196500	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the Voice, amendment to Article 1. Here you go, Mr. Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196501	Thank you very much. The proposal is heading towards providing the Republic of Zagreb with the resources of a unscathed loan to bridge the consequences of the earthquake. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Government and the City of Zagreb are taking joint activities to tackle the consequences of the earthquake and in this sense, it is in the process of making a special law that will regulate this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196502	Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196503	Thank you very much. I will beg the vote on this amendment. The State Secretary is in his explanation why it is not accepted, was very reasonable in a way that he said goes in terms of a special law, a special law will regulate it, going in terms of the state and the city doing it together, but the Secretary of State is not really that. This special law will have a visible and much debate and it is good to have certain discussions, the Mayor of Zagreb is a very interesting man who acts as if the earthquake in the City of Zagreb was not there. In this way, the GLAS Club wanted one fuse in the state budget to really do something, but unfortunately this is not going in the right direction, it will end in a way that the state will restore its facilities, the city will restore its own, and the citizens will remain at the mercy of individual mechanics or its own opportunities. In this way, the GLAS Club wanted us to have one fuse that really won't happen, so here's the bottom line, as I said and I'm asking the opening vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196504	Thank you very much. Now we have a Live Wall Representative's Club and let's change Croatia, the amendment is to Article 2. Here you go, Mr. Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196505	Thank you very much. The amendment goes in the same direction as Mr Lovrinovic's proposal, concerning the loan from the CNB here, is therefore proposed to be a interest rate not greater than 1%. As such, he refuses for the same reasons as the previous amendment, noting that he would like for the sake of the public to repeat that the amendment proposed is not enforceable. There is no point in the Croatian government's idea not to raise funds on the domestic market or funds that can be obtained from the CNB. Here we went to read the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU which has the status of the Constitution is above our legal norms and here predicts that we cannot and directly borrow, that is what I said, I did not harden, nor will I, that the intention is not to find such funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196506	Here you go, Mr. Damian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196507	Secretary of State, lead the Republic to ruin. You run a borrowing policy, you run a policy that will result in the ultimate poverty of our citizens. You get used to our people gradually to poverty and you give them just enough that you don't have a revolution. You run a policy where a man who's loaded with credits, who's afraid of losing his job, who's got a sword hanging over his head, whether he's gonna pay for the loans and whether he's gonna end up on the street, that man's never gonna rebel. Therefore, you will not accept an amendment to the Living Wall that prevents further foreign borrowing. You will not accept an amendment guaranteeing debt to the CNB, in Croatian currency, our currency with interest below 1%. You take advantage of foreign banks, you take advantage of large-scale capital, which you lend 0.25%, 0.25%. At the same time, you are in debt in the euro and in the dollars and on dozens of times the interest. You're ruining the Republic of Croatia. The debt you create will never be returned and generations of our citizens will have to pay that debt. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196508	Thank you. Thank you very much. And with that, we ended up with the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196509	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 897. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Live Wall Representatives' Club and We Change Croatia, the GLAS Representatives' Club and Agent Ivan Lovrinović. We have held a statement earlier in the session, and we will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. The first amendment is representative Ivan Lovrinovic, the government does not accept him. Please, let's vote. Who's in? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. The amendment of two of the same representatives is not accepted by the government. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to an amendment to the GLASs Club, the government won't accept it. Who's up for the amendment? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to the amendment of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and change Croatia, the government does not accept it. Who's in? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We are now going to vote on the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020. Who's against it? Two. Who's restrained? So are two. And who's in? I'm asking for a result. So it was accepted by the majority of the 126 votes for, 2 abstentions and 2 against and the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 was adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196510	The next item is a set of tourism laws. We've already accepted a united debate here. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Tourism. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Minister of Tourism Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196511	Your Honor, Vice President, Mrs. Assembly MPs and MPs. So we're going to unite this, I'm going to say a few words just to say which major changes are happening in the laws themselves. But I'd say at first, remind myself maybe because I see there's been a lot of conversation in terms of whether tourism is sufficiently provided, not being helped, tourism is specific because we have to look at it horizontally. So the measures that have been taken can practically say 80% of the measures concern tourism itself and help tourism, ranging from 4,000 kuna personal income to all other measures that are mentioned several times today. Evidence that these measures can also be met at this point in most hotel houses and tenants, and this law will change something that will certainly be important for tourist guides. So more segments with what laws are, which are measures that are horizontally affected and satisfied at this point to retain primary labour force and to sort of address the liquidity issue. As for the important things that are certainly beyond personal income and all that is today and the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government for speaking and presenting the laws and measures concerning all, and I say tourism is very important, it is proof that the associations themselves have responded, that the employees themselves have responded and confirmed that at this stage practically everything that has been covered in some way and could have been covered in this second phase. Of course, as the prime minister has already announced, it is still going to prepare measures that will certainly contribute to people who work in tourism, and especially those 108,000 private tenants who certainly expected to take some part of them into some kind of shelter and care for them, regardless of which they are mostly natural persons, but these intentions that were very important and pointed out. So, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tourism Service Act, I may say one of the most important things that not to go yet in detail are technical details. The most important thing about that is the possibility of a voucher, so what we talked about, the possibility of a voucher. So all those who have paid their arrangements that at this point, of course not the agency is brought into a position that we certainly do not want to bring, and that we give opportunities and consumer protection, on the other hand, that if they want to after 180 days for those 180 days, they will get a voucher, after 180 days if they do not want any other trip or other trip chosen, they will be able to get the payment of what they have paid on, so for, for that trip they planned. It was a deal, therefore, with both the sector and the tourist agencies. Let's count that some 6500 employees work in tourist agencies without seasonal staff and that it's very important that these are those small and medium and smaller tourist agencies that may count any time and less than 5 employees. For them, I can say that other than these legal changes we have prepared a credit i.e. I can say that and that it is not a credit card, there will be no interest on them, so we can say liquid assets that will certainly come well to such small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, hotels up to 50 rooms, small agencies, especially some 600 million kunas that we will place, so also give one injection where the Ministry of Tourism will cover the interest rate, so that you will be on 3.g. No interest, no interest. So these are mostly tourist agencies, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, hotels I repeat up to 50 rooms. That's what I say in this part of the Tourism Service Act. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Household Activity Act is certainly the important thing where we will catch up to a large part of all the tenants. So, they had an obligation to those who had registered before 1 September 2007 in terms of categorization, they won't have to, it's been their obligation since this year to go into recategorization, they won't have to go into recategorization this year, we move it practically all by 1.g. So they kind of don't have those obligations. As for the second part of the categorization, it's according to hotels and camps. As you know, everyone else has an obligation, hotels, and every 4 years. to categorize the i.e. The new retegorization or control, let's call it that and we gave them a chance, so in these conditions when they don't and don't have any activities to transfer it to next year and that there are no other costs. In the same way as the facilities that made the request in time for legalisation. However, they have not yet come to receive an answer, i.e. a legalisation solution. They had a temporary opportunity to deal, so rent apartments and rooms. This way we extend the possibility that they can continue to deal with it for the next year until they get regular legalization. As far as the proposal of the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism is concerned, there is one of the important things that we must do in some way, given the current law which says that tourist communities cannot be in debt above 10%, and wages above 40%, they would come in some way and into a problem because they will certainly need funds that are not income-free now because there is no activity, there is no residence tax, these are the largest funds they have from the residence tax, i.e. tourist fees or membership fees. Since these funds... In some ways we are asked to allow them in some way, and in this way ours have agreed that these 313 tourist communities in all have the possibility of, of course, each at the level of opportunity they have, the President will decide that. Councils of the Tourist Community or the Assembly, may, therefore, be in debt and above 10% if necessary, at this time when they have tourist activities that can in some way come to fresh money, liquidity and prepare for the possible step needed for that part of the tourist year if possible. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the Law on Tourist Communities and Part Two as regards the bodies being elected, so within the tourist communities, we would in this way give the possibility because of the special circumstances that are not at this point, because it is practically impossible to implement in 313 tourist communities the choice of the body, so we would put it on the a/a what they would say about this time while the events are those that are, so that the existing bodies continue to work and this way if we accept it as a change, continue to work and have, therefore, the full responsibility they have so far and that after these special circumstances that they have come up again the choices of all the bodies that stand out this year because I simply say it would be impossible to hold elections in 313 tourist communities, councils and all that, so it would be under the new law that we adopted last year in the assembly. So these changes are I'm saying, they simply provide an opportunity for easier business, easier opportunities for the minister in certain segments to react to, say, the height of the residence tax that we'll then edit by regulation. In the meantime, we also brought two regulations to the government a few days ago, but these are two important regulations that sort of release that part of the concession in camps and in tourist settlements and land, tourist land around the hotel. So that's how we gave the possibility through these two regulations that for the first 6 months we practically gave for one kuna i.e. no payment of tourist land concession in camps. As for, for, for, for, for, that part is variable, and for the fixed part to be paid, so until 31 August we extended to 31st November with the possibility that this first part that is variable is that, therefore, there is no payment unless there is any activity in those camps or hotels that have land touristically with this part in the camps being state-owned, and this part that is under the units of local self-government, land around the hotel, of course, is the part that went towards, paying towards local self-government units. So, those two things we've given for now, we've given the possibility that the first part won't be paid at all, as well as this part of the residence tax that we've taken down completely for the first six months. It's when you look at the main beds and extra beds that have entered the new law this year, it's about 164 million pardons for the first 6 months. We will see the basis of the activity in the second part of the year, if necessary, we will release that second part of the year of the tourist tax. That's what I'm saying, the part that's for private renters, and I say it somewhere around 108,000. This is how we looked at covering this whole section in each segment, giving through these horizontal laws the possibility of the liquidity of personal incomes, the possibility of moratories on loans given and one part of the possibility of raising these loans that are unambiguous, which will provide the possibility through the Ministry of Tourism of the first 600 million. And, of course, in further stages, we're going to look at that membership fee that this is, if someone is probably a couple of people already asking that membership option, we're going to put it together in that basket, which would be the parafiscal charge we're talking about these days, and they're definitely going to come up on the agenda, and then when they get to the agenda, there's going to be a question of this membership fee, which will then be in a package of parafiscal duties. Mr. Grbin, you've asked me about whether or not employees can come in, otherwise from next week HZZ will put some new rules, obviously some are already trying to use, unfortunately every law tries to find a model how someone can already use the possibility of putting someone into a 4,000 kuna measure, so in any case it will be possible, but not for this month but for the next month, unless they fire any more workers, they will be able to receive their employees again in the 4th month. And it's also true about what you told me about what he wanted to do if he wanted to see every employee he had received if they didn't fire any of them and he's very welcome and he'll be able to be in those measures. Since Monday, Tuesday is going to be a little bit rougher here because obviously somewhere someone wants to take advantage of a leak, so those measures will be even better protected if I can say so then next week you'll get an even better answer. But at this first moment in this way, I can tell you that it will. Here, Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196512	Thank you, Your Honor. We've got four replicas, the first respected representative of the Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196513	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Minister, you were talking about a residence tax, you were talking about tourist fees or membership fees, but I may have missed it, but I'm not sure I've heard from you, either from Minister Marić, to answer another question which at the moment is extremely tight for our private renters, which is the question of the flat. So, in those March measures, it was possible to postpone the payment of the sheets, but you and I are also aware that, for example, in the second quarter, there was no and there will be no guests, there will be no tourism, there will be no income. My question to you is, are we gonna go further with the sheets off, first for the second, and then I'm probably afraid for the next quarter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196514	The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196515	Thank you very much, Vice President. So in the first three months, there have been some activities as well, because the results also say in the nights and arrivals of tourists, so 1st, 2rd, 3rd month, we'll see what it is, but in any event, it will be considered 4th, 5th and 6th and further if there is no activity of course that will be discussed very seriously. I personally said where no kuna was earned wouldn't be logical if we were to charge a tax. Therefore, in any case and this will be discussed, so far it is possible to postpone payments. For the first three months I'm saying we've had results that are about 30% down, but surely your proposal and the proposal that applies to these things will certainly be well considered and will be in the direction where there has been no activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196516	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196517	The Honorable Ministers. It's absolutely clear that you need to come with a set of laws to adapt certain things to the extraordinary circumstances that have arisen from the crown of the virus. But we seem to have a series of things in the GLAS club that have nothing to do with the coronary virus. I ask you a concrete response to the Household Activity Act, where you are related to the catering activity in the households, to introduce a provision that, in exceptional circumstances, the Minister can therefore prescribe certain actions in the case of categorisation or the conditions to be given. Why the deviation? What's it about if it's a coronary virus and people can't even get there? What do you need this provision for? That provision may take you a day later to have some deviations when you start working that they have, but it has nothing to do with this threat that's with you. So I'm asking you nicely that it was the idea of a promoter through that provision that was added to you. 41.a.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196518	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196519	The deviations were in retegorization just like I said they didn't have to retegorize the objects. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196520	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196521	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I have a few questions that are of a technical nature. So in the first set of laws, we've seen a lot of companies in the tourism sector that will apply for certain measures, I'm interested in how to valorize and evaluate those companies, and in your sector there are a lot of them that started working 1.5 or 1.7 last year. So they won't be able to enter these categories of 20 and 50% traffic since they don't have a reference period. The other thing I'm curious about is whether it's been thinking about the government and these people who ended up in the last few weeks on the stock market, getting them back into the system in a way that these 4,000 kunas are recognized and that people can finally re-apply to their companies, so there's a lot of these unsaid things. What bothers me, too, is that you have been thinking more about how to make up for the tourist community's money, rather than freeing the membership fees in the long term, for example, from the Croatian company of the tourist community, that would mean a lot more to them in the future as regards reduced parafiscal burdens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196522	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196523	Dear Parliamentarian Maras, I just said about the tourist membership fee that it is going as a parafiscal imposition and it will as such be in a package of parafiscal intrusion. That's why we didn't take it into consideration now, otherwise she would certainly be here today and we would have discussed it in a similar way as we discussed the tourist tax, so the same approach would be. So, we're just waiting for this package that will be parafiscal burdens and it will be in that package certainly in a certain way solved because, of course, if there was no activity of course, there will certainly not be a bigger problem of thinking about whether or not it should be cut. So that part of me personally in that direction I made a proposal, so that's what's going to happen. As for those employees you said about last year's companies in the 5th month, we'll take a certain average and they'll consider the same. So it won't work out, for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196524	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196525	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, it is known that every 6 kuna is earned in Croatia in the catering and tourism sector. It's not the sector's fault in itself, and I wish it was much more in absolute numbers or absolute amount earned in tourism, but of course other industries are growing much more and better. We of the GLAS Club will have some objections to some of the solutions that you have proposed here because we believe that in this situation, quality should not be undermined in our sleep. So we have to do everything to make our tourism and hospitality even better, even better capacitated with a higher level of tourist service after this crisis. For years, tourism and hospitality as a branch have actually held both left and right remains of Croatian industry and agriculture. Now that this branch is in a major crisis, for example in Istria, which generates 30% of the tourism incomes for these people and hands and feet, they've held us above water for years, and they've actually produced one product that we're famous for. That's why you need to keep quality as high as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196526	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196527	Thank you very much. I totally agree, I didn't want to today because it's not even time to discuss the results last year's results, but since it came out yesterday, the day before yesterday from the National Bank, the CNB score for last year's financial year, so 11% more income than 2018, so the best result ever, I say, is hard to talk about these results because as you see very rarely and I don't mention it anywhere, but most importantly that last 3 months last year we had a 34% increase in income. So we speak 10th, 11th and 12th months, so we have definitely come to the fact that Croatian tourism has been an entire year of tourism, not more tourist peak of the season. It should also be reminded when it is said that in the first 3 months, we are making 5% of the tourism income, in the first 6 months we are accomplishing about 27% of the total, the first 6 months, and that way we will need to watch when we talk about all these measures, always be of when, as it was realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196528	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Now let's go with the club stand. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Bozo Petrov. He doesn't have the right words to lose. The second reported is the Live Wall and SNAGE Representatives' Club, Ivan Lovrinović, also lacks it, loses the right. The third is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, Marin Škibola, and he's not here either. She's next in line for the GLAS Representatives Club, the distinguished representative of Anka Dark Taritash, she's here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196529	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers and State Secretary, we have four laws and four amendments to the law. Tourism is an extremely important branch. What we've been showing all this time, and that's the trouble, the nemano or everything that happened to us with the coronary virus, has shown that it's not good that we're just hanging out on tourism. The Corona virus actually made it first, that great nemesis did the damage to tourism first. I am deeply hoping that it will not last long and as we are known as the destination so-called. I hope that this summer will at least be partially saved. What the minister said in response to his colleague, Beus Richembergh, which is that we were able to achieve a few things. If tourism wasn't just defined by the summer months, we really have a whole year and we managed to achieve one thing that is extremely important, which is the level of tourism. We were a country that was characteristic of offering the beach, a towel on the beach and accommodation. It turned into something else. It takes a lot of work, a lot of effort, a lot of engagements. Let's not let one move make it easy for us to give it up. We really have to take care of the day after, we can't afford to ruin what we had the day after. I absolutely understand that the crown has caused great confusion about tourism. The confusion in hotels, therefore in hotel accommodation, as well as confusion and private accommodation, so it was common practice to settle during winter, arrange individual private accommodation and wait for who's stuck on Easter rifle, so with Easter which is this year's 12th April, which is a good date, starts. Everything's changed. No one expected that this would happen, things will certainly change when it comes to tourism in the City of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb is really late, and from here when you leave there is almost no house in which it does not say that it has any apartment. This may make it easier for other things, it may cheap rent apartments in the City of Zagreb, but it is another topic. So language knowledge, this even this experience we've decided ok, maybe it's really our problem but that language knowledge that someone deals with tourism without language knowledge, I'm afraid it won't work. And the fourth law that is the Household Activity Act. Everything where you extend deadlines, where you give people the opportunity to really not go crazy about categorizations right now, is absolutely acceptable to us. But what I told you in the replica, which is next. You added article 41a. which has the title of carrying out catering activities and providing catering services in the household and on the family holding under special circumstances. Let's try to understand, if the conditions are special circumstances, and that's the crown, there's no one there to provide anything because it's forbidden for anyone to provide anything in terms of tourism and hospitality. When the threat ceases they will continue to work according to what they were before, the categories will continue to apply to them, they will have a deadline to extend the categories, they will have a deadline to adapt which is absolutely legitimate. You have to give them the opportunity to really people in all of this situation that they're not in the crazy yet, and now I have to turn in a request somewhere. The example is, just to make one comparison, so who has nothing to do with you having to do with the law we discussed before, that was the accounting law where all accounting was freaked out because they had to hand over something to Finni by a certain date and they were absolutely freaked out, and now through this amendment of the law is an extended date which is okay. But for someone who can't right now because of the threat that we're putting this law into practice, you're bringing in article 41a. which shall be authorised by the Minister to, with the prior consent of the Minister of Fire, because you do not dare to do so, and the area of health shall prescribe derogations. What do we need these deviations for? These deviations or you need them all the time, so you will have it all the time, but for now you don't need deviations when you can't even do it during the crown, what will prescribe for you the deviations of someone who doesn't work. So, here, okay, you're going to have a chance to explain in the final word what it's about, you're going to have a chance, we've already given these amendments and you're going to have a chance to say in the explanation of the amendment that maybe we misunderstood something that I can, absolutely let us understand something wrong, but this way that it's written is absolutely unacceptable. Let me conclude my argument. We absolutely need to keep an eye on this entire tourism sector that we've been hanging out on so that he can get to work as soon as possible, the day after. At the moment he's able, the day after he starts working, we have to allow them both left and right to really work, because they, they're the fastest to adapt to some new conditions, and they, if they adapt to some new conditions and something starts, we can have some good situations. But in doing so, we can't cover up that unfortunate, unknown, some kind of virus that's come out of nowhere, turned into the neman who's ruled this world in this situation, we can't do everything we've done well so far, you can do well, you know, it says you're doing well, and then by one false move you fall down, we can't make that wrong move because then we're not going to solve that wrong move for six months or a year, we're going to solve it for the next 10 years. In that sense, we at the GLAS Club have made amendments to each of these four amendments and amendments. These amendments, of course, we wanted to limit some things that are exclusively related to the crown, we pointed to some things that we don't think should happen and depending on your attitude towards these amendments will also be our position regarding the vote. All that you in the tourism sector will help us to move faster and better, you will get absolutely whatever we are, the opposition party, we belong to a group of those small parties, but that's what we call ourselves, we're pretty loud and we're trying to be pretty loud and pretty reasonable and we think good decisions should be supported regardless of and reasonablely explained, but I don't want to be here, I've called it cowardly eggs going through some things that we'll have some damage and then we won't be able to get rid of for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196530	Thank you. The next debate is the esteemed representative of Anton Kleman on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196531	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I welcome Mr. Minister and Secretary of State, all colleagues and colleagues in charge of this agenda debate. First of all, I would like to commend the government's efforts and the measures it proposed in a horizontal sense, so that we all try with as little damage as possible to get out of this crisis, which is really so deep that we can't see it ourselves, its proportions and I think that the government has done a great job with this move, interacting with the interested public in the first place with employers, workers, with unions and has taken measures that seem to me to give a good perspective to the Croatian economy to come out of this really demanding situation with as little damage as possible. In any case, and these measures taken by the Government concern both employees and employers and in the tourism sector which I would say may be the most affected and the hospitality of course, I would say that it is the most affected by this crisis and, as such, I think, through these measures which we will now comment on and which we will look back on that it must be given a chance, therefore to the entire tourist and catering sector that, after the end of this crisis, it can retake its role in the Croatian economy as soon as possible, and it will not change in my court very long, the tourism activity will still be a peri-performing of the Croatian economy, and therefore we must really help the tourism to get into shape as soon as possible to carry out its tasks. This, these proposals for the laws proposed by the Ministry of Tourism, indeed have a purpose, have a purpose and are a good contribution to these horizontal measures of the Croatian Government and I would say that, that one common part of the efforts of the Croatian Government to stabilise the economy and to provide it under these conditions and to provide one perspective after the end of this crisis. So, this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tourism Act, I think it has well defined some things that should have been defined, and that is, first of all, this novel to prevent advertising and to reduce one presence to legal owners, so those who use themselves to advertise themselves through social networks and portals, that practically in a gray economy they take cakes to those who are registered legally and who pay their obligations, and it is very good to now define that in such ads, the highlighted identification number of service providers, i.e. VAT numbers, so that the less they are grabbed in this gray, black zone. This about erasing the terms of foreign languages and knowledge of Croatian language to a extent, etc., will probably explain it in the final word and State Secretary or Minister. So, there is a thing that will be put about these months ahead of us, however, I would like to touch one of the measures which, in principle, is good, and this is about traveling package arrangements under special circumstances due to unrealised travel where it is arranged in a way that puts the moratorium to an end of the contract for 180 days from the end of the special circumstances. And agencies can offer vouchers that will be secured by insurance policy and thus protect consumer rights. Here I think that maybe this measure should be extended because it is not only about travel agencies, but you know that there are many direct contracts and advance payments and which hotelers directly, so there were payments of direct arrangements to congress tourism that are being delayed, so the advances are already on the accounts of our companies, hotelers, in the camps too, renting camps. In private owners via booking.com, if you will, etc., etc., etc. and I think that this measure should be extended in a way to cover other than travel agencies and these service providers in tourism and that these same vouchers as a refund, as a means of repaying money, are used to do so from 1.3 to 15.9.2020, in particular, on cancellations, if during that period, that the vouchers are issued with a duration of up to 31.12.2021. So, the whole next year where the guest can use it for his services or some others, as the minister said. Or at that time to get his funds back. Already some EU members, in particular, France, have put this regulation in the legal process and it will be very interesting if it is useful, if this measure is accepted by us, because it is very important to relax the financial portfolios of our companies so that they can get through this crisis as painlessly as possible, and I will tell you from some estimates, that it is approximately now, that there should be a return of about 80 to 100 million euros, so in return for money, so here, the minister to look at this possibility, I think it would be very useful for these providers as well, such as hotelers, campers and private tenants, to enable them because we have already made a good decision in these horizontal measures, and these are the moratories on credit payments, etc., so not to burden them with this situation yet, it is an extraordinary situation and it would be good to respect it. As far as these laws are concerned, therefore, the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Attending Activity, this is indeed all commendable, this about recategorising hotels, camps, marinas and facilities in private accommodation, very good, reasonable, I think it's really to welcome these measures and it's quite ok. As for this previous law, let me just say that it is very commendable that you have entered this situation, therefore, about providing tourist guide services to the Central Register, that you have solved this, it is indeed a good, good decision that should remain permanent in that whole story further in the legislative proposal. Here, you'd replicate it in some way and your colleague Taritash, if it were a member's parafiscal imposition, and the residence tax isn't a parafiscal imposition, so we should make a clear distinction, and I would say that, as far as private tenants are concerned, that we've already cut off 50% of the pausals, the residence fees for the first six months and here, and I'd say, I'd like to commend the minister that he's been communicating all along, we'll see what happens to business in tourism in the next period, it's a very good approach. If there's no business, there won't be any payment, if we all get it right, and I think we are. small, small entrepreneurs, craftsmen, micro entrepreneurs who simply don't know how this crisis survives and how they can deal with certain costs. So much more important information for them is whether someone for example who founded the company or arranged the apartment last year at 9. The month and de facto does not have a reference period in relation to what Minister Maric has offered today, whether he too will be able to achieve certain benefits, whether HBOR will lend loans to people to endure this season that will not be and whether these funds will be able to use in terms of employment in terms of possible someone to take advantage of that period for some other things and whether they will have a perspective in some way that when they start working again in a normal way. These are the answers that they are plagued by and to which we should get an answer today, that is what the citizens are interested in. We are aware of how much this branch of the economy will be affected, I will not be particularly catastrophic, but we are all aware when Minister Bozinovic says that measures or Minister Beros will be taken when they say the course of measures will be analysed whether they will be abolished at 6. It is very difficult for the moon to assume that after the measures have been lifted here in a month our hotels and our apartments will be full. It is likely that this season will be very long and therefore it is very important to come up with measures to survive until the next full tourist season, which will start at 2nd, 3rd month next year. That's what we expect from the Croatian government and that's what we want to see. On the other hand, we can discuss, for example, the parafiscal burdens that I asked the minister here, one or two laws are linked to certain fees and tourist membership fees, but not in a way to free the companies of tourist memberships, but to see how the tourist community survives this year when they will not have the income they have had in recent years. And the amendment of the law is correct to allow them to simply keep people in one place, they will probably rationalise themselves in some part and as far as pay goes because we expect it from the whole state and absolutely starting with the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the measures must be applied as soon as possible because if some people remain without income overnight, if they have no salaries, one part of Croatia cannot act as if nothing is happening. So we expect and ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to measure this type as soon as possible, although I am aware of how important it is to keep some normal consumption in Croatia and to balance certain things because nothing is achieved by making total consumption go down, but we have to think about being rational. And on this side, I expect this crisis to be used for a full review of parafiscal burdens, complete revision and tourist membership, both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and to see if this concept is "very much of the institutions" that help a strong economy, and in general, this assistance is usually very small or none of which I mean the tourist communities that work for their cities. I know a lot of people who do a lot of good work, but for example, the Chamber of Commerce is a completely useless organization, and if we come out of this crisis, we still have a mandatory membership fee for the Chamber of Commerce, we have sent one of the worst messages from the public sector to the economy and to our citizens. So, on this side, we need to do a full review of the parafiscal burdens and I expect it in the way that these measures come in to discuss what we can now, not during the crisis, but to end forever, forever, the obligation to pay certain parafiscal duties and certain duties that are related to the monumental rent, perhaps towards the economy and certain burdens that are linked to the general use of the forest. So these are the things we need now when we are able to talk about everything that needs to be seen now and try to lay the foundations that the economy when the crisis ends can move forward as soon as possible. And that's what I think is supposed to be the main message from these discussions, and I'd like Croatian citizens to hear it from here, hear what we're thinking, what we want to do, what we're going to do right now, what's useful and what we're going to insist on in the end. I am sorry, and I ask you, Mr. Vice President, to tell the President of the Croatian Parliament that Croatian citizens do not listen, regardless of whether 40 people or 4 or 6 are irrelevant here, it is important that our citizens hear our views and hear what is offered in these laws. In particular, I said these four laws, as regards the Law on Supplements to the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism, I can say here that I understand the intensity that I support that the tourist communities are being maintained in some way, but I would also like the Croatian government to think about kindergartens in local self-government units. So we're thinking about tourist communities, and we're not thinking about kindergartens in local self-government units because cities no longer have income because children don't go to kindergarten and have income and can't, especially smaller financial powerful cities can't stand the full payout level and the question is how it's going to survive all the time. It's one school where salaries go from the state budget, but kindergartens don't have that option. On the other hand, the incredible situation in the town of Zagreb where it is late and there is no payment for private-owned kindergartens, where children go to the same as kindergartens, because there is not enough room. So it's something that's amazing that the government doesn't talk about it. So we remembered the tourist communities right away, and maybe I don't know in some town or municipality of 10 or 15 employees if it's bigger, if it's less 2-3, but the kindergartens in that municipality and the city don't remember, and there's also people who are going to have to start dealing with our children again tomorrow, raising our children, etc., and I'd like to say that the government is thinking a little bit wider, and when you give me this law in front of me right now, I have to mention it right now. The same thing is with the tourist tax, these things are not of crucial importance or I think anything would happen that we have not passed this law or the tourism service law that defines, I mean even a little strange and sounds, says the Covid-19 epidemic has been declared and is now being introduced to everything else and says then one of the key measures, i.e. the first measure of eradicating the terms of foreign language knowledge to the extent sufficient to carry out the job of the head of the tourist agency, and the work experience of 1 year. I think since the tourist agencies are not working at all at this point, I highly doubt that someone will consume this measure. So here we can do an analysis after 3 months or half a year, I doubt that now someone is going to resolutely consume this measure and it's going to mean something to him in life. A much more important measure is whether these tourist communities will be able to keep employees of these 4,000 kunas we talked about earlier, whether the tourist community will now, let's say, in this part, in this part, it won't be me, because everything will have income less than 50%. I'm more inclined to write off contributions and taxes at the level of 30% or 20% of this because I think it should be the intensity to try to help a part of the company maintain business, not that now someone who has a 40% income thinks whether it's more worth reducing income 10% and entering into the full government measure, I think we should lower that level so much we don't motivate people and somehow make them try, although they do it on their own, to try to maintain business. So here I wanted to, and I'm going to end up mentioning that this part of the law is not going to be crucial to the large part of the tourism sector. It will be important for the tourist communities, I support it. I say and appeal once again that the Minister through the Croatian Tourist Community will try to agree and see how they will survive that they will now not be fully burdened for some coming years with loans that will be only for the cold drive of this one, but I would rather talk here about HBOR's loans, we would rather talk here about how this sector will survive from today real 7, 8 months will probably not be or will be minimal if the situation is normalised in Croatia, the season will be as weak, it is not expected that some people will start travelling quickly. The most important thing is to hold out until next year. And that's what we need to talk about here, and hopefully, when the next set of measures comes, we'll have more information on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196532	Thank you, dear representative Maras. The next debate is on behalf of individual requirements, Nikola Grumoja, the distinguished representative, is not there to lose his right. Next reported is Miro Bulj, and he has no right to lose. The next is Commissioner Branko Juričev Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196533	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, we consider this package a good, encouraging and appropriate moment. Tourism contributes, contributed to the recognition of the Republic of Croatia, accounted for almost a fifth of Croatia's GDP, and is now one of the most affected branches and the economy sector. In addition, it should not be forgotten that many other activities and sectors are currently relying on tourism. It is therefore necessary to remove and mitigate this economic disturbance and make it easier to bridge this period. This is the biggest crisis since the Homeland War, and the big problem is we don't even know how long this is gonna take. So with the first set, the first package of measures helped the economy with 30 billion kuna and we hear that to date we have over 66,000 entrepreneurs who have applied for this measure by saving over 400,000 jobs. Most are now referring to the tourism sector. On 19 March, the work of catering facilities of all categories and accommodation services was suspended, and on that very day, the Croatian Parliament adopted 63 measures or a package of laws with 63 measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to save and preserve jobs and secure salaries for almost all economic restours. For tourism, the possibility of delaying the payment of the tourist membership fee, postponement or release of payment of the tourist tax is also prescribed, and different support is provided for the financing of crafts and the improvement of liquidity, as well as a delay in the payment of fees for the use of concessions on tourist land in campsites. A little while ago, a colleague named Peja Grbin asked what was wrong with the cobwebs. On March 23rd, a rule was adopted which reduces the flat-rate tourist tax by 50% and releases tourist fees for all extra beds for this year for people who provide catering services in the household or OPGs, and thus only small tenants who currently have 108 thousand are charged for 164 million kuna. This second set of measures proposes to amend 4 tourism laws where it wants to recharge both the financial and administrative tourism sectors, preserve jobs, secure liquidity. So we have a supplement of the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism, where the Government allows 313 tourist communities, as far as we have in the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Tourist Board, which are the holders of tourism development, to be financially indebted which can be more than 10%, of course, with the consent of the tourist council, president and guarantee of the unit of local self-government, and gives the possibility that even in the coming year the costs for the salaries of employees are more than 40% of the income of the tourist community. The tourism tax law allows the government to regulate different issues related to the amount of tourist tax as well as payment deadlines, purpose and method of distribution through the regulation. The government will therefore continue to monitor the development of the situation and react, if necessary, and we already have announcements from the finance minister, that aid will go to our citizens themselves in the coming period. The law on the provision of services in tourism, i.e. the amendment and addition of this law, changes the outcome of a solution on the authorisation to provide services with only a solution to meet the conditions and we have far simpler and easier conditions. I would not agree here with GLAS's Club of Representatives but I would say that this is exactly the help and the employees, the students and the pensioners to further make their incomes, and also the unemployed, so that under easier conditions, they can achieve an incentive for self-employment. Travel agencies also need according to signed contracts, now instead of returning money to enable vouchers to travellers and within 180 days or offer them some other routes, if they can't use it or don't want it, then they'll just get the money. So after this, there's no financial burden on all travel agencies that they have to go immediately with unrealised contracts. In the case of amendments and additions to the Household Activity Act We've heard we're going to an extension... [[Intruder: Time.]] Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196534	You have replicas, so you will. The first replica of the distinguished representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196535	Here's Mr. Juricev-Martinchev. Tell me, you mentioned companies, you mentioned now and the catering activity, in which way, in your opinion, from this measure we heard today and from Minister Marić and Minister Cappelli, in which way the state will be appointed and in which the molds will be molded by those who, for example, start working in the 5th month. Last year? So there are these, before the season they started, they opened their own locals, and when they compare traffic, they won't have all year, it won't be possible to compete at all with each other, and probably, if they're 3, 4 months. Last year they didn't work, they had zero traffic. So that's where they won't be able to show that their traffic dropped 50 percent and more. So there's a big hole for a serious part of the entrepreneurs that exists in the Republic of Croatia, and I don't think they've thought about it in the government, and I'm now appealing that maybe until the vote, that the government should have some amendment or ministry until Tuesday's vote to try to fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196536	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196537	A colleague of Maras. Well, I would also point out that this very package of laws and the whole package of measures is praised by and here, the Dalmatian entrepreneurs today who praise them, and then the Chamber of crafts, the Tourist Guides Community, all praise this package of measures, but a lot will be harmonised and prescribed by regulations or government regulations. A lot of freedom has been given to deal with right in the walk when some specific problems are encountered.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196538	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196539	Thank you very much, dear colleague Juričev-Martinchev. I'm interested in your attitude about one thing, I haven't seen it, I may have missed something, but we have the following situations, so we have people who are already last year, they have permanent guests, so they have 2, 3 apartments in their own house, they have permanent guests, and they've already taken some advances from them, now to say maybe a full amount for this season. They'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll... How did you think, your thinking, what would happen to them, they'd have to pay back at some point what de facto they wouldn't have? What is thinking and what is going to be done or are some kind of deadlines or something? I get a little attached to these vouchers and these 180 days and all together because if they're not going to be tourism, it won't be enough for 180 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196540	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196541	Well, colleagues of Anka Mrak-Taritash, well what you said, with travel agencies is foreseen, if you don't realize the contract that you can use the voucher within 180 days, the payment directly to the tenant, that's rare, I'd say, it's kind of a loan, it's probably some long-term guest with whom you already have half-friend relations, so it'll sort of be handled in private. What the Government of the Republic of Croatia can do, is exactly what the Ministry of Resort does, that 50% of the pausals freed them, delayed certain payments and other payments, and we expect if this time is not certain until when this is all going to last, it also releases additional fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196542	Thank you. And the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196543	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev, I hope I may have been a little clumsy in the expression when I spoke, but it seems to me that the minister fully understood me. When I was talking about the cobwebs, I was thinking about the income tax. So the income tax rate remains unresolved, we addressed these other problems and it's good that we did. However, our private tenants remain income tax rates and the same visa would be for what the minister was saying, no one talks about the first quarter, it's over, we're talking about the second quarter. The fact is that now with Easter, our tenants were expecting the beginning of the tourist season, the fact is that it will not be, the announcements say that the earliest in early June will begin with the reduction of measures, which says that the second quarter is lost and I think that it is already necessary to send a clear message that the second three months when we talk about income tax will not be charged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196544	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196545	Dear Grbin, it is true that the tourist tax, the cot has been reduced by 50% or to extra beds should not be paid at all for this year. That tax, or the cobweb you're talking about, is determined by the local self-government unit. As the Government of the Republic of Croatia has therefore been expected to meet its owners, and the tenants are expected to do so by local self-government units so that municipalities or cities can reduce or release them in a certain percentage.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196546	Thank you, Your Honor. The next individual debate of the distinguished representative Goran Aleksic, he is gone. Then we have the next individual debate of the esteemed Mr. Gordan Maras who is now entering.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196547	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry to keep you waiting, if I could sit on one of these free chairs, it wouldn't have happened, but you can see how tough the rules sometimes don't know life. So, so, let me say a few more things about concrete suggestions. I also have to react to my colleague, Branko, who just talked about how Hook supported her. I mean it's clear, they've supported the first measures. These are professional supporters of this proposal from the government of Mr. Plenkovic. And Mr. Ranogajac, former HDZ mayoral candidate in Krapisko-Zagorje County and Mr. Burilovic, former HDZ City Council president in Vinkovci and HDZ president in Vinkovci, means they cannot be expected to have criticism as has occurred from hundreds and tens of thousands of entrepreneurs in, in a group on facebook that has become the main articulator of this and the group that most articulates the demands of entrepreneurs and thus in these few weeks have fought for a status that, and the influence that HGK and HOK will never have because of what they unfortunately serve in this way but serve as one political incubator who has lost its meaning. I'm talking about HOK, some chambers, county and city work a little bit more quality, and for HGK, it's really hard to find out where they deal with less politics and more, more, more economics. Most politicians gave it at local or state level. I said Burilovic was very highly positioned in HDZ and defacted by HDZ there as president. So, I'd like to try to bring these measures together, and I support, after all, that we're taking these measures, we're a little late with them, but they're a lot more quality than they were first, but it's still not something that's going to get some special rewards. Most of these measures support and propose all other countries in the EU as well. When you look at it, it's really nuances and there's not much wisdom to do. The state should be in charge of preserving the economy, the point and the jobs and that as soon as the crisis stops, we continue with normal life and economic activity. So that's all the wisdom in this story. Whether it will be from domestic reserves, whether it will be from international reserves, whether Europe will issue so-called. The corona of bonds that the less developed countries have and which are more affected by the crisis, and not for those countries like Germany that are the most economic strongest in the EU, we will see that I hope that Europe will show solidarity and that, ultimately, after this crisis, we will say to Croatian citizens here you see that it is good that in this society, that in 2008 at least we were in that society, we would have returned to some economic flows much earlier than we had come back on our own until we were part of a larger economic community. So I expect the government to be there very effectively, not to be bureaucratized. I watched yesterday a statement from the head or minister of finance of the United States who said that entrepreneurs would get direct incentives, I also expect from the government, perhaps in the form of HBOR credit to a certain amount, if used for employment it would not be necessary to return in the next period, that incentives to small and medium-sized enterprises would be paid in two weeks, he also said yesterday that they had prepared such incentives that all 30 million small and medium-sized enterprises in America would be able to apply for it and that in two weeks they would pay the money. This is what Croatian companies need with this guarantee of employment at the moment, they need some money to survive by next year, next tourist season. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196548	Thank you to Honoring Representative Maras. The next debate is the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196549	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and Vice President of the Parliament, worthy civil servants and ministers. Here I think you should get an "A" from the pawn and then answer me in the final word, I only have two questions, and that's why I answered the debate. First, it concerns local self-government units in tourist areas, so it is generally local self-government units on the coast that were obliged to complete their construction work by 31st of May so that they can prepare themselves for the season. Now it is relatively clear that this season will be somewhat worse than many last season there until wartime and it is also a fact that given this seasonality that the works have already begun, and that units of local self-government have a reduced inflow into their budget by about 90%, and the question of what they will have in relation to last summer and it is evident that they will not be able to pay for these construction works that they have so far. So, my proposal is and here I am asking you to consider, and preferably to show yourself, that these units of local self-government are allowed not to write off but to raise a loan from the HBOR with a start of a year so that they can pay for what I can't pay right now. Because otherwise what can happen? They can be implemented, if they don't have an inflow of funds, but possibly from eu projects, they can get that part done, and then we'll have a double problem, so they won't have funds for eu projects, they won't have revenue from the budget and they won't be able to function at all. So, if that part could be loaned or loaned with a start of a year when the thing is normalized for them to bridge it back, my proposal is to make it possible for them to do so. And here's what I'd like to ask, and your opinion will be on a proposal like this, or one that would have that intensity, so that some loan can be used to bridge this time of income. And secondly, as far as all local self-government units are concerned, that's what I was saying the day before yesterday, when it comes to public lighting, to allow them at some point from HEP a preferential price for public lighting. So we've got empty streets, we've got dark streets that might show up as a demographic measure, but I don't think that's how it would be. Therefore, to see with HEP that units of local self-government can thus meet to give some preferential price that would only last during this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196550	Thank you to Honorable Representative Bauku. Replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196551	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, you have said and mentioned certain units of local self-government, but I am sure the minister also knows that because he is moving in his sector that there are very many companies, craftsmen, private persons who are in charge of this period to prepare their apartments, catering facilities all that is needed for the season to start and to be able to do business in some way. So I think it's very important and necessary to ensure that these people are provided directly with moratorium banks on loans, and I think it would be right for the HBOR to enter unambiguously for a year until the next season starts and that people are helped in this way. And if they keep employees for a period of three months after this three-month measure expires, even that part of their loan and the payments to the employees will be reduced. We have to think about it, there's a lot of people like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196552	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196553	I don't think I'll surprise anyone if I say I agree with you. There I would set one criterion, which is, for example, the Minister of the Interior, describing these restrictions on movement, which are essential jobs. So, the fact is that at this point, people who are in charge expect it justifiably will be able to recover their duties from the tourist season which will obviously be something weaker this year or will be totally weak, to allow them to return this year and that's it. So as people are limited to business, economic activity and movement for something that is not necessarily necessary, it is necessary with a moratorium for such things as we like to formulate it was not known or could not be affected to allow people to live a normal life and to overcome that year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196554	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196555	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. So what I was also talking about in the replica of the Honorable Mr. Minister, what has been repeated through the replica of a respected colleague is something that at this moment extremely torments private renters. Of course getting rid of paying a flat tax on the income of a small tenant won't save you, that's a fact. We don't have to fool ourselves and say it's going to be a rescue measure. However, the fact is that we have recently raised, we have raised or by law increased the classes of flat-rate income tax and extended them to extra-beds, thus creating for small tenants this year a far higher tax burden than it was in earlier years, and they do not have income. The delay measure has worked well so far, which is at least for the information that I have, almost everyone, if not everyone's request for a delay they've accepted, and that's fine. However, I will repeat once again, it is clear that the income in this quarter, which is before us in the second quarter of 2020, will be completely left behind. Tourism is gone, the borders of the Republic of Croatia are almost completely closed, movement between local self-government units is prohibited. If there is no movement, if you from Zagreb cannot come to Crikvenica then there is no tourism. Postponing okay, but only until it's written off. And that decision must be made by the Parliament because it is simply a commitment arising from the Article. 57. Income tax law. Art. 57th units of local self-government were only allowed to determine in the amount of 150 to 1,500 kuna the amount of which would be the flat-rate, but it was prescribed by the Parliament. The parliament has imposed the obligation to pay that tax and only the Parliament can end it by its decision, unless the Government suggests it is quite clear that it will not happen. And that's why I'm appealing to you, there's time precisely for this delay, and there's time for us to do it as soon as possible. However, not only the income tax, the income tax was not the subject of an increase in the past years. I spoke more publicly about this, in 2018, we had two years in a row in 2018 and for 2019 an increase in the tourist tax, although in previous years the tourism community's income at the state level grew from home income by more than 20 million kuna per year. So the tourist communities at this point have at least had to have if they had any, but had the wise management of the money that was coming to them with supplies. Why does it matter, because at some point when this crisis is over, and Croatia will have to immediately seek its place on the tourist market. We have certain comparative advantages for other countries, while Croatia can be reached by motor vehicle, you can choose a much easier journey to Croatia than in Tunisia, for example, or another overseas country. Therefore, I appeal to the Ministry to prepare a crisis communication programme that will be ready at the moment when the measures are released, not only in Croatia, but also in other countries for activated so that the Croatian tourist product is further advertised in the broadcasting markets. In this way we will ensure that what is saved from this tourist season is saved that, but this should be considered already, we should start preparing videos, we should find markets on which we will advertise more strongly and should be ready that when the recovery train starts we will be the first in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196556	Thank you to the esteemed representative of the coat of arms. Minister, do you need something final? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196557	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's a few questions you're still here to answer. So we have income tax. a flat tax ranging from 150 to 1,500 kuna, which determines the height of the unit of local self-government. That flat tax we delayed payment, that's one thing. The second pauser is a tourist tax or tourist fees however we want to, however we understand it, it is also a flat-rate and it also determines its height, so we decentralized it and determined a private accommodation package determines the units of local self-government and the price fixed for the hotel means by tourist when the salary comes at night. For the first six months, we have wiped out practically, and it will not be paid for 108,000 private renters and it is deleted for the first 6 months and will not be paid. Paushal, the third pausal which is the third one is the membership fee, so the third one is the membership fees that I just said they will go into a package of parafiscal duties. So we can regulate it by regulation to be one kuna, let's say, when it comes to always talking about private renters. At this point, we put membership aside because it is treated practically as a parafiscal load. So on that side we have three cobwebs, we've solved two, this third one will go parafiscal. So to be clear, that part of 6 months from the residence tax is practically around 164 million kunas that we deleted for the first 6 months and will not have to pay the owners of apartments and holiday homes. As for Mrs. Dark Taritash, she asked before why she knew language, not language, etc. It's in a situation we've put where now agencies small that count perhaps three, four employees go to the head of the agency to expose the vd and that widow accidentally doesn't know the language and to the possibility that they can function. As for works and resources that the local self-government unit does not have, it is a matter of the local self-government unit to find a model, and I suggest that this model be a factoring model that I, as well as the mayor, once upon a time when it was lauding and brimming with factoring, so which is allowed by law, so within one budget year, it can be taken to take a certain factoring, use to pay for the contractor and to work further, and as far as the permits are concerned, whether or not they can work or not, it brings the unit of local self-government based on the request of the tourist community, the tourist community must give permission to the local self-government unit whether it will be able to work from when, until the law is until the end of last year, so. If they have made a request, it is usually in the range of 15.6. to 15.9. As for the loan, HBOR's loans, the tourism ministry has prepared one, so one programme to place 596, 7 million, let's say, about 600 million kunas unambiguously, for 3 years. We will co-finance the interest of 24 million and 100 thousand kuna. It's a program, by the way, that was for competitiveness, which we were giving away by the Ministry of Tourism. What Mr. Peđa Grbin has asked for measures if there is an activity, if we can say, to be ready, etc., the Croatian Tourist Board has already prepared measures and we have just Monday or Tuesday a video link to the meeting of the HTZ Council where we will define whether it is still to be corrected. Based on 17 directors of HTZ's office outside Croatia who give us weekly reports in which direction, how, what happens in these countries, what our competition in these countries is doing, in this situation, which is practically impossible, but we get concrete measures every 7 days from them and reports and based on these reports and their proposals we are somehow preparing the first programmes if and when it starts, which will be. According to some of our findings and what we've been able to locate, so somehow the nautica will wake up a little bit better because it's thought to be somehow isolated, let's call it, especially the owners of the ships that are tied up in the marinas. They will come to their ships and go to ports, i.e. outside the big center, they won't have that much contact, they'll feel, let's call it, safer, let's say somewhere on Kornati and so on. and the first market that began to wake up specifically and think about tourism is China. So all the other markets are frozen at this point, I can say and we'll still prepare everything and the moment we evaluate both our offices outside and diplomacy and all say it's the first signal based on those reports, we'll go, of course, to try anything to run. We'll be ready for it and from the funds that have been booked, if we can say for marketing and PR services we're already part of something and we're doing it, but we're preparing the right one, which is said to be campaigning at the time that's possible. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196558	Thank you, Minister. We have one replica. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196559	Seven seconds. Mr. Secretary, thank you for your reply. So what is, something, factoring something and costing, but what is important, therefore, is that there is awareness that the units of local self-government whose income depends on the tourist season, which have some investment before the tourist season that started before all this, that they are in an even worse situation than others and that this ministry, the Ministry of Tourism, will be able to address for one special aid in relation to all other local self-government units as it will probably apply to the Ministry of Agriculture for those, those units of local self-government that have a problem in the agricultural area, etc. Here, it's my appeal for you to be, and it's a good thing that you were mayor, I remember you from that time, we were in that mandate and in the Parliament, so you have an understanding of that part and, of course, for the islanders who now and can't really travel to the island and then those workers who would normally do it in a normal situation, I can't even do it right now. So that's another problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196560	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196561	The appeal must be good, the proposal must be clear anyway. That all of these 7, especially the county depends on most of the seas on tourism leaning and that one model of the way of financing, which I say here is one of the proposals is exactly that factoring over HBOR which would then be really minimally cost that at 2, 3 years. I think that this way we would find one of the exits safe, which would accept local self-government units, and wouldn't stop preparing some of the future ones because we're practically getting ready for 2021, and that way we'll have to think for sure that our goal is to keep our workforce, liquidity, and get ready for 2021 as well as we can. And that is how we look at the Ministry of Tourism and in the Croatian tourist community which is also preparing its... Here, thank you very much, Vice President, thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196562	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We've had a full discussion with this, I'm closing the hearing at 18.28. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll continue our session Monday at 9.30 a.m. with a free speech. You've been e-mailed to the agenda and schedule. Thank you. Have a nice, pleasant evening. Session aborted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196563	We now move to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Tourist Communities and the Promotion of Croatian Tourism. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the GLAS Representatives' Club and MP Tomislav Panenic. The first amendment is to the Committee on Legislatives, and that is the amendment to Article 2. Mr. Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196564	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That amendment shall be accepted. It's nomotechnical, it's acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196565	Thank you, thank you very much. The second amendment is the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the GLAS, the first amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196566	The amendment is not accepted for reasons that it is estimated that the consequences of the pigs in terms of business and the preservation of the jobs of tourist communities will be present not only in this tourist season but also in the year 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196567	Here you go, Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196568	Thank you very much. I'm going to beg a vote on this amendment. So tourism is important for this country. Tourism will always be important for the country. All this trouble we have, if I can use such a gentle word at all, trouble, but some harsh word to use will certainly leave not only the result of tourism but also leave a way of thinking that we can't depend on that every 5 kuna cannot come from tourism, that we can't depend on tourism. You immediately agreed to yourself regarding the tourist communities and promoting Croatian tourism to apply these measures to 2021. We appreciate that it would be much more correct for you to decide on 2020, and for 2021, you may have to come with a set and some other amendments and some other measures, so I would also ask for a nice vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196569	Thank you very much. The second amendment is to Article 2, Mr Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196570	Second amendment to Article 1 of Mr Panenic or?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196571	No, the second amendment is to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196572	On Article 2, of the GLAS, yes, okay, the same is not accepted. Therefore, the new Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism are prescribed long deadlines for bringing tourist communities in line with the law. The existing local tourist communities are obliged to bring their acts and structure into line with the provisions of that law by 31 October 2020, the regional tourist community until 31 December 2020, and the Croatian Tourist Board until 28 February 2021. The purpose of this provision is to allow the authorities of the tourist communities to work uninterrupted until the outbreak of COVID disease on the territory of the Republic of Croatia has ceased. The proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is more restrictive than the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196573	Mrs. Devereaux. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196574	So what and through our amendment we wanted to send a message about tourism and about the importance of tourism. So, you squeeze somewhere, and you fire somewhere. Give me the same way, same model, same terms. So this was the way to, that the first thing that when the threat stopped doesn't start with some sort of formal thing, but to have the ability to adapt to it. So please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196575	Thank you very much. And now we move on to Mr Tomislav Panenic's amendment. This is an amendment to the article. One, here you go, Mr. Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196576	Thank you. Amendments are not accepted. The objective of supplementing the Law on Tourist Communities and promoting Croatian tourism is not only to enable tourist communities to overcome difficulties in this situation relating to the financing of their tasks but also to preserve jobs in tourist communities with reduced inflows of travel tax and membership fees. Therefore, the limit set out in Article 5 applies only to 2020. and 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196577	Here you go, Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196578	Thank you very much. I don't think maybe the secretary of state understood each other properly. So, I am not asking in this amendment at all about this, which means that any threat to the workplace is being created, but that no new employment is taking place within the framework of the release of space, which was also the intensity of your ministry by making changes and the Law on Tourist Communities where it was observed, and you have seen it well, over-employment in tourist communities where the funds were practically used solely for the employment of an excessive number of people. In this way, the deadlines you have defined, they relax, which is understandable, there will be a fall in income, not to endanger employment, those already in those communities, but on the other hand, so that someone dares not to hire new people under these circumstances, do we know that the tourist community's income is not just from the fee, but it can also be income from the local budget and from other sources that the tourist community can access? Therefore, the amendment focused exclusively on preventing new employment is pressure on the public sector to even reduce employment now, rather than on opening up space to increase. We're looking for a statement on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196579	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196580	Final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law to the Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 903. Proposer of the Government, debate closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the GLAS Representatives' Club and MP Tomislav Panenic. We have held a statement on the amendments earlier in the session, and we will now vote on those which are not accepted by the applicant. It's the first club to be a member of the Voice, the government won't accept it. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. The amendment of two of the same clubs is not accepted by the government. Who's in? I find that he has not received the required number of votes and amendments three, i.e. the first Tomislav Panenic, the government does not accept him. Please vote who's in favour? He didn't get the votes he needed. The amendment of the Legislative Committee has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the law. So I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism. Who's against it? Three votes are against it. Who's restrained? No abstentions. And who's in? I find that most votes have been passed the Law on the Completion of the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism. 127 for, 3 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196581	The next item is a set of tourism laws. We've already accepted a united debate here. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Tourism. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Minister of Tourism Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196582	Your Honor, Vice President, Mrs. Assembly MPs and MPs. So we're going to unite this, I'm going to say a few words just to say which major changes are happening in the laws themselves. But I'd say at first, remind myself maybe because I see there's been a lot of conversation in terms of whether tourism is sufficiently provided, not being helped, tourism is specific because we have to look at it horizontally. So the measures that have been taken can practically say 80% of the measures concern tourism itself and help tourism, ranging from 4,000 kuna personal income to all other measures that are mentioned several times today. Evidence that these measures can also be met at this point in most hotel houses and tenants, and this law will change something that will certainly be important for tourist guides. So more segments with what laws are, which are measures that are horizontally affected and satisfied at this point to retain primary labour force and to sort of address the liquidity issue. As for the important things that are certainly beyond personal income and all that is today and the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government for speaking and presenting the laws and measures concerning all, and I say tourism is very important, it is proof that the associations themselves have responded, that the employees themselves have responded and confirmed that at this stage practically everything that has been covered in some way and could have been covered in this second phase. Of course, as the prime minister has already announced, it is still going to prepare measures that will certainly contribute to people who work in tourism, and especially those 108,000 private tenants who certainly expected to take some part of them into some kind of shelter and care for them, regardless of which they are mostly natural persons, but these intentions that were very important and pointed out. So, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tourism Service Act, I may say one of the most important things that not to go yet in detail are technical details. The most important thing about that is the possibility of a voucher, so what we talked about, the possibility of a voucher. So all those who have paid their arrangements that at this point, of course not the agency is brought into a position that we certainly do not want to bring, and that we give opportunities and consumer protection, on the other hand, that if they want to after 180 days for those 180 days, they will get a voucher, after 180 days if they do not want any other trip or other trip chosen, they will be able to get the payment of what they have paid on, so for, for that trip they planned. It was a deal, therefore, with both the sector and the tourist agencies. Let's count that some 6500 employees work in tourist agencies without seasonal staff and that it's very important that these are those small and medium and smaller tourist agencies that may count any time and less than 5 employees. For them, I can say that other than these legal changes we have prepared a credit i.e. I can say that and that it is not a credit card, there will be no interest on them, so we can say liquid assets that will certainly come well to such small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, hotels up to 50 rooms, small agencies, especially some 600 million kunas that we will place, so also give one injection where the Ministry of Tourism will cover the interest rate, so that you will be on 3.g. No interest, no interest. So these are mostly tourist agencies, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, hotels I repeat up to 50 rooms. That's what I say in this part of the Tourism Service Act. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Household Activity Act is certainly the important thing where we will catch up to a large part of all the tenants. So, they had an obligation to those who had registered before 1 September 2007 in terms of categorization, they won't have to, it's been their obligation since this year to go into recategorization, they won't have to go into recategorization this year, we move it practically all by 1.g. So they kind of don't have those obligations. As for the second part of the categorization, it's according to hotels and camps. As you know, everyone else has an obligation, hotels, and every 4 years. to categorize the i.e. The new retegorization or control, let's call it that and we gave them a chance, so in these conditions when they don't and don't have any activities to transfer it to next year and that there are no other costs. In the same way as the facilities that made the request in time for legalisation. However, they have not yet come to receive an answer, i.e. a legalisation solution. They had a temporary opportunity to deal, so rent apartments and rooms. This way we extend the possibility that they can continue to deal with it for the next year until they get regular legalization. As far as the proposal of the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism is concerned, there is one of the important things that we must do in some way, given the current law which says that tourist communities cannot be in debt above 10%, and wages above 40%, they would come in some way and into a problem because they will certainly need funds that are not income-free now because there is no activity, there is no residence tax, these are the largest funds they have from the residence tax, i.e. tourist fees or membership fees. Since these funds... In some ways we are asked to allow them in some way, and in this way ours have agreed that these 313 tourist communities in all have the possibility of, of course, each at the level of opportunity they have, the President will decide that. Councils of the Tourist Community or the Assembly, may, therefore, be in debt and above 10% if necessary, at this time when they have tourist activities that can in some way come to fresh money, liquidity and prepare for the possible step needed for that part of the tourist year if possible. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the Law on Tourist Communities and Part Two as regards the bodies being elected, so within the tourist communities, we would in this way give the possibility because of the special circumstances that are not at this point, because it is practically impossible to implement in 313 tourist communities the choice of the body, so we would put it on the a/a what they would say about this time while the events are those that are, so that the existing bodies continue to work and this way if we accept it as a change, continue to work and have, therefore, the full responsibility they have so far and that after these special circumstances that they have come up again the choices of all the bodies that stand out this year because I simply say it would be impossible to hold elections in 313 tourist communities, councils and all that, so it would be under the new law that we adopted last year in the assembly. So these changes are I'm saying, they simply provide an opportunity for easier business, easier opportunities for the minister in certain segments to react to, say, the height of the residence tax that we'll then edit by regulation. In the meantime, we also brought two regulations to the government a few days ago, but these are two important regulations that sort of release that part of the concession in camps and in tourist settlements and land, tourist land around the hotel. So that's how we gave the possibility through these two regulations that for the first 6 months we practically gave for one kuna i.e. no payment of tourist land concession in camps. As for, for, for, for, for, that part is variable, and for the fixed part to be paid, so until 31 August we extended to 31st November with the possibility that this first part that is variable is that, therefore, there is no payment unless there is any activity in those camps or hotels that have land touristically with this part in the camps being state-owned, and this part that is under the units of local self-government, land around the hotel, of course, is the part that went towards, paying towards local self-government units. So, those two things we've given for now, we've given the possibility that the first part won't be paid at all, as well as this part of the residence tax that we've taken down completely for the first six months. It's when you look at the main beds and extra beds that have entered the new law this year, it's about 164 million pardons for the first 6 months. We will see the basis of the activity in the second part of the year, if necessary, we will release that second part of the year of the tourist tax. That's what I'm saying, the part that's for private renters, and I say it somewhere around 108,000. This is how we looked at covering this whole section in each segment, giving through these horizontal laws the possibility of the liquidity of personal incomes, the possibility of moratories on loans given and one part of the possibility of raising these loans that are unambiguous, which will provide the possibility through the Ministry of Tourism of the first 600 million. And, of course, in further stages, we're going to look at that membership fee that this is, if someone is probably a couple of people already asking that membership option, we're going to put it together in that basket, which would be the parafiscal charge we're talking about these days, and they're definitely going to come up on the agenda, and then when they get to the agenda, there's going to be a question of this membership fee, which will then be in a package of parafiscal duties. Mr. Grbin, you've asked me about whether or not employees can come in, otherwise from next week HZZ will put some new rules, obviously some are already trying to use, unfortunately every law tries to find a model how someone can already use the possibility of putting someone into a 4,000 kuna measure, so in any case it will be possible, but not for this month but for the next month, unless they fire any more workers, they will be able to receive their employees again in the 4th month. And it's also true about what you told me about what he wanted to do if he wanted to see every employee he had received if they didn't fire any of them and he's very welcome and he'll be able to be in those measures. Since Monday, Tuesday is going to be a little bit rougher here because obviously somewhere someone wants to take advantage of a leak, so those measures will be even better protected if I can say so then next week you'll get an even better answer. But at this first moment in this way, I can tell you that it will. Here, Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196583	Thank you, Your Honor. We've got four replicas, the first respected representative of the Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196584	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Minister, you were talking about a residence tax, you were talking about tourist fees or membership fees, but I may have missed it, but I'm not sure I've heard from you, either from Minister Marić, to answer another question which at the moment is extremely tight for our private renters, which is the question of the flat. So, in those March measures, it was possible to postpone the payment of the sheets, but you and I are also aware that, for example, in the second quarter, there was no and there will be no guests, there will be no tourism, there will be no income. My question to you is, are we gonna go further with the sheets off, first for the second, and then I'm probably afraid for the next quarter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196585	The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196586	Thank you very much, Vice President. So in the first three months, there have been some activities as well, because the results also say in the nights and arrivals of tourists, so 1st, 2rd, 3rd month, we'll see what it is, but in any event, it will be considered 4th, 5th and 6th and further if there is no activity of course that will be discussed very seriously. I personally said where no kuna was earned wouldn't be logical if we were to charge a tax. Therefore, in any case and this will be discussed, so far it is possible to postpone payments. For the first three months I'm saying we've had results that are about 30% down, but surely your proposal and the proposal that applies to these things will certainly be well considered and will be in the direction where there has been no activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196587	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196588	The Honorable Ministers. It's absolutely clear that you need to come with a set of laws to adapt certain things to the extraordinary circumstances that have arisen from the crown of the virus. But we seem to have a series of things in the GLAS club that have nothing to do with the coronary virus. I ask you a concrete response to the Household Activity Act, where you are related to the catering activity in the households, to introduce a provision that, in exceptional circumstances, the Minister can therefore prescribe certain actions in the case of categorisation or the conditions to be given. Why the deviation? What's it about if it's a coronary virus and people can't even get there? What do you need this provision for? That provision may take you a day later to have some deviations when you start working that they have, but it has nothing to do with this threat that's with you. So I'm asking you nicely that it was the idea of a promoter through that provision that was added to you. 41.a.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196589	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196590	The deviations were in retegorization just like I said they didn't have to retegorize the objects. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196591	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196592	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I have a few questions that are of a technical nature. So in the first set of laws, we've seen a lot of companies in the tourism sector that will apply for certain measures, I'm interested in how to valorize and evaluate those companies, and in your sector there are a lot of them that started working 1.5 or 1.7 last year. So they won't be able to enter these categories of 20 and 50% traffic since they don't have a reference period. The other thing I'm curious about is whether it's been thinking about the government and these people who ended up in the last few weeks on the stock market, getting them back into the system in a way that these 4,000 kunas are recognized and that people can finally re-apply to their companies, so there's a lot of these unsaid things. What bothers me, too, is that you have been thinking more about how to make up for the tourist community's money, rather than freeing the membership fees in the long term, for example, from the Croatian company of the tourist community, that would mean a lot more to them in the future as regards reduced parafiscal burdens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196593	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196594	Dear Parliamentarian Maras, I just said about the tourist membership fee that it is going as a parafiscal imposition and it will as such be in a package of parafiscal intrusion. That's why we didn't take it into consideration now, otherwise she would certainly be here today and we would have discussed it in a similar way as we discussed the tourist tax, so the same approach would be. So, we're just waiting for this package that will be parafiscal burdens and it will be in that package certainly in a certain way solved because, of course, if there was no activity of course, there will certainly not be a bigger problem of thinking about whether or not it should be cut. So that part of me personally in that direction I made a proposal, so that's what's going to happen. As for those employees you said about last year's companies in the 5th month, we'll take a certain average and they'll consider the same. So it won't work out, for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196595	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196596	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, it is known that every 6 kuna is earned in Croatia in the catering and tourism sector. It's not the sector's fault in itself, and I wish it was much more in absolute numbers or absolute amount earned in tourism, but of course other industries are growing much more and better. We of the GLAS Club will have some objections to some of the solutions that you have proposed here because we believe that in this situation, quality should not be undermined in our sleep. So we have to do everything to make our tourism and hospitality even better, even better capacitated with a higher level of tourist service after this crisis. For years, tourism and hospitality as a branch have actually held both left and right remains of Croatian industry and agriculture. Now that this branch is in a major crisis, for example in Istria, which generates 30% of the tourism incomes for these people and hands and feet, they've held us above water for years, and they've actually produced one product that we're famous for. That's why you need to keep quality as high as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196597	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196598	Thank you very much. I totally agree, I didn't want to today because it's not even time to discuss the results last year's results, but since it came out yesterday, the day before yesterday from the National Bank, the CNB score for last year's financial year, so 11% more income than 2018, so the best result ever, I say, is hard to talk about these results because as you see very rarely and I don't mention it anywhere, but most importantly that last 3 months last year we had a 34% increase in income. So we speak 10th, 11th and 12th months, so we have definitely come to the fact that Croatian tourism has been an entire year of tourism, not more tourist peak of the season. It should also be reminded when it is said that in the first 3 months, we are making 5% of the tourism income, in the first 6 months we are accomplishing about 27% of the total, the first 6 months, and that way we will need to watch when we talk about all these measures, always be of when, as it was realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196599	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Now let's go with the club stand. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Bozo Petrov. He doesn't have the right words to lose. The second reported is the Live Wall and SNAGE Representatives' Club, Ivan Lovrinović, also lacks it, loses the right. The third is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, Marin Škibola, and he's not here either. She's next in line for the GLAS Representatives Club, the distinguished representative of Anka Dark Taritash, she's here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196600	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers and State Secretary, we have four laws and four amendments to the law. Tourism is an extremely important branch. What we've been showing all this time, and that's the trouble, the nemano or everything that happened to us with the coronary virus, has shown that it's not good that we're just hanging out on tourism. The Corona virus actually made it first, that great nemesis did the damage to tourism first. I am deeply hoping that it will not last long and as we are known as the destination so-called. I hope that this summer will at least be partially saved. What the minister said in response to his colleague, Beus Richembergh, which is that we were able to achieve a few things. If tourism wasn't just defined by the summer months, we really have a whole year and we managed to achieve one thing that is extremely important, which is the level of tourism. We were a country that was characteristic of offering the beach, a towel on the beach and accommodation. It turned into something else. It takes a lot of work, a lot of effort, a lot of engagements. Let's not let one move make it easy for us to give it up. We really have to take care of the day after, we can't afford to ruin what we had the day after. I absolutely understand that the crown has caused great confusion about tourism. The confusion in hotels, therefore in hotel accommodation, as well as confusion and private accommodation, so it was common practice to settle during winter, arrange individual private accommodation and wait for who's stuck on Easter rifle, so with Easter which is this year's 12th April, which is a good date, starts. Everything's changed. No one expected that this would happen, things will certainly change when it comes to tourism in the City of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb is really late, and from here when you leave there is almost no house in which it does not say that it has any apartment. This may make it easier for other things, it may cheap rent apartments in the City of Zagreb, but it is another topic. So language knowledge, this even this experience we've decided ok, maybe it's really our problem but that language knowledge that someone deals with tourism without language knowledge, I'm afraid it won't work. And the fourth law that is the Household Activity Act. Everything where you extend deadlines, where you give people the opportunity to really not go crazy about categorizations right now, is absolutely acceptable to us. But what I told you in the replica, which is next. You added article 41a. which has the title of carrying out catering activities and providing catering services in the household and on the family holding under special circumstances. Let's try to understand, if the conditions are special circumstances, and that's the crown, there's no one there to provide anything because it's forbidden for anyone to provide anything in terms of tourism and hospitality. When the threat ceases they will continue to work according to what they were before, the categories will continue to apply to them, they will have a deadline to extend the categories, they will have a deadline to adapt which is absolutely legitimate. You have to give them the opportunity to really people in all of this situation that they're not in the crazy yet, and now I have to turn in a request somewhere. The example is, just to make one comparison, so who has nothing to do with you having to do with the law we discussed before, that was the accounting law where all accounting was freaked out because they had to hand over something to Finni by a certain date and they were absolutely freaked out, and now through this amendment of the law is an extended date which is okay. But for someone who can't right now because of the threat that we're putting this law into practice, you're bringing in article 41a. which shall be authorised by the Minister to, with the prior consent of the Minister of Fire, because you do not dare to do so, and the area of health shall prescribe derogations. What do we need these deviations for? These deviations or you need them all the time, so you will have it all the time, but for now you don't need deviations when you can't even do it during the crown, what will prescribe for you the deviations of someone who doesn't work. So, here, okay, you're going to have a chance to explain in the final word what it's about, you're going to have a chance, we've already given these amendments and you're going to have a chance to say in the explanation of the amendment that maybe we misunderstood something that I can, absolutely let us understand something wrong, but this way that it's written is absolutely unacceptable. Let me conclude my argument. We absolutely need to keep an eye on this entire tourism sector that we've been hanging out on so that he can get to work as soon as possible, the day after. At the moment he's able, the day after he starts working, we have to allow them both left and right to really work, because they, they're the fastest to adapt to some new conditions, and they, if they adapt to some new conditions and something starts, we can have some good situations. But in doing so, we can't cover up that unfortunate, unknown, some kind of virus that's come out of nowhere, turned into the neman who's ruled this world in this situation, we can't do everything we've done well so far, you can do well, you know, it says you're doing well, and then by one false move you fall down, we can't make that wrong move because then we're not going to solve that wrong move for six months or a year, we're going to solve it for the next 10 years. In that sense, we at the GLAS Club have made amendments to each of these four amendments and amendments. These amendments, of course, we wanted to limit some things that are exclusively related to the crown, we pointed to some things that we don't think should happen and depending on your attitude towards these amendments will also be our position regarding the vote. All that you in the tourism sector will help us to move faster and better, you will get absolutely whatever we are, the opposition party, we belong to a group of those small parties, but that's what we call ourselves, we're pretty loud and we're trying to be pretty loud and pretty reasonable and we think good decisions should be supported regardless of and reasonablely explained, but I don't want to be here, I've called it cowardly eggs going through some things that we'll have some damage and then we won't be able to get rid of for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196601	Thank you. The next debate is the esteemed representative of Anton Kleman on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196602	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I welcome Mr. Minister and Secretary of State, all colleagues and colleagues in charge of this agenda debate. First of all, I would like to commend the government's efforts and the measures it proposed in a horizontal sense, so that we all try with as little damage as possible to get out of this crisis, which is really so deep that we can't see it ourselves, its proportions and I think that the government has done a great job with this move, interacting with the interested public in the first place with employers, workers, with unions and has taken measures that seem to me to give a good perspective to the Croatian economy to come out of this really demanding situation with as little damage as possible. In any case, and these measures taken by the Government concern both employees and employers and in the tourism sector which I would say may be the most affected and the hospitality of course, I would say that it is the most affected by this crisis and, as such, I think, through these measures which we will now comment on and which we will look back on that it must be given a chance, therefore to the entire tourist and catering sector that, after the end of this crisis, it can retake its role in the Croatian economy as soon as possible, and it will not change in my court very long, the tourism activity will still be a peri-performing of the Croatian economy, and therefore we must really help the tourism to get into shape as soon as possible to carry out its tasks. This, these proposals for the laws proposed by the Ministry of Tourism, indeed have a purpose, have a purpose and are a good contribution to these horizontal measures of the Croatian Government and I would say that, that one common part of the efforts of the Croatian Government to stabilise the economy and to provide it under these conditions and to provide one perspective after the end of this crisis. So, this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tourism Act, I think it has well defined some things that should have been defined, and that is, first of all, this novel to prevent advertising and to reduce one presence to legal owners, so those who use themselves to advertise themselves through social networks and portals, that practically in a gray economy they take cakes to those who are registered legally and who pay their obligations, and it is very good to now define that in such ads, the highlighted identification number of service providers, i.e. VAT numbers, so that the less they are grabbed in this gray, black zone. This about erasing the terms of foreign languages and knowledge of Croatian language to a extent, etc., will probably explain it in the final word and State Secretary or Minister. So, there is a thing that will be put about these months ahead of us, however, I would like to touch one of the measures which, in principle, is good, and this is about traveling package arrangements under special circumstances due to unrealised travel where it is arranged in a way that puts the moratorium to an end of the contract for 180 days from the end of the special circumstances. And agencies can offer vouchers that will be secured by insurance policy and thus protect consumer rights. Here I think that maybe this measure should be extended because it is not only about travel agencies, but you know that there are many direct contracts and advance payments and which hotelers directly, so there were payments of direct arrangements to congress tourism that are being delayed, so the advances are already on the accounts of our companies, hotelers, in the camps too, renting camps. In private owners via booking.com, if you will, etc., etc., etc. and I think that this measure should be extended in a way to cover other than travel agencies and these service providers in tourism and that these same vouchers as a refund, as a means of repaying money, are used to do so from 1.3 to 15.9.2020, in particular, on cancellations, if during that period, that the vouchers are issued with a duration of up to 31.12.2021. So, the whole next year where the guest can use it for his services or some others, as the minister said. Or at that time to get his funds back. Already some EU members, in particular, France, have put this regulation in the legal process and it will be very interesting if it is useful, if this measure is accepted by us, because it is very important to relax the financial portfolios of our companies so that they can get through this crisis as painlessly as possible, and I will tell you from some estimates, that it is approximately now, that there should be a return of about 80 to 100 million euros, so in return for money, so here, the minister to look at this possibility, I think it would be very useful for these providers as well, such as hotelers, campers and private tenants, to enable them because we have already made a good decision in these horizontal measures, and these are the moratories on credit payments, etc., so not to burden them with this situation yet, it is an extraordinary situation and it would be good to respect it. As far as these laws are concerned, therefore, the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Attending Activity, this is indeed all commendable, this about recategorising hotels, camps, marinas and facilities in private accommodation, very good, reasonable, I think it's really to welcome these measures and it's quite ok. As for this previous law, let me just say that it is very commendable that you have entered this situation, therefore, about providing tourist guide services to the Central Register, that you have solved this, it is indeed a good, good decision that should remain permanent in that whole story further in the legislative proposal. Here, you'd replicate it in some way and your colleague Taritash, if it were a member's parafiscal imposition, and the residence tax isn't a parafiscal imposition, so we should make a clear distinction, and I would say that, as far as private tenants are concerned, that we've already cut off 50% of the pausals, the residence fees for the first six months and here, and I'd say, I'd like to commend the minister that he's been communicating all along, we'll see what happens to business in tourism in the next period, it's a very good approach. If there's no business, there won't be any payment, if we all get it right, and I think we are. small, small entrepreneurs, craftsmen, micro entrepreneurs who simply don't know how this crisis survives and how they can deal with certain costs. So much more important information for them is whether someone for example who founded the company or arranged the apartment last year at 9. The month and de facto does not have a reference period in relation to what Minister Maric has offered today, whether he too will be able to achieve certain benefits, whether HBOR will lend loans to people to endure this season that will not be and whether these funds will be able to use in terms of employment in terms of possible someone to take advantage of that period for some other things and whether they will have a perspective in some way that when they start working again in a normal way. These are the answers that they are plagued by and to which we should get an answer today, that is what the citizens are interested in. We are aware of how much this branch of the economy will be affected, I will not be particularly catastrophic, but we are all aware when Minister Bozinovic says that measures or Minister Beros will be taken when they say the course of measures will be analysed whether they will be abolished at 6. It is very difficult for the moon to assume that after the measures have been lifted here in a month our hotels and our apartments will be full. It is likely that this season will be very long and therefore it is very important to come up with measures to survive until the next full tourist season, which will start at 2nd, 3rd month next year. That's what we expect from the Croatian government and that's what we want to see. On the other hand, we can discuss, for example, the parafiscal burdens that I asked the minister here, one or two laws are linked to certain fees and tourist membership fees, but not in a way to free the companies of tourist memberships, but to see how the tourist community survives this year when they will not have the income they have had in recent years. And the amendment of the law is correct to allow them to simply keep people in one place, they will probably rationalise themselves in some part and as far as pay goes because we expect it from the whole state and absolutely starting with the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the measures must be applied as soon as possible because if some people remain without income overnight, if they have no salaries, one part of Croatia cannot act as if nothing is happening. So we expect and ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to measure this type as soon as possible, although I am aware of how important it is to keep some normal consumption in Croatia and to balance certain things because nothing is achieved by making total consumption go down, but we have to think about being rational. And on this side, I expect this crisis to be used for a full review of parafiscal burdens, complete revision and tourist membership, both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and to see if this concept is "very much of the institutions" that help a strong economy, and in general, this assistance is usually very small or none of which I mean the tourist communities that work for their cities. I know a lot of people who do a lot of good work, but for example, the Chamber of Commerce is a completely useless organization, and if we come out of this crisis, we still have a mandatory membership fee for the Chamber of Commerce, we have sent one of the worst messages from the public sector to the economy and to our citizens. So, on this side, we need to do a full review of the parafiscal burdens and I expect it in the way that these measures come in to discuss what we can now, not during the crisis, but to end forever, forever, the obligation to pay certain parafiscal duties and certain duties that are related to the monumental rent, perhaps towards the economy and certain burdens that are linked to the general use of the forest. So these are the things we need now when we are able to talk about everything that needs to be seen now and try to lay the foundations that the economy when the crisis ends can move forward as soon as possible. And that's what I think is supposed to be the main message from these discussions, and I'd like Croatian citizens to hear it from here, hear what we're thinking, what we want to do, what we're going to do right now, what's useful and what we're going to insist on in the end. I am sorry, and I ask you, Mr. Vice President, to tell the President of the Croatian Parliament that Croatian citizens do not listen, regardless of whether 40 people or 4 or 6 are irrelevant here, it is important that our citizens hear our views and hear what is offered in these laws. In particular, I said these four laws, as regards the Law on Supplements to the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism, I can say here that I understand the intensity that I support that the tourist communities are being maintained in some way, but I would also like the Croatian government to think about kindergartens in local self-government units. So we're thinking about tourist communities, and we're not thinking about kindergartens in local self-government units because cities no longer have income because children don't go to kindergarten and have income and can't, especially smaller financial powerful cities can't stand the full payout level and the question is how it's going to survive all the time. It's one school where salaries go from the state budget, but kindergartens don't have that option. On the other hand, the incredible situation in the town of Zagreb where it is late and there is no payment for private-owned kindergartens, where children go to the same as kindergartens, because there is not enough room. So it's something that's amazing that the government doesn't talk about it. So we remembered the tourist communities right away, and maybe I don't know in some town or municipality of 10 or 15 employees if it's bigger, if it's less 2-3, but the kindergartens in that municipality and the city don't remember, and there's also people who are going to have to start dealing with our children again tomorrow, raising our children, etc., and I'd like to say that the government is thinking a little bit wider, and when you give me this law in front of me right now, I have to mention it right now. The same thing is with the tourist tax, these things are not of crucial importance or I think anything would happen that we have not passed this law or the tourism service law that defines, I mean even a little strange and sounds, says the Covid-19 epidemic has been declared and is now being introduced to everything else and says then one of the key measures, i.e. the first measure of eradicating the terms of foreign language knowledge to the extent sufficient to carry out the job of the head of the tourist agency, and the work experience of 1 year. I think since the tourist agencies are not working at all at this point, I highly doubt that someone will consume this measure. So here we can do an analysis after 3 months or half a year, I doubt that now someone is going to resolutely consume this measure and it's going to mean something to him in life. A much more important measure is whether these tourist communities will be able to keep employees of these 4,000 kunas we talked about earlier, whether the tourist community will now, let's say, in this part, in this part, it won't be me, because everything will have income less than 50%. I'm more inclined to write off contributions and taxes at the level of 30% or 20% of this because I think it should be the intensity to try to help a part of the company maintain business, not that now someone who has a 40% income thinks whether it's more worth reducing income 10% and entering into the full government measure, I think we should lower that level so much we don't motivate people and somehow make them try, although they do it on their own, to try to maintain business. So here I wanted to, and I'm going to end up mentioning that this part of the law is not going to be crucial to the large part of the tourism sector. It will be important for the tourist communities, I support it. I say and appeal once again that the Minister through the Croatian Tourist Community will try to agree and see how they will survive that they will now not be fully burdened for some coming years with loans that will be only for the cold drive of this one, but I would rather talk here about HBOR's loans, we would rather talk here about how this sector will survive from today real 7, 8 months will probably not be or will be minimal if the situation is normalised in Croatia, the season will be as weak, it is not expected that some people will start travelling quickly. The most important thing is to hold out until next year. And that's what we need to talk about here, and hopefully, when the next set of measures comes, we'll have more information on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196603	Thank you, dear representative Maras. The next debate is on behalf of individual requirements, Nikola Grumoja, the distinguished representative, is not there to lose his right. Next reported is Miro Bulj, and he has no right to lose. The next is Commissioner Branko Juričev Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196604	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, we consider this package a good, encouraging and appropriate moment. Tourism contributes, contributed to the recognition of the Republic of Croatia, accounted for almost a fifth of Croatia's GDP, and is now one of the most affected branches and the economy sector. In addition, it should not be forgotten that many other activities and sectors are currently relying on tourism. It is therefore necessary to remove and mitigate this economic disturbance and make it easier to bridge this period. This is the biggest crisis since the Homeland War, and the big problem is we don't even know how long this is gonna take. So with the first set, the first package of measures helped the economy with 30 billion kuna and we hear that to date we have over 66,000 entrepreneurs who have applied for this measure by saving over 400,000 jobs. Most are now referring to the tourism sector. On 19 March, the work of catering facilities of all categories and accommodation services was suspended, and on that very day, the Croatian Parliament adopted 63 measures or a package of laws with 63 measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to save and preserve jobs and secure salaries for almost all economic restours. For tourism, the possibility of delaying the payment of the tourist membership fee, postponement or release of payment of the tourist tax is also prescribed, and different support is provided for the financing of crafts and the improvement of liquidity, as well as a delay in the payment of fees for the use of concessions on tourist land in campsites. A little while ago, a colleague named Peja Grbin asked what was wrong with the cobwebs. On March 23rd, a rule was adopted which reduces the flat-rate tourist tax by 50% and releases tourist fees for all extra beds for this year for people who provide catering services in the household or OPGs, and thus only small tenants who currently have 108 thousand are charged for 164 million kuna. This second set of measures proposes to amend 4 tourism laws where it wants to recharge both the financial and administrative tourism sectors, preserve jobs, secure liquidity. So we have a supplement of the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism, where the Government allows 313 tourist communities, as far as we have in the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Tourist Board, which are the holders of tourism development, to be financially indebted which can be more than 10%, of course, with the consent of the tourist council, president and guarantee of the unit of local self-government, and gives the possibility that even in the coming year the costs for the salaries of employees are more than 40% of the income of the tourist community. The tourism tax law allows the government to regulate different issues related to the amount of tourist tax as well as payment deadlines, purpose and method of distribution through the regulation. The government will therefore continue to monitor the development of the situation and react, if necessary, and we already have announcements from the finance minister, that aid will go to our citizens themselves in the coming period. The law on the provision of services in tourism, i.e. the amendment and addition of this law, changes the outcome of a solution on the authorisation to provide services with only a solution to meet the conditions and we have far simpler and easier conditions. I would not agree here with GLAS's Club of Representatives but I would say that this is exactly the help and the employees, the students and the pensioners to further make their incomes, and also the unemployed, so that under easier conditions, they can achieve an incentive for self-employment. Travel agencies also need according to signed contracts, now instead of returning money to enable vouchers to travellers and within 180 days or offer them some other routes, if they can't use it or don't want it, then they'll just get the money. So after this, there's no financial burden on all travel agencies that they have to go immediately with unrealised contracts. In the case of amendments and additions to the Household Activity Act We've heard we're going to an extension... [[Intruder: Time.]] Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196605	You have replicas, so you will. The first replica of the distinguished representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196606	Here's Mr. Juricev-Martinchev. Tell me, you mentioned companies, you mentioned now and the catering activity, in which way, in your opinion, from this measure we heard today and from Minister Marić and Minister Cappelli, in which way the state will be appointed and in which the molds will be molded by those who, for example, start working in the 5th month. Last year? So there are these, before the season they started, they opened their own locals, and when they compare traffic, they won't have all year, it won't be possible to compete at all with each other, and probably, if they're 3, 4 months. Last year they didn't work, they had zero traffic. So that's where they won't be able to show that their traffic dropped 50 percent and more. So there's a big hole for a serious part of the entrepreneurs that exists in the Republic of Croatia, and I don't think they've thought about it in the government, and I'm now appealing that maybe until the vote, that the government should have some amendment or ministry until Tuesday's vote to try to fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196607	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196608	A colleague of Maras. Well, I would also point out that this very package of laws and the whole package of measures is praised by and here, the Dalmatian entrepreneurs today who praise them, and then the Chamber of crafts, the Tourist Guides Community, all praise this package of measures, but a lot will be harmonised and prescribed by regulations or government regulations. A lot of freedom has been given to deal with right in the walk when some specific problems are encountered.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196609	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196610	Thank you very much, dear colleague Juričev-Martinchev. I'm interested in your attitude about one thing, I haven't seen it, I may have missed something, but we have the following situations, so we have people who are already last year, they have permanent guests, so they have 2, 3 apartments in their own house, they have permanent guests, and they've already taken some advances from them, now to say maybe a full amount for this season. They'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll... How did you think, your thinking, what would happen to them, they'd have to pay back at some point what de facto they wouldn't have? What is thinking and what is going to be done or are some kind of deadlines or something? I get a little attached to these vouchers and these 180 days and all together because if they're not going to be tourism, it won't be enough for 180 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196611	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196612	Well, colleagues of Anka Mrak-Taritash, well what you said, with travel agencies is foreseen, if you don't realize the contract that you can use the voucher within 180 days, the payment directly to the tenant, that's rare, I'd say, it's kind of a loan, it's probably some long-term guest with whom you already have half-friend relations, so it'll sort of be handled in private. What the Government of the Republic of Croatia can do, is exactly what the Ministry of Resort does, that 50% of the pausals freed them, delayed certain payments and other payments, and we expect if this time is not certain until when this is all going to last, it also releases additional fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196613	Thank you. And the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196614	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev, I hope I may have been a little clumsy in the expression when I spoke, but it seems to me that the minister fully understood me. When I was talking about the cobwebs, I was thinking about the income tax. So the income tax rate remains unresolved, we addressed these other problems and it's good that we did. However, our private tenants remain income tax rates and the same visa would be for what the minister was saying, no one talks about the first quarter, it's over, we're talking about the second quarter. The fact is that now with Easter, our tenants were expecting the beginning of the tourist season, the fact is that it will not be, the announcements say that the earliest in early June will begin with the reduction of measures, which says that the second quarter is lost and I think that it is already necessary to send a clear message that the second three months when we talk about income tax will not be charged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196615	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196616	Dear Grbin, it is true that the tourist tax, the cot has been reduced by 50% or to extra beds should not be paid at all for this year. That tax, or the cobweb you're talking about, is determined by the local self-government unit. As the Government of the Republic of Croatia has therefore been expected to meet its owners, and the tenants are expected to do so by local self-government units so that municipalities or cities can reduce or release them in a certain percentage.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196617	Thank you, Your Honor. The next individual debate of the distinguished representative Goran Aleksic, he is gone. Then we have the next individual debate of the esteemed Mr. Gordan Maras who is now entering.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196618	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry to keep you waiting, if I could sit on one of these free chairs, it wouldn't have happened, but you can see how tough the rules sometimes don't know life. So, so, let me say a few more things about concrete suggestions. I also have to react to my colleague, Branko, who just talked about how Hook supported her. I mean it's clear, they've supported the first measures. These are professional supporters of this proposal from the government of Mr. Plenkovic. And Mr. Ranogajac, former HDZ mayoral candidate in Krapisko-Zagorje County and Mr. Burilovic, former HDZ City Council president in Vinkovci and HDZ president in Vinkovci, means they cannot be expected to have criticism as has occurred from hundreds and tens of thousands of entrepreneurs in, in a group on facebook that has become the main articulator of this and the group that most articulates the demands of entrepreneurs and thus in these few weeks have fought for a status that, and the influence that HGK and HOK will never have because of what they unfortunately serve in this way but serve as one political incubator who has lost its meaning. I'm talking about HOK, some chambers, county and city work a little bit more quality, and for HGK, it's really hard to find out where they deal with less politics and more, more, more economics. Most politicians gave it at local or state level. I said Burilovic was very highly positioned in HDZ and defacted by HDZ there as president. So, I'd like to try to bring these measures together, and I support, after all, that we're taking these measures, we're a little late with them, but they're a lot more quality than they were first, but it's still not something that's going to get some special rewards. Most of these measures support and propose all other countries in the EU as well. When you look at it, it's really nuances and there's not much wisdom to do. The state should be in charge of preserving the economy, the point and the jobs and that as soon as the crisis stops, we continue with normal life and economic activity. So that's all the wisdom in this story. Whether it will be from domestic reserves, whether it will be from international reserves, whether Europe will issue so-called. The corona of bonds that the less developed countries have and which are more affected by the crisis, and not for those countries like Germany that are the most economic strongest in the EU, we will see that I hope that Europe will show solidarity and that, ultimately, after this crisis, we will say to Croatian citizens here you see that it is good that in this society, that in 2008 at least we were in that society, we would have returned to some economic flows much earlier than we had come back on our own until we were part of a larger economic community. So I expect the government to be there very effectively, not to be bureaucratized. I watched yesterday a statement from the head or minister of finance of the United States who said that entrepreneurs would get direct incentives, I also expect from the government, perhaps in the form of HBOR credit to a certain amount, if used for employment it would not be necessary to return in the next period, that incentives to small and medium-sized enterprises would be paid in two weeks, he also said yesterday that they had prepared such incentives that all 30 million small and medium-sized enterprises in America would be able to apply for it and that in two weeks they would pay the money. This is what Croatian companies need with this guarantee of employment at the moment, they need some money to survive by next year, next tourist season. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196619	Thank you to Honoring Representative Maras. The next debate is the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196620	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and Vice President of the Parliament, worthy civil servants and ministers. Here I think you should get an "A" from the pawn and then answer me in the final word, I only have two questions, and that's why I answered the debate. First, it concerns local self-government units in tourist areas, so it is generally local self-government units on the coast that were obliged to complete their construction work by 31st of May so that they can prepare themselves for the season. Now it is relatively clear that this season will be somewhat worse than many last season there until wartime and it is also a fact that given this seasonality that the works have already begun, and that units of local self-government have a reduced inflow into their budget by about 90%, and the question of what they will have in relation to last summer and it is evident that they will not be able to pay for these construction works that they have so far. So, my proposal is and here I am asking you to consider, and preferably to show yourself, that these units of local self-government are allowed not to write off but to raise a loan from the HBOR with a start of a year so that they can pay for what I can't pay right now. Because otherwise what can happen? They can be implemented, if they don't have an inflow of funds, but possibly from eu projects, they can get that part done, and then we'll have a double problem, so they won't have funds for eu projects, they won't have revenue from the budget and they won't be able to function at all. So, if that part could be loaned or loaned with a start of a year when the thing is normalized for them to bridge it back, my proposal is to make it possible for them to do so. And here's what I'd like to ask, and your opinion will be on a proposal like this, or one that would have that intensity, so that some loan can be used to bridge this time of income. And secondly, as far as all local self-government units are concerned, that's what I was saying the day before yesterday, when it comes to public lighting, to allow them at some point from HEP a preferential price for public lighting. So we've got empty streets, we've got dark streets that might show up as a demographic measure, but I don't think that's how it would be. Therefore, to see with HEP that units of local self-government can thus meet to give some preferential price that would only last during this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196621	Thank you to Honorable Representative Bauku. Replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196622	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, you have said and mentioned certain units of local self-government, but I am sure the minister also knows that because he is moving in his sector that there are very many companies, craftsmen, private persons who are in charge of this period to prepare their apartments, catering facilities all that is needed for the season to start and to be able to do business in some way. So I think it's very important and necessary to ensure that these people are provided directly with moratorium banks on loans, and I think it would be right for the HBOR to enter unambiguously for a year until the next season starts and that people are helped in this way. And if they keep employees for a period of three months after this three-month measure expires, even that part of their loan and the payments to the employees will be reduced. We have to think about it, there's a lot of people like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196623	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196624	I don't think I'll surprise anyone if I say I agree with you. There I would set one criterion, which is, for example, the Minister of the Interior, describing these restrictions on movement, which are essential jobs. So, the fact is that at this point, people who are in charge expect it justifiably will be able to recover their duties from the tourist season which will obviously be something weaker this year or will be totally weak, to allow them to return this year and that's it. So as people are limited to business, economic activity and movement for something that is not necessarily necessary, it is necessary with a moratorium for such things as we like to formulate it was not known or could not be affected to allow people to live a normal life and to overcome that year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196625	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196626	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. So what I was also talking about in the replica of the Honorable Mr. Minister, what has been repeated through the replica of a respected colleague is something that at this moment extremely torments private renters. Of course getting rid of paying a flat tax on the income of a small tenant won't save you, that's a fact. We don't have to fool ourselves and say it's going to be a rescue measure. However, the fact is that we have recently raised, we have raised or by law increased the classes of flat-rate income tax and extended them to extra-beds, thus creating for small tenants this year a far higher tax burden than it was in earlier years, and they do not have income. The delay measure has worked well so far, which is at least for the information that I have, almost everyone, if not everyone's request for a delay they've accepted, and that's fine. However, I will repeat once again, it is clear that the income in this quarter, which is before us in the second quarter of 2020, will be completely left behind. Tourism is gone, the borders of the Republic of Croatia are almost completely closed, movement between local self-government units is prohibited. If there is no movement, if you from Zagreb cannot come to Crikvenica then there is no tourism. Postponing okay, but only until it's written off. And that decision must be made by the Parliament because it is simply a commitment arising from the Article. 57. Income tax law. Art. 57th units of local self-government were only allowed to determine in the amount of 150 to 1,500 kuna the amount of which would be the flat-rate, but it was prescribed by the Parliament. The parliament has imposed the obligation to pay that tax and only the Parliament can end it by its decision, unless the Government suggests it is quite clear that it will not happen. And that's why I'm appealing to you, there's time precisely for this delay, and there's time for us to do it as soon as possible. However, not only the income tax, the income tax was not the subject of an increase in the past years. I spoke more publicly about this, in 2018, we had two years in a row in 2018 and for 2019 an increase in the tourist tax, although in previous years the tourism community's income at the state level grew from home income by more than 20 million kuna per year. So the tourist communities at this point have at least had to have if they had any, but had the wise management of the money that was coming to them with supplies. Why does it matter, because at some point when this crisis is over, and Croatia will have to immediately seek its place on the tourist market. We have certain comparative advantages for other countries, while Croatia can be reached by motor vehicle, you can choose a much easier journey to Croatia than in Tunisia, for example, or another overseas country. Therefore, I appeal to the Ministry to prepare a crisis communication programme that will be ready at the moment when the measures are released, not only in Croatia, but also in other countries for activated so that the Croatian tourist product is further advertised in the broadcasting markets. In this way we will ensure that what is saved from this tourist season is saved that, but this should be considered already, we should start preparing videos, we should find markets on which we will advertise more strongly and should be ready that when the recovery train starts we will be the first in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196627	Thank you to the esteemed representative of the coat of arms. Minister, do you need something final? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196628	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's a few questions you're still here to answer. So we have income tax. a flat tax ranging from 150 to 1,500 kuna, which determines the height of the unit of local self-government. That flat tax we delayed payment, that's one thing. The second pauser is a tourist tax or tourist fees however we want to, however we understand it, it is also a flat-rate and it also determines its height, so we decentralized it and determined a private accommodation package determines the units of local self-government and the price fixed for the hotel means by tourist when the salary comes at night. For the first six months, we have wiped out practically, and it will not be paid for 108,000 private renters and it is deleted for the first 6 months and will not be paid. Paushal, the third pausal which is the third one is the membership fee, so the third one is the membership fees that I just said they will go into a package of parafiscal duties. So we can regulate it by regulation to be one kuna, let's say, when it comes to always talking about private renters. At this point, we put membership aside because it is treated practically as a parafiscal load. So on that side we have three cobwebs, we've solved two, this third one will go parafiscal. So to be clear, that part of 6 months from the residence tax is practically around 164 million kunas that we deleted for the first 6 months and will not have to pay the owners of apartments and holiday homes. As for Mrs. Dark Taritash, she asked before why she knew language, not language, etc. It's in a situation we've put where now agencies small that count perhaps three, four employees go to the head of the agency to expose the vd and that widow accidentally doesn't know the language and to the possibility that they can function. As for works and resources that the local self-government unit does not have, it is a matter of the local self-government unit to find a model, and I suggest that this model be a factoring model that I, as well as the mayor, once upon a time when it was lauding and brimming with factoring, so which is allowed by law, so within one budget year, it can be taken to take a certain factoring, use to pay for the contractor and to work further, and as far as the permits are concerned, whether or not they can work or not, it brings the unit of local self-government based on the request of the tourist community, the tourist community must give permission to the local self-government unit whether it will be able to work from when, until the law is until the end of last year, so. If they have made a request, it is usually in the range of 15.6. to 15.9. As for the loan, HBOR's loans, the tourism ministry has prepared one, so one programme to place 596, 7 million, let's say, about 600 million kunas unambiguously, for 3 years. We will co-finance the interest of 24 million and 100 thousand kuna. It's a program, by the way, that was for competitiveness, which we were giving away by the Ministry of Tourism. What Mr. Peđa Grbin has asked for measures if there is an activity, if we can say, to be ready, etc., the Croatian Tourist Board has already prepared measures and we have just Monday or Tuesday a video link to the meeting of the HTZ Council where we will define whether it is still to be corrected. Based on 17 directors of HTZ's office outside Croatia who give us weekly reports in which direction, how, what happens in these countries, what our competition in these countries is doing, in this situation, which is practically impossible, but we get concrete measures every 7 days from them and reports and based on these reports and their proposals we are somehow preparing the first programmes if and when it starts, which will be. According to some of our findings and what we've been able to locate, so somehow the nautica will wake up a little bit better because it's thought to be somehow isolated, let's call it, especially the owners of the ships that are tied up in the marinas. They will come to their ships and go to ports, i.e. outside the big center, they won't have that much contact, they'll feel, let's call it, safer, let's say somewhere on Kornati and so on. and the first market that began to wake up specifically and think about tourism is China. So all the other markets are frozen at this point, I can say and we'll still prepare everything and the moment we evaluate both our offices outside and diplomacy and all say it's the first signal based on those reports, we'll go, of course, to try anything to run. We'll be ready for it and from the funds that have been booked, if we can say for marketing and PR services we're already part of something and we're doing it, but we're preparing the right one, which is said to be campaigning at the time that's possible. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196629	Thank you, Minister. We have one replica. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196630	Seven seconds. Mr. Secretary, thank you for your reply. So what is, something, factoring something and costing, but what is important, therefore, is that there is awareness that the units of local self-government whose income depends on the tourist season, which have some investment before the tourist season that started before all this, that they are in an even worse situation than others and that this ministry, the Ministry of Tourism, will be able to address for one special aid in relation to all other local self-government units as it will probably apply to the Ministry of Agriculture for those, those units of local self-government that have a problem in the agricultural area, etc. Here, it's my appeal for you to be, and it's a good thing that you were mayor, I remember you from that time, we were in that mandate and in the Parliament, so you have an understanding of that part and, of course, for the islanders who now and can't really travel to the island and then those workers who would normally do it in a normal situation, I can't even do it right now. So that's another problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196631	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196632	The appeal must be good, the proposal must be clear anyway. That all of these 7, especially the county depends on most of the seas on tourism leaning and that one model of the way of financing, which I say here is one of the proposals is exactly that factoring over HBOR which would then be really minimally cost that at 2, 3 years. I think that this way we would find one of the exits safe, which would accept local self-government units, and wouldn't stop preparing some of the future ones because we're practically getting ready for 2021, and that way we'll have to think for sure that our goal is to keep our workforce, liquidity, and get ready for 2021 as well as we can. And that is how we look at the Ministry of Tourism and in the Croatian tourist community which is also preparing its... Here, thank you very much, Vice President, thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196633	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We've had a full discussion with this, I'm closing the hearing at 18.28. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll continue our session Monday at 9.30 a.m. with a free speech. You've been e-mailed to the agenda and schedule. Thank you. Have a nice, pleasant evening. Session aborted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196634	We move on to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a law supplementing the Tourist Tax Act. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the GLAS Representatives' Club and MP Tomislav Panenic. And first we'll plead to the article. 4. The Legislative Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196635	The amendment is accepted, it's nomotechnical in nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196636	Thank you very much. After that, we will move on to four amendments, four amendments to the GLAS Club. The first amendment applies to Art. 1. Here you go, Mr. Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196637	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The first amendment is not accepted. Article 9 already provides for a restriction that the Government of the Republic of Croatia may, by means of a regulation, determine the issue otherwise only under the conditions of specific circumstances. When these conditions stop, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will not have the authority to regulate these issues by a regulation. Special circumstances are defined in the Act supplementing the Tourist Tax Act published in the National No. 32/20.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196638	Thank you very much. Here you go, ma'am. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196639	I'm going to beg a vote on this amendment. I'll explain it in an article. One, and then these two are the same, just different, so I'm not wasting my time right now, and probably your argument is going to be the same. When the opposition clubs were called to the prime minister, then the prime minister said that one of the ideas that is to threaten is prescribed that the government can pass regulations with legal force, that no assembly around everything is to be manifested. We said then that it was unacceptable and that we wanted things to come to the assembly to see how certain things would be defined. We fully understand that during this, it will be necessary by a certain regulation to define something. But whenever you have some financial frameworks and some financial consequences, and it's about such a set of laws and that, then it's very good to define it by a certain deadline. So we here did not dispute the fact that the regulation would be passed, we here just wanted to legally limit that regulation and the validity of the application. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196640	Thank you very much. Amendment, the second amendment is in article. 2nd of the same club, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196641	The amendment is not accepted. In Article 5, it is already prescribed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia may, by means of a regulation, determine the issue otherwise only under the conditions of specific circumstances. Therefore, the argument is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196642	As I've already said, the argument is the same, so I'm just asking the vote on the amendment not to repeat ourselves, and we're not wasting our time needlessly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196643	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196644	It is also not accepted in paragraph 10. it is already prescribed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia may set otherwise under specific circumstances only.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196645	Please vote on the amendment. It's the same explanation, so it's the same theme, so I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196646	Thank you very much Mrs. Dark Taritash, you had your word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196647	I'm sorry, I'm a little speeding up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196648	All right, let's move on. Article 3 of the same Rules of Procedure, 4th Pardon, 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196649	The article, amendment of the GLAS Club to Article 5, shall not be accepted, within 60 days it shall give the Government of the Republic of Croatia the possibility that more than once individual issues may be regulated differently without new amendments to the Tourist Tax Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196650	Mrs. Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196651	Since you have not accepted this amendment that we are asking for a vote, you have, in fact, shown through your reasoning what we have been saying all along. That through the problem they threaten and through the regulation you actually want to bridge the situation that you don't have to come to parliament and explain something. If you have a threat and if it's worth it to you all together during the threat why you prescribed a 60-day deadline in which you'll bring the regulation, if it's all right, in that 60-day period, the threat will stop, it won't need a regulation and everything together. That means, if you really want to be correct, then you'll bring that regulation to you within 15 days so that it can work for you. And not this, you will, you will say everything during the threat, the threat may take 60 days, and you have given yourself a deadline in 60 days to bring the regulation. Something doesn't work in the system or in the system, and I repeat again, this is a set of laws that have financial consequences. You know well that the regulations with the legal power that you can bring during a meeting cannot be those that have consequences for finance. So you should have limited it, and if you really need a regulation, then 15 days is quite an appropriate time limit for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196652	Thank you, too. And the last amendment to this final bill is from Mr Tomislav Panenic, article 1. Here you go. Article 1 and Article 5
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196653	Yes, so the amendment is not accepted. In the case of special circumstances, i.e. The announcement of the Covida-19 disease epidemic caused by the SARS virus on the territory of the Republic of Croatia is proposed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia alone has the authority to make certain questions under the Tourist Tax Act different. In addition to the March 2020 Tourist Tax Act, not all issues proposed by this law are addressed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196654	Mr. Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196655	All right, let's go this way. So, first we agreed, we eventually voted that the minister could free or reduce the payment of the tourist tax by means of a decision. Perfect, great. Now we come to the fact that you are doing something counter-productive with this article, which is that tourist tax can be changed somehow, payment deadlines. So you specifically stated the government's authority to set deadlines differently by regulation under special circumstances. What does it mean differently? Looking at a user, is that shorter, did you mean shorter, maybe? Well, we don't know, be precise. When you're going to suggest something then you need to be precise when someone expects different deadlines. People are expecting today, and if you're not going to free them, that's the message from this. So this leads to the possibility that actually you don't, the minister won't reduce or delay the decision, but in fact he won't, I won't say that, but he's going in the direction of postponement. For some indefinite time, it will remain an obligation. How long will it take, how long will it take to pay, what deadlines? You put in a very, very broad, very broad term that actually doesn't suggest something that's positive. It would be positive if you said we're going to decrease, and maybe what we're going to reduce, no, what we're certainly going to decrease will be executed then over the next 2 years, 3 years or how many. This is how it is left, the minister can practically decide, and from this, the only thing he writes is different. I otherwise cannot take this as something that is not actually in the spirit of these changes, it is sought so concretely that people can count on, plan their incomes, plan their expenditures, and there you have to be very precise when you specify if something is delayed, which is delayed and how much delay will be applicable. Thank you very much. We're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196656	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196657	Final proposal of the Act on Supplements to the Act on Tourist Taxation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 904. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the GLAS Representatives' Club and MP Tomislav Panenic. We have held a statement earlier in the session, and we will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. The first is the GLAS Representatives' Club, the government does not accept it. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. The second amendment of the same club is not accepted by the government. Let's vote, who's in? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 3rd of the same club, the government doesn't accept it. Let's vote, who's in? He didn't get the votes he needed. And Amendment No. 4th of the same club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? He didn't get the votes he needed. Now let's go to the amendment, one amendment to MP Tomislav Panenic, the government doesn't accept it, so please let's vote who's in favour? Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the number of votes he needed. And now we will vote on the final proposal for a law supplementing the Tourist Tax Act. Who's against it? Three, my colleague Zekanovic you are against, no 3 are against. Who's restrained? Yeah, you counted it. Then we can go to those who are in favor, please raise your hand. And please score. I find that most votes have been passed by the Law on the Supplements of the Tourist Tax Act. The score is 120 for, 7 abstentions and 3 votes against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196658	The next item is a set of tourism laws. We've already accepted a united debate here. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Tourism. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Minister of Tourism Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196659	Your Honor, Vice President, Mrs. Assembly MPs and MPs. So we're going to unite this, I'm going to say a few words just to say which major changes are happening in the laws themselves. But I'd say at first, remind myself maybe because I see there's been a lot of conversation in terms of whether tourism is sufficiently provided, not being helped, tourism is specific because we have to look at it horizontally. So the measures that have been taken can practically say 80% of the measures concern tourism itself and help tourism, ranging from 4,000 kuna personal income to all other measures that are mentioned several times today. Evidence that these measures can also be met at this point in most hotel houses and tenants, and this law will change something that will certainly be important for tourist guides. So more segments with what laws are, which are measures that are horizontally affected and satisfied at this point to retain primary labour force and to sort of address the liquidity issue. As for the important things that are certainly beyond personal income and all that is today and the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government for speaking and presenting the laws and measures concerning all, and I say tourism is very important, it is proof that the associations themselves have responded, that the employees themselves have responded and confirmed that at this stage practically everything that has been covered in some way and could have been covered in this second phase. Of course, as the prime minister has already announced, it is still going to prepare measures that will certainly contribute to people who work in tourism, and especially those 108,000 private tenants who certainly expected to take some part of them into some kind of shelter and care for them, regardless of which they are mostly natural persons, but these intentions that were very important and pointed out. So, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tourism Service Act, I may say one of the most important things that not to go yet in detail are technical details. The most important thing about that is the possibility of a voucher, so what we talked about, the possibility of a voucher. So all those who have paid their arrangements that at this point, of course not the agency is brought into a position that we certainly do not want to bring, and that we give opportunities and consumer protection, on the other hand, that if they want to after 180 days for those 180 days, they will get a voucher, after 180 days if they do not want any other trip or other trip chosen, they will be able to get the payment of what they have paid on, so for, for that trip they planned. It was a deal, therefore, with both the sector and the tourist agencies. Let's count that some 6500 employees work in tourist agencies without seasonal staff and that it's very important that these are those small and medium and smaller tourist agencies that may count any time and less than 5 employees. For them, I can say that other than these legal changes we have prepared a credit i.e. I can say that and that it is not a credit card, there will be no interest on them, so we can say liquid assets that will certainly come well to such small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, hotels up to 50 rooms, small agencies, especially some 600 million kunas that we will place, so also give one injection where the Ministry of Tourism will cover the interest rate, so that you will be on 3.g. No interest, no interest. So these are mostly tourist agencies, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, hotels I repeat up to 50 rooms. That's what I say in this part of the Tourism Service Act. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Household Activity Act is certainly the important thing where we will catch up to a large part of all the tenants. So, they had an obligation to those who had registered before 1 September 2007 in terms of categorization, they won't have to, it's been their obligation since this year to go into recategorization, they won't have to go into recategorization this year, we move it practically all by 1.g. So they kind of don't have those obligations. As for the second part of the categorization, it's according to hotels and camps. As you know, everyone else has an obligation, hotels, and every 4 years. to categorize the i.e. The new retegorization or control, let's call it that and we gave them a chance, so in these conditions when they don't and don't have any activities to transfer it to next year and that there are no other costs. In the same way as the facilities that made the request in time for legalisation. However, they have not yet come to receive an answer, i.e. a legalisation solution. They had a temporary opportunity to deal, so rent apartments and rooms. This way we extend the possibility that they can continue to deal with it for the next year until they get regular legalization. As far as the proposal of the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism is concerned, there is one of the important things that we must do in some way, given the current law which says that tourist communities cannot be in debt above 10%, and wages above 40%, they would come in some way and into a problem because they will certainly need funds that are not income-free now because there is no activity, there is no residence tax, these are the largest funds they have from the residence tax, i.e. tourist fees or membership fees. Since these funds... In some ways we are asked to allow them in some way, and in this way ours have agreed that these 313 tourist communities in all have the possibility of, of course, each at the level of opportunity they have, the President will decide that. Councils of the Tourist Community or the Assembly, may, therefore, be in debt and above 10% if necessary, at this time when they have tourist activities that can in some way come to fresh money, liquidity and prepare for the possible step needed for that part of the tourist year if possible. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the Law on Tourist Communities and Part Two as regards the bodies being elected, so within the tourist communities, we would in this way give the possibility because of the special circumstances that are not at this point, because it is practically impossible to implement in 313 tourist communities the choice of the body, so we would put it on the a/a what they would say about this time while the events are those that are, so that the existing bodies continue to work and this way if we accept it as a change, continue to work and have, therefore, the full responsibility they have so far and that after these special circumstances that they have come up again the choices of all the bodies that stand out this year because I simply say it would be impossible to hold elections in 313 tourist communities, councils and all that, so it would be under the new law that we adopted last year in the assembly. So these changes are I'm saying, they simply provide an opportunity for easier business, easier opportunities for the minister in certain segments to react to, say, the height of the residence tax that we'll then edit by regulation. In the meantime, we also brought two regulations to the government a few days ago, but these are two important regulations that sort of release that part of the concession in camps and in tourist settlements and land, tourist land around the hotel. So that's how we gave the possibility through these two regulations that for the first 6 months we practically gave for one kuna i.e. no payment of tourist land concession in camps. As for, for, for, for, for, that part is variable, and for the fixed part to be paid, so until 31 August we extended to 31st November with the possibility that this first part that is variable is that, therefore, there is no payment unless there is any activity in those camps or hotels that have land touristically with this part in the camps being state-owned, and this part that is under the units of local self-government, land around the hotel, of course, is the part that went towards, paying towards local self-government units. So, those two things we've given for now, we've given the possibility that the first part won't be paid at all, as well as this part of the residence tax that we've taken down completely for the first six months. It's when you look at the main beds and extra beds that have entered the new law this year, it's about 164 million pardons for the first 6 months. We will see the basis of the activity in the second part of the year, if necessary, we will release that second part of the year of the tourist tax. That's what I'm saying, the part that's for private renters, and I say it somewhere around 108,000. This is how we looked at covering this whole section in each segment, giving through these horizontal laws the possibility of the liquidity of personal incomes, the possibility of moratories on loans given and one part of the possibility of raising these loans that are unambiguous, which will provide the possibility through the Ministry of Tourism of the first 600 million. And, of course, in further stages, we're going to look at that membership fee that this is, if someone is probably a couple of people already asking that membership option, we're going to put it together in that basket, which would be the parafiscal charge we're talking about these days, and they're definitely going to come up on the agenda, and then when they get to the agenda, there's going to be a question of this membership fee, which will then be in a package of parafiscal duties. Mr. Grbin, you've asked me about whether or not employees can come in, otherwise from next week HZZ will put some new rules, obviously some are already trying to use, unfortunately every law tries to find a model how someone can already use the possibility of putting someone into a 4,000 kuna measure, so in any case it will be possible, but not for this month but for the next month, unless they fire any more workers, they will be able to receive their employees again in the 4th month. And it's also true about what you told me about what he wanted to do if he wanted to see every employee he had received if they didn't fire any of them and he's very welcome and he'll be able to be in those measures. Since Monday, Tuesday is going to be a little bit rougher here because obviously somewhere someone wants to take advantage of a leak, so those measures will be even better protected if I can say so then next week you'll get an even better answer. But at this first moment in this way, I can tell you that it will. Here, Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196660	Thank you, Your Honor. We've got four replicas, the first respected representative of the Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196661	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Minister, you were talking about a residence tax, you were talking about tourist fees or membership fees, but I may have missed it, but I'm not sure I've heard from you, either from Minister Marić, to answer another question which at the moment is extremely tight for our private renters, which is the question of the flat. So, in those March measures, it was possible to postpone the payment of the sheets, but you and I are also aware that, for example, in the second quarter, there was no and there will be no guests, there will be no tourism, there will be no income. My question to you is, are we gonna go further with the sheets off, first for the second, and then I'm probably afraid for the next quarter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196662	The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196663	Thank you very much, Vice President. So in the first three months, there have been some activities as well, because the results also say in the nights and arrivals of tourists, so 1st, 2rd, 3rd month, we'll see what it is, but in any event, it will be considered 4th, 5th and 6th and further if there is no activity of course that will be discussed very seriously. I personally said where no kuna was earned wouldn't be logical if we were to charge a tax. Therefore, in any case and this will be discussed, so far it is possible to postpone payments. For the first three months I'm saying we've had results that are about 30% down, but surely your proposal and the proposal that applies to these things will certainly be well considered and will be in the direction where there has been no activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196664	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196665	The Honorable Ministers. It's absolutely clear that you need to come with a set of laws to adapt certain things to the extraordinary circumstances that have arisen from the crown of the virus. But we seem to have a series of things in the GLAS club that have nothing to do with the coronary virus. I ask you a concrete response to the Household Activity Act, where you are related to the catering activity in the households, to introduce a provision that, in exceptional circumstances, the Minister can therefore prescribe certain actions in the case of categorisation or the conditions to be given. Why the deviation? What's it about if it's a coronary virus and people can't even get there? What do you need this provision for? That provision may take you a day later to have some deviations when you start working that they have, but it has nothing to do with this threat that's with you. So I'm asking you nicely that it was the idea of a promoter through that provision that was added to you. 41.a.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196666	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196667	The deviations were in retegorization just like I said they didn't have to retegorize the objects. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196668	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196669	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I have a few questions that are of a technical nature. So in the first set of laws, we've seen a lot of companies in the tourism sector that will apply for certain measures, I'm interested in how to valorize and evaluate those companies, and in your sector there are a lot of them that started working 1.5 or 1.7 last year. So they won't be able to enter these categories of 20 and 50% traffic since they don't have a reference period. The other thing I'm curious about is whether it's been thinking about the government and these people who ended up in the last few weeks on the stock market, getting them back into the system in a way that these 4,000 kunas are recognized and that people can finally re-apply to their companies, so there's a lot of these unsaid things. What bothers me, too, is that you have been thinking more about how to make up for the tourist community's money, rather than freeing the membership fees in the long term, for example, from the Croatian company of the tourist community, that would mean a lot more to them in the future as regards reduced parafiscal burdens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196670	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196671	Dear Parliamentarian Maras, I just said about the tourist membership fee that it is going as a parafiscal imposition and it will as such be in a package of parafiscal intrusion. That's why we didn't take it into consideration now, otherwise she would certainly be here today and we would have discussed it in a similar way as we discussed the tourist tax, so the same approach would be. So, we're just waiting for this package that will be parafiscal burdens and it will be in that package certainly in a certain way solved because, of course, if there was no activity of course, there will certainly not be a bigger problem of thinking about whether or not it should be cut. So that part of me personally in that direction I made a proposal, so that's what's going to happen. As for those employees you said about last year's companies in the 5th month, we'll take a certain average and they'll consider the same. So it won't work out, for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196672	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196673	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, it is known that every 6 kuna is earned in Croatia in the catering and tourism sector. It's not the sector's fault in itself, and I wish it was much more in absolute numbers or absolute amount earned in tourism, but of course other industries are growing much more and better. We of the GLAS Club will have some objections to some of the solutions that you have proposed here because we believe that in this situation, quality should not be undermined in our sleep. So we have to do everything to make our tourism and hospitality even better, even better capacitated with a higher level of tourist service after this crisis. For years, tourism and hospitality as a branch have actually held both left and right remains of Croatian industry and agriculture. Now that this branch is in a major crisis, for example in Istria, which generates 30% of the tourism incomes for these people and hands and feet, they've held us above water for years, and they've actually produced one product that we're famous for. That's why you need to keep quality as high as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196674	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196675	Thank you very much. I totally agree, I didn't want to today because it's not even time to discuss the results last year's results, but since it came out yesterday, the day before yesterday from the National Bank, the CNB score for last year's financial year, so 11% more income than 2018, so the best result ever, I say, is hard to talk about these results because as you see very rarely and I don't mention it anywhere, but most importantly that last 3 months last year we had a 34% increase in income. So we speak 10th, 11th and 12th months, so we have definitely come to the fact that Croatian tourism has been an entire year of tourism, not more tourist peak of the season. It should also be reminded when it is said that in the first 3 months, we are making 5% of the tourism income, in the first 6 months we are accomplishing about 27% of the total, the first 6 months, and that way we will need to watch when we talk about all these measures, always be of when, as it was realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196676	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Now let's go with the club stand. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Bozo Petrov. He doesn't have the right words to lose. The second reported is the Live Wall and SNAGE Representatives' Club, Ivan Lovrinović, also lacks it, loses the right. The third is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, Marin Škibola, and he's not here either. She's next in line for the GLAS Representatives Club, the distinguished representative of Anka Dark Taritash, she's here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196677	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers and State Secretary, we have four laws and four amendments to the law. Tourism is an extremely important branch. What we've been showing all this time, and that's the trouble, the nemano or everything that happened to us with the coronary virus, has shown that it's not good that we're just hanging out on tourism. The Corona virus actually made it first, that great nemesis did the damage to tourism first. I am deeply hoping that it will not last long and as we are known as the destination so-called. I hope that this summer will at least be partially saved. What the minister said in response to his colleague, Beus Richembergh, which is that we were able to achieve a few things. If tourism wasn't just defined by the summer months, we really have a whole year and we managed to achieve one thing that is extremely important, which is the level of tourism. We were a country that was characteristic of offering the beach, a towel on the beach and accommodation. It turned into something else. It takes a lot of work, a lot of effort, a lot of engagements. Let's not let one move make it easy for us to give it up. We really have to take care of the day after, we can't afford to ruin what we had the day after. I absolutely understand that the crown has caused great confusion about tourism. The confusion in hotels, therefore in hotel accommodation, as well as confusion and private accommodation, so it was common practice to settle during winter, arrange individual private accommodation and wait for who's stuck on Easter rifle, so with Easter which is this year's 12th April, which is a good date, starts. Everything's changed. No one expected that this would happen, things will certainly change when it comes to tourism in the City of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb is really late, and from here when you leave there is almost no house in which it does not say that it has any apartment. This may make it easier for other things, it may cheap rent apartments in the City of Zagreb, but it is another topic. So language knowledge, this even this experience we've decided ok, maybe it's really our problem but that language knowledge that someone deals with tourism without language knowledge, I'm afraid it won't work. And the fourth law that is the Household Activity Act. Everything where you extend deadlines, where you give people the opportunity to really not go crazy about categorizations right now, is absolutely acceptable to us. But what I told you in the replica, which is next. You added article 41a. which has the title of carrying out catering activities and providing catering services in the household and on the family holding under special circumstances. Let's try to understand, if the conditions are special circumstances, and that's the crown, there's no one there to provide anything because it's forbidden for anyone to provide anything in terms of tourism and hospitality. When the threat ceases they will continue to work according to what they were before, the categories will continue to apply to them, they will have a deadline to extend the categories, they will have a deadline to adapt which is absolutely legitimate. You have to give them the opportunity to really people in all of this situation that they're not in the crazy yet, and now I have to turn in a request somewhere. The example is, just to make one comparison, so who has nothing to do with you having to do with the law we discussed before, that was the accounting law where all accounting was freaked out because they had to hand over something to Finni by a certain date and they were absolutely freaked out, and now through this amendment of the law is an extended date which is okay. But for someone who can't right now because of the threat that we're putting this law into practice, you're bringing in article 41a. which shall be authorised by the Minister to, with the prior consent of the Minister of Fire, because you do not dare to do so, and the area of health shall prescribe derogations. What do we need these deviations for? These deviations or you need them all the time, so you will have it all the time, but for now you don't need deviations when you can't even do it during the crown, what will prescribe for you the deviations of someone who doesn't work. So, here, okay, you're going to have a chance to explain in the final word what it's about, you're going to have a chance, we've already given these amendments and you're going to have a chance to say in the explanation of the amendment that maybe we misunderstood something that I can, absolutely let us understand something wrong, but this way that it's written is absolutely unacceptable. Let me conclude my argument. We absolutely need to keep an eye on this entire tourism sector that we've been hanging out on so that he can get to work as soon as possible, the day after. At the moment he's able, the day after he starts working, we have to allow them both left and right to really work, because they, they're the fastest to adapt to some new conditions, and they, if they adapt to some new conditions and something starts, we can have some good situations. But in doing so, we can't cover up that unfortunate, unknown, some kind of virus that's come out of nowhere, turned into the neman who's ruled this world in this situation, we can't do everything we've done well so far, you can do well, you know, it says you're doing well, and then by one false move you fall down, we can't make that wrong move because then we're not going to solve that wrong move for six months or a year, we're going to solve it for the next 10 years. In that sense, we at the GLAS Club have made amendments to each of these four amendments and amendments. These amendments, of course, we wanted to limit some things that are exclusively related to the crown, we pointed to some things that we don't think should happen and depending on your attitude towards these amendments will also be our position regarding the vote. All that you in the tourism sector will help us to move faster and better, you will get absolutely whatever we are, the opposition party, we belong to a group of those small parties, but that's what we call ourselves, we're pretty loud and we're trying to be pretty loud and pretty reasonable and we think good decisions should be supported regardless of and reasonablely explained, but I don't want to be here, I've called it cowardly eggs going through some things that we'll have some damage and then we won't be able to get rid of for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196678	Thank you. The next debate is the esteemed representative of Anton Kleman on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196679	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I welcome Mr. Minister and Secretary of State, all colleagues and colleagues in charge of this agenda debate. First of all, I would like to commend the government's efforts and the measures it proposed in a horizontal sense, so that we all try with as little damage as possible to get out of this crisis, which is really so deep that we can't see it ourselves, its proportions and I think that the government has done a great job with this move, interacting with the interested public in the first place with employers, workers, with unions and has taken measures that seem to me to give a good perspective to the Croatian economy to come out of this really demanding situation with as little damage as possible. In any case, and these measures taken by the Government concern both employees and employers and in the tourism sector which I would say may be the most affected and the hospitality of course, I would say that it is the most affected by this crisis and, as such, I think, through these measures which we will now comment on and which we will look back on that it must be given a chance, therefore to the entire tourist and catering sector that, after the end of this crisis, it can retake its role in the Croatian economy as soon as possible, and it will not change in my court very long, the tourism activity will still be a peri-performing of the Croatian economy, and therefore we must really help the tourism to get into shape as soon as possible to carry out its tasks. This, these proposals for the laws proposed by the Ministry of Tourism, indeed have a purpose, have a purpose and are a good contribution to these horizontal measures of the Croatian Government and I would say that, that one common part of the efforts of the Croatian Government to stabilise the economy and to provide it under these conditions and to provide one perspective after the end of this crisis. So, this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tourism Act, I think it has well defined some things that should have been defined, and that is, first of all, this novel to prevent advertising and to reduce one presence to legal owners, so those who use themselves to advertise themselves through social networks and portals, that practically in a gray economy they take cakes to those who are registered legally and who pay their obligations, and it is very good to now define that in such ads, the highlighted identification number of service providers, i.e. VAT numbers, so that the less they are grabbed in this gray, black zone. This about erasing the terms of foreign languages and knowledge of Croatian language to a extent, etc., will probably explain it in the final word and State Secretary or Minister. So, there is a thing that will be put about these months ahead of us, however, I would like to touch one of the measures which, in principle, is good, and this is about traveling package arrangements under special circumstances due to unrealised travel where it is arranged in a way that puts the moratorium to an end of the contract for 180 days from the end of the special circumstances. And agencies can offer vouchers that will be secured by insurance policy and thus protect consumer rights. Here I think that maybe this measure should be extended because it is not only about travel agencies, but you know that there are many direct contracts and advance payments and which hotelers directly, so there were payments of direct arrangements to congress tourism that are being delayed, so the advances are already on the accounts of our companies, hotelers, in the camps too, renting camps. In private owners via booking.com, if you will, etc., etc., etc. and I think that this measure should be extended in a way to cover other than travel agencies and these service providers in tourism and that these same vouchers as a refund, as a means of repaying money, are used to do so from 1.3 to 15.9.2020, in particular, on cancellations, if during that period, that the vouchers are issued with a duration of up to 31.12.2021. So, the whole next year where the guest can use it for his services or some others, as the minister said. Or at that time to get his funds back. Already some EU members, in particular, France, have put this regulation in the legal process and it will be very interesting if it is useful, if this measure is accepted by us, because it is very important to relax the financial portfolios of our companies so that they can get through this crisis as painlessly as possible, and I will tell you from some estimates, that it is approximately now, that there should be a return of about 80 to 100 million euros, so in return for money, so here, the minister to look at this possibility, I think it would be very useful for these providers as well, such as hotelers, campers and private tenants, to enable them because we have already made a good decision in these horizontal measures, and these are the moratories on credit payments, etc., so not to burden them with this situation yet, it is an extraordinary situation and it would be good to respect it. As far as these laws are concerned, therefore, the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Attending Activity, this is indeed all commendable, this about recategorising hotels, camps, marinas and facilities in private accommodation, very good, reasonable, I think it's really to welcome these measures and it's quite ok. As for this previous law, let me just say that it is very commendable that you have entered this situation, therefore, about providing tourist guide services to the Central Register, that you have solved this, it is indeed a good, good decision that should remain permanent in that whole story further in the legislative proposal. Here, you'd replicate it in some way and your colleague Taritash, if it were a member's parafiscal imposition, and the residence tax isn't a parafiscal imposition, so we should make a clear distinction, and I would say that, as far as private tenants are concerned, that we've already cut off 50% of the pausals, the residence fees for the first six months and here, and I'd say, I'd like to commend the minister that he's been communicating all along, we'll see what happens to business in tourism in the next period, it's a very good approach. If there's no business, there won't be any payment, if we all get it right, and I think we are. small, small entrepreneurs, craftsmen, micro entrepreneurs who simply don't know how this crisis survives and how they can deal with certain costs. So much more important information for them is whether someone for example who founded the company or arranged the apartment last year at 9. The month and de facto does not have a reference period in relation to what Minister Maric has offered today, whether he too will be able to achieve certain benefits, whether HBOR will lend loans to people to endure this season that will not be and whether these funds will be able to use in terms of employment in terms of possible someone to take advantage of that period for some other things and whether they will have a perspective in some way that when they start working again in a normal way. These are the answers that they are plagued by and to which we should get an answer today, that is what the citizens are interested in. We are aware of how much this branch of the economy will be affected, I will not be particularly catastrophic, but we are all aware when Minister Bozinovic says that measures or Minister Beros will be taken when they say the course of measures will be analysed whether they will be abolished at 6. It is very difficult for the moon to assume that after the measures have been lifted here in a month our hotels and our apartments will be full. It is likely that this season will be very long and therefore it is very important to come up with measures to survive until the next full tourist season, which will start at 2nd, 3rd month next year. That's what we expect from the Croatian government and that's what we want to see. On the other hand, we can discuss, for example, the parafiscal burdens that I asked the minister here, one or two laws are linked to certain fees and tourist membership fees, but not in a way to free the companies of tourist memberships, but to see how the tourist community survives this year when they will not have the income they have had in recent years. And the amendment of the law is correct to allow them to simply keep people in one place, they will probably rationalise themselves in some part and as far as pay goes because we expect it from the whole state and absolutely starting with the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the measures must be applied as soon as possible because if some people remain without income overnight, if they have no salaries, one part of Croatia cannot act as if nothing is happening. So we expect and ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to measure this type as soon as possible, although I am aware of how important it is to keep some normal consumption in Croatia and to balance certain things because nothing is achieved by making total consumption go down, but we have to think about being rational. And on this side, I expect this crisis to be used for a full review of parafiscal burdens, complete revision and tourist membership, both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and to see if this concept is "very much of the institutions" that help a strong economy, and in general, this assistance is usually very small or none of which I mean the tourist communities that work for their cities. I know a lot of people who do a lot of good work, but for example, the Chamber of Commerce is a completely useless organization, and if we come out of this crisis, we still have a mandatory membership fee for the Chamber of Commerce, we have sent one of the worst messages from the public sector to the economy and to our citizens. So, on this side, we need to do a full review of the parafiscal burdens and I expect it in the way that these measures come in to discuss what we can now, not during the crisis, but to end forever, forever, the obligation to pay certain parafiscal duties and certain duties that are related to the monumental rent, perhaps towards the economy and certain burdens that are linked to the general use of the forest. So these are the things we need now when we are able to talk about everything that needs to be seen now and try to lay the foundations that the economy when the crisis ends can move forward as soon as possible. And that's what I think is supposed to be the main message from these discussions, and I'd like Croatian citizens to hear it from here, hear what we're thinking, what we want to do, what we're going to do right now, what's useful and what we're going to insist on in the end. I am sorry, and I ask you, Mr. Vice President, to tell the President of the Croatian Parliament that Croatian citizens do not listen, regardless of whether 40 people or 4 or 6 are irrelevant here, it is important that our citizens hear our views and hear what is offered in these laws. In particular, I said these four laws, as regards the Law on Supplements to the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism, I can say here that I understand the intensity that I support that the tourist communities are being maintained in some way, but I would also like the Croatian government to think about kindergartens in local self-government units. So we're thinking about tourist communities, and we're not thinking about kindergartens in local self-government units because cities no longer have income because children don't go to kindergarten and have income and can't, especially smaller financial powerful cities can't stand the full payout level and the question is how it's going to survive all the time. It's one school where salaries go from the state budget, but kindergartens don't have that option. On the other hand, the incredible situation in the town of Zagreb where it is late and there is no payment for private-owned kindergartens, where children go to the same as kindergartens, because there is not enough room. So it's something that's amazing that the government doesn't talk about it. So we remembered the tourist communities right away, and maybe I don't know in some town or municipality of 10 or 15 employees if it's bigger, if it's less 2-3, but the kindergartens in that municipality and the city don't remember, and there's also people who are going to have to start dealing with our children again tomorrow, raising our children, etc., and I'd like to say that the government is thinking a little bit wider, and when you give me this law in front of me right now, I have to mention it right now. The same thing is with the tourist tax, these things are not of crucial importance or I think anything would happen that we have not passed this law or the tourism service law that defines, I mean even a little strange and sounds, says the Covid-19 epidemic has been declared and is now being introduced to everything else and says then one of the key measures, i.e. the first measure of eradicating the terms of foreign language knowledge to the extent sufficient to carry out the job of the head of the tourist agency, and the work experience of 1 year. I think since the tourist agencies are not working at all at this point, I highly doubt that someone will consume this measure. So here we can do an analysis after 3 months or half a year, I doubt that now someone is going to resolutely consume this measure and it's going to mean something to him in life. A much more important measure is whether these tourist communities will be able to keep employees of these 4,000 kunas we talked about earlier, whether the tourist community will now, let's say, in this part, in this part, it won't be me, because everything will have income less than 50%. I'm more inclined to write off contributions and taxes at the level of 30% or 20% of this because I think it should be the intensity to try to help a part of the company maintain business, not that now someone who has a 40% income thinks whether it's more worth reducing income 10% and entering into the full government measure, I think we should lower that level so much we don't motivate people and somehow make them try, although they do it on their own, to try to maintain business. So here I wanted to, and I'm going to end up mentioning that this part of the law is not going to be crucial to the large part of the tourism sector. It will be important for the tourist communities, I support it. I say and appeal once again that the Minister through the Croatian Tourist Community will try to agree and see how they will survive that they will now not be fully burdened for some coming years with loans that will be only for the cold drive of this one, but I would rather talk here about HBOR's loans, we would rather talk here about how this sector will survive from today real 7, 8 months will probably not be or will be minimal if the situation is normalised in Croatia, the season will be as weak, it is not expected that some people will start travelling quickly. The most important thing is to hold out until next year. And that's what we need to talk about here, and hopefully, when the next set of measures comes, we'll have more information on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196680	Thank you, dear representative Maras. The next debate is on behalf of individual requirements, Nikola Grumoja, the distinguished representative, is not there to lose his right. Next reported is Miro Bulj, and he has no right to lose. The next is Commissioner Branko Juričev Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196681	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, we consider this package a good, encouraging and appropriate moment. Tourism contributes, contributed to the recognition of the Republic of Croatia, accounted for almost a fifth of Croatia's GDP, and is now one of the most affected branches and the economy sector. In addition, it should not be forgotten that many other activities and sectors are currently relying on tourism. It is therefore necessary to remove and mitigate this economic disturbance and make it easier to bridge this period. This is the biggest crisis since the Homeland War, and the big problem is we don't even know how long this is gonna take. So with the first set, the first package of measures helped the economy with 30 billion kuna and we hear that to date we have over 66,000 entrepreneurs who have applied for this measure by saving over 400,000 jobs. Most are now referring to the tourism sector. On 19 March, the work of catering facilities of all categories and accommodation services was suspended, and on that very day, the Croatian Parliament adopted 63 measures or a package of laws with 63 measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to save and preserve jobs and secure salaries for almost all economic restours. For tourism, the possibility of delaying the payment of the tourist membership fee, postponement or release of payment of the tourist tax is also prescribed, and different support is provided for the financing of crafts and the improvement of liquidity, as well as a delay in the payment of fees for the use of concessions on tourist land in campsites. A little while ago, a colleague named Peja Grbin asked what was wrong with the cobwebs. On March 23rd, a rule was adopted which reduces the flat-rate tourist tax by 50% and releases tourist fees for all extra beds for this year for people who provide catering services in the household or OPGs, and thus only small tenants who currently have 108 thousand are charged for 164 million kuna. This second set of measures proposes to amend 4 tourism laws where it wants to recharge both the financial and administrative tourism sectors, preserve jobs, secure liquidity. So we have a supplement of the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism, where the Government allows 313 tourist communities, as far as we have in the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Tourist Board, which are the holders of tourism development, to be financially indebted which can be more than 10%, of course, with the consent of the tourist council, president and guarantee of the unit of local self-government, and gives the possibility that even in the coming year the costs for the salaries of employees are more than 40% of the income of the tourist community. The tourism tax law allows the government to regulate different issues related to the amount of tourist tax as well as payment deadlines, purpose and method of distribution through the regulation. The government will therefore continue to monitor the development of the situation and react, if necessary, and we already have announcements from the finance minister, that aid will go to our citizens themselves in the coming period. The law on the provision of services in tourism, i.e. the amendment and addition of this law, changes the outcome of a solution on the authorisation to provide services with only a solution to meet the conditions and we have far simpler and easier conditions. I would not agree here with GLAS's Club of Representatives but I would say that this is exactly the help and the employees, the students and the pensioners to further make their incomes, and also the unemployed, so that under easier conditions, they can achieve an incentive for self-employment. Travel agencies also need according to signed contracts, now instead of returning money to enable vouchers to travellers and within 180 days or offer them some other routes, if they can't use it or don't want it, then they'll just get the money. So after this, there's no financial burden on all travel agencies that they have to go immediately with unrealised contracts. In the case of amendments and additions to the Household Activity Act We've heard we're going to an extension... [[Intruder: Time.]] Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196682	You have replicas, so you will. The first replica of the distinguished representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196683	Here's Mr. Juricev-Martinchev. Tell me, you mentioned companies, you mentioned now and the catering activity, in which way, in your opinion, from this measure we heard today and from Minister Marić and Minister Cappelli, in which way the state will be appointed and in which the molds will be molded by those who, for example, start working in the 5th month. Last year? So there are these, before the season they started, they opened their own locals, and when they compare traffic, they won't have all year, it won't be possible to compete at all with each other, and probably, if they're 3, 4 months. Last year they didn't work, they had zero traffic. So that's where they won't be able to show that their traffic dropped 50 percent and more. So there's a big hole for a serious part of the entrepreneurs that exists in the Republic of Croatia, and I don't think they've thought about it in the government, and I'm now appealing that maybe until the vote, that the government should have some amendment or ministry until Tuesday's vote to try to fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196684	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196685	A colleague of Maras. Well, I would also point out that this very package of laws and the whole package of measures is praised by and here, the Dalmatian entrepreneurs today who praise them, and then the Chamber of crafts, the Tourist Guides Community, all praise this package of measures, but a lot will be harmonised and prescribed by regulations or government regulations. A lot of freedom has been given to deal with right in the walk when some specific problems are encountered.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196686	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196687	Thank you very much, dear colleague Juričev-Martinchev. I'm interested in your attitude about one thing, I haven't seen it, I may have missed something, but we have the following situations, so we have people who are already last year, they have permanent guests, so they have 2, 3 apartments in their own house, they have permanent guests, and they've already taken some advances from them, now to say maybe a full amount for this season. They'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll... How did you think, your thinking, what would happen to them, they'd have to pay back at some point what de facto they wouldn't have? What is thinking and what is going to be done or are some kind of deadlines or something? I get a little attached to these vouchers and these 180 days and all together because if they're not going to be tourism, it won't be enough for 180 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196688	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196689	Well, colleagues of Anka Mrak-Taritash, well what you said, with travel agencies is foreseen, if you don't realize the contract that you can use the voucher within 180 days, the payment directly to the tenant, that's rare, I'd say, it's kind of a loan, it's probably some long-term guest with whom you already have half-friend relations, so it'll sort of be handled in private. What the Government of the Republic of Croatia can do, is exactly what the Ministry of Resort does, that 50% of the pausals freed them, delayed certain payments and other payments, and we expect if this time is not certain until when this is all going to last, it also releases additional fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196690	Thank you. And the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196691	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev, I hope I may have been a little clumsy in the expression when I spoke, but it seems to me that the minister fully understood me. When I was talking about the cobwebs, I was thinking about the income tax. So the income tax rate remains unresolved, we addressed these other problems and it's good that we did. However, our private tenants remain income tax rates and the same visa would be for what the minister was saying, no one talks about the first quarter, it's over, we're talking about the second quarter. The fact is that now with Easter, our tenants were expecting the beginning of the tourist season, the fact is that it will not be, the announcements say that the earliest in early June will begin with the reduction of measures, which says that the second quarter is lost and I think that it is already necessary to send a clear message that the second three months when we talk about income tax will not be charged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196692	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196693	Dear Grbin, it is true that the tourist tax, the cot has been reduced by 50% or to extra beds should not be paid at all for this year. That tax, or the cobweb you're talking about, is determined by the local self-government unit. As the Government of the Republic of Croatia has therefore been expected to meet its owners, and the tenants are expected to do so by local self-government units so that municipalities or cities can reduce or release them in a certain percentage.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196694	Thank you, Your Honor. The next individual debate of the distinguished representative Goran Aleksic, he is gone. Then we have the next individual debate of the esteemed Mr. Gordan Maras who is now entering.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196695	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry to keep you waiting, if I could sit on one of these free chairs, it wouldn't have happened, but you can see how tough the rules sometimes don't know life. So, so, let me say a few more things about concrete suggestions. I also have to react to my colleague, Branko, who just talked about how Hook supported her. I mean it's clear, they've supported the first measures. These are professional supporters of this proposal from the government of Mr. Plenkovic. And Mr. Ranogajac, former HDZ mayoral candidate in Krapisko-Zagorje County and Mr. Burilovic, former HDZ City Council president in Vinkovci and HDZ president in Vinkovci, means they cannot be expected to have criticism as has occurred from hundreds and tens of thousands of entrepreneurs in, in a group on facebook that has become the main articulator of this and the group that most articulates the demands of entrepreneurs and thus in these few weeks have fought for a status that, and the influence that HGK and HOK will never have because of what they unfortunately serve in this way but serve as one political incubator who has lost its meaning. I'm talking about HOK, some chambers, county and city work a little bit more quality, and for HGK, it's really hard to find out where they deal with less politics and more, more, more economics. Most politicians gave it at local or state level. I said Burilovic was very highly positioned in HDZ and defacted by HDZ there as president. So, I'd like to try to bring these measures together, and I support, after all, that we're taking these measures, we're a little late with them, but they're a lot more quality than they were first, but it's still not something that's going to get some special rewards. Most of these measures support and propose all other countries in the EU as well. When you look at it, it's really nuances and there's not much wisdom to do. The state should be in charge of preserving the economy, the point and the jobs and that as soon as the crisis stops, we continue with normal life and economic activity. So that's all the wisdom in this story. Whether it will be from domestic reserves, whether it will be from international reserves, whether Europe will issue so-called. The corona of bonds that the less developed countries have and which are more affected by the crisis, and not for those countries like Germany that are the most economic strongest in the EU, we will see that I hope that Europe will show solidarity and that, ultimately, after this crisis, we will say to Croatian citizens here you see that it is good that in this society, that in 2008 at least we were in that society, we would have returned to some economic flows much earlier than we had come back on our own until we were part of a larger economic community. So I expect the government to be there very effectively, not to be bureaucratized. I watched yesterday a statement from the head or minister of finance of the United States who said that entrepreneurs would get direct incentives, I also expect from the government, perhaps in the form of HBOR credit to a certain amount, if used for employment it would not be necessary to return in the next period, that incentives to small and medium-sized enterprises would be paid in two weeks, he also said yesterday that they had prepared such incentives that all 30 million small and medium-sized enterprises in America would be able to apply for it and that in two weeks they would pay the money. This is what Croatian companies need with this guarantee of employment at the moment, they need some money to survive by next year, next tourist season. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196696	Thank you to Honoring Representative Maras. The next debate is the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196697	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and Vice President of the Parliament, worthy civil servants and ministers. Here I think you should get an "A" from the pawn and then answer me in the final word, I only have two questions, and that's why I answered the debate. First, it concerns local self-government units in tourist areas, so it is generally local self-government units on the coast that were obliged to complete their construction work by 31st of May so that they can prepare themselves for the season. Now it is relatively clear that this season will be somewhat worse than many last season there until wartime and it is also a fact that given this seasonality that the works have already begun, and that units of local self-government have a reduced inflow into their budget by about 90%, and the question of what they will have in relation to last summer and it is evident that they will not be able to pay for these construction works that they have so far. So, my proposal is and here I am asking you to consider, and preferably to show yourself, that these units of local self-government are allowed not to write off but to raise a loan from the HBOR with a start of a year so that they can pay for what I can't pay right now. Because otherwise what can happen? They can be implemented, if they don't have an inflow of funds, but possibly from eu projects, they can get that part done, and then we'll have a double problem, so they won't have funds for eu projects, they won't have revenue from the budget and they won't be able to function at all. So, if that part could be loaned or loaned with a start of a year when the thing is normalized for them to bridge it back, my proposal is to make it possible for them to do so. And here's what I'd like to ask, and your opinion will be on a proposal like this, or one that would have that intensity, so that some loan can be used to bridge this time of income. And secondly, as far as all local self-government units are concerned, that's what I was saying the day before yesterday, when it comes to public lighting, to allow them at some point from HEP a preferential price for public lighting. So we've got empty streets, we've got dark streets that might show up as a demographic measure, but I don't think that's how it would be. Therefore, to see with HEP that units of local self-government can thus meet to give some preferential price that would only last during this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196698	Thank you to Honorable Representative Bauku. Replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196699	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, you have said and mentioned certain units of local self-government, but I am sure the minister also knows that because he is moving in his sector that there are very many companies, craftsmen, private persons who are in charge of this period to prepare their apartments, catering facilities all that is needed for the season to start and to be able to do business in some way. So I think it's very important and necessary to ensure that these people are provided directly with moratorium banks on loans, and I think it would be right for the HBOR to enter unambiguously for a year until the next season starts and that people are helped in this way. And if they keep employees for a period of three months after this three-month measure expires, even that part of their loan and the payments to the employees will be reduced. We have to think about it, there's a lot of people like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196700	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196701	I don't think I'll surprise anyone if I say I agree with you. There I would set one criterion, which is, for example, the Minister of the Interior, describing these restrictions on movement, which are essential jobs. So, the fact is that at this point, people who are in charge expect it justifiably will be able to recover their duties from the tourist season which will obviously be something weaker this year or will be totally weak, to allow them to return this year and that's it. So as people are limited to business, economic activity and movement for something that is not necessarily necessary, it is necessary with a moratorium for such things as we like to formulate it was not known or could not be affected to allow people to live a normal life and to overcome that year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196702	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196703	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. So what I was also talking about in the replica of the Honorable Mr. Minister, what has been repeated through the replica of a respected colleague is something that at this moment extremely torments private renters. Of course getting rid of paying a flat tax on the income of a small tenant won't save you, that's a fact. We don't have to fool ourselves and say it's going to be a rescue measure. However, the fact is that we have recently raised, we have raised or by law increased the classes of flat-rate income tax and extended them to extra-beds, thus creating for small tenants this year a far higher tax burden than it was in earlier years, and they do not have income. The delay measure has worked well so far, which is at least for the information that I have, almost everyone, if not everyone's request for a delay they've accepted, and that's fine. However, I will repeat once again, it is clear that the income in this quarter, which is before us in the second quarter of 2020, will be completely left behind. Tourism is gone, the borders of the Republic of Croatia are almost completely closed, movement between local self-government units is prohibited. If there is no movement, if you from Zagreb cannot come to Crikvenica then there is no tourism. Postponing okay, but only until it's written off. And that decision must be made by the Parliament because it is simply a commitment arising from the Article. 57. Income tax law. Art. 57th units of local self-government were only allowed to determine in the amount of 150 to 1,500 kuna the amount of which would be the flat-rate, but it was prescribed by the Parliament. The parliament has imposed the obligation to pay that tax and only the Parliament can end it by its decision, unless the Government suggests it is quite clear that it will not happen. And that's why I'm appealing to you, there's time precisely for this delay, and there's time for us to do it as soon as possible. However, not only the income tax, the income tax was not the subject of an increase in the past years. I spoke more publicly about this, in 2018, we had two years in a row in 2018 and for 2019 an increase in the tourist tax, although in previous years the tourism community's income at the state level grew from home income by more than 20 million kuna per year. So the tourist communities at this point have at least had to have if they had any, but had the wise management of the money that was coming to them with supplies. Why does it matter, because at some point when this crisis is over, and Croatia will have to immediately seek its place on the tourist market. We have certain comparative advantages for other countries, while Croatia can be reached by motor vehicle, you can choose a much easier journey to Croatia than in Tunisia, for example, or another overseas country. Therefore, I appeal to the Ministry to prepare a crisis communication programme that will be ready at the moment when the measures are released, not only in Croatia, but also in other countries for activated so that the Croatian tourist product is further advertised in the broadcasting markets. In this way we will ensure that what is saved from this tourist season is saved that, but this should be considered already, we should start preparing videos, we should find markets on which we will advertise more strongly and should be ready that when the recovery train starts we will be the first in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196704	Thank you to the esteemed representative of the coat of arms. Minister, do you need something final? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196705	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's a few questions you're still here to answer. So we have income tax. a flat tax ranging from 150 to 1,500 kuna, which determines the height of the unit of local self-government. That flat tax we delayed payment, that's one thing. The second pauser is a tourist tax or tourist fees however we want to, however we understand it, it is also a flat-rate and it also determines its height, so we decentralized it and determined a private accommodation package determines the units of local self-government and the price fixed for the hotel means by tourist when the salary comes at night. For the first six months, we have wiped out practically, and it will not be paid for 108,000 private renters and it is deleted for the first 6 months and will not be paid. Paushal, the third pausal which is the third one is the membership fee, so the third one is the membership fees that I just said they will go into a package of parafiscal duties. So we can regulate it by regulation to be one kuna, let's say, when it comes to always talking about private renters. At this point, we put membership aside because it is treated practically as a parafiscal load. So on that side we have three cobwebs, we've solved two, this third one will go parafiscal. So to be clear, that part of 6 months from the residence tax is practically around 164 million kunas that we deleted for the first 6 months and will not have to pay the owners of apartments and holiday homes. As for Mrs. Dark Taritash, she asked before why she knew language, not language, etc. It's in a situation we've put where now agencies small that count perhaps three, four employees go to the head of the agency to expose the vd and that widow accidentally doesn't know the language and to the possibility that they can function. As for works and resources that the local self-government unit does not have, it is a matter of the local self-government unit to find a model, and I suggest that this model be a factoring model that I, as well as the mayor, once upon a time when it was lauding and brimming with factoring, so which is allowed by law, so within one budget year, it can be taken to take a certain factoring, use to pay for the contractor and to work further, and as far as the permits are concerned, whether or not they can work or not, it brings the unit of local self-government based on the request of the tourist community, the tourist community must give permission to the local self-government unit whether it will be able to work from when, until the law is until the end of last year, so. If they have made a request, it is usually in the range of 15.6. to 15.9. As for the loan, HBOR's loans, the tourism ministry has prepared one, so one programme to place 596, 7 million, let's say, about 600 million kunas unambiguously, for 3 years. We will co-finance the interest of 24 million and 100 thousand kuna. It's a program, by the way, that was for competitiveness, which we were giving away by the Ministry of Tourism. What Mr. Peđa Grbin has asked for measures if there is an activity, if we can say, to be ready, etc., the Croatian Tourist Board has already prepared measures and we have just Monday or Tuesday a video link to the meeting of the HTZ Council where we will define whether it is still to be corrected. Based on 17 directors of HTZ's office outside Croatia who give us weekly reports in which direction, how, what happens in these countries, what our competition in these countries is doing, in this situation, which is practically impossible, but we get concrete measures every 7 days from them and reports and based on these reports and their proposals we are somehow preparing the first programmes if and when it starts, which will be. According to some of our findings and what we've been able to locate, so somehow the nautica will wake up a little bit better because it's thought to be somehow isolated, let's call it, especially the owners of the ships that are tied up in the marinas. They will come to their ships and go to ports, i.e. outside the big center, they won't have that much contact, they'll feel, let's call it, safer, let's say somewhere on Kornati and so on. and the first market that began to wake up specifically and think about tourism is China. So all the other markets are frozen at this point, I can say and we'll still prepare everything and the moment we evaluate both our offices outside and diplomacy and all say it's the first signal based on those reports, we'll go, of course, to try anything to run. We'll be ready for it and from the funds that have been booked, if we can say for marketing and PR services we're already part of something and we're doing it, but we're preparing the right one, which is said to be campaigning at the time that's possible. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196706	Thank you, Minister. We have one replica. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196707	Seven seconds. Mr. Secretary, thank you for your reply. So what is, something, factoring something and costing, but what is important, therefore, is that there is awareness that the units of local self-government whose income depends on the tourist season, which have some investment before the tourist season that started before all this, that they are in an even worse situation than others and that this ministry, the Ministry of Tourism, will be able to address for one special aid in relation to all other local self-government units as it will probably apply to the Ministry of Agriculture for those, those units of local self-government that have a problem in the agricultural area, etc. Here, it's my appeal for you to be, and it's a good thing that you were mayor, I remember you from that time, we were in that mandate and in the Parliament, so you have an understanding of that part and, of course, for the islanders who now and can't really travel to the island and then those workers who would normally do it in a normal situation, I can't even do it right now. So that's another problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196708	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196709	The appeal must be good, the proposal must be clear anyway. That all of these 7, especially the county depends on most of the seas on tourism leaning and that one model of the way of financing, which I say here is one of the proposals is exactly that factoring over HBOR which would then be really minimally cost that at 2, 3 years. I think that this way we would find one of the exits safe, which would accept local self-government units, and wouldn't stop preparing some of the future ones because we're practically getting ready for 2021, and that way we'll have to think for sure that our goal is to keep our workforce, liquidity, and get ready for 2021 as well as we can. And that is how we look at the Ministry of Tourism and in the Croatian tourist community which is also preparing its... Here, thank you very much, Vice President, thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196710	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We've had a full discussion with this, I'm closing the hearing at 18.28. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll continue our session Monday at 9.30 a.m. with a free speech. You've been e-mailed to the agenda and schedule. Thank you. Have a nice, pleasant evening. Session aborted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196711	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the provision of services in tourism. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by GLAS Representatives' Club and MP Tomislav Panenic. The first amendment of the GLAS Club is to Article 4. Here you go, Mr. Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196712	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The amendment to Article 4 shall not be accepted. The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the condition of knowledge of foreign languages, including knowledge of Croatian language to the extent sufficient for the provision of these services, must be a business decision or leave to the responsibilities of individual entrepreneurs, the owner of tourist agencies, to seek or not seek the knowledge and level of knowledge or knowledge of the foreign languages of their business leaders. To demonstrate the level of language level B2 and A2 according to the degrees of the common European reference framework, the most frequently required additional time and cost for the owners of tourist agencies or persons who wanted to be business leaders was because only those testimonies, beliefs about the knowledge of foreign language which contained indications of the level of knowledge B2 and A2 could be accepted as appropriate for registration in the list of tourist agencies. Therefore, many were forced to give further evidence to some of the schools of foreign languages or possibly other educational institutions that the level of their knowledge set out in these documents corresponds to the required levels of B2 and A2. This reduction in the conditions for business leaders should, in particular, be accepted as a consequence of the announcement of an outbreak of Kovid disease in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in order to reduce obstacles to the start-up or provision of services by tourist agencies at all, but also as a measure of liberalisation of the market for services.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196713	Mrs. Dark Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196714	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, we live in a very unusual time. In time, we're a people and a nation who like to shake hands, we hug each other, we see each other for a long time behind that, and we see each other again, we live in a time when it's not like that anymore. We are left to understand each other, so that when someone says or suggests something, they understand what it is. We understand all those changes to the laws that need to be, which are related to the threat that we have with the coronary virus. And you can see that no matter what we're an opposition and no matter what we're going to do, we're going to vote for it and vote on it. It's a law called the Tourism Service Act. We have come to a certain level with our tourism. To get to that level, it took us a very, very long time, and to bring it down below the level, we need a very short one. When the law was under discussion in parliament, we pointed to a number of things, especially when it came to tourist guides and you see that we did not give the amendment here regarding you being restrictive, to limit everything else, and now under the threat of the crown virus you decided to make an amendment to the law and to say that when it comes to tourism that the leader should not have a foreign language. That means the coronary virus has enlightened us in a way that we can say when it comes to the head of tourism, he doesn't need to know foreign language. I'm interested, because all of these laws that are are are supposed to work during the crown, so during the crown, they don't have to know a foreign language, and maybe when the crown stops, they'll have to or they don't have to know. Nice vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196715	Thank you very much. The now respected representative Mr Tomislav Panenic has an amendment to Article 1. Here you go, Mr. Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196716	Thank you. The amendment to Article 1 is not accepted because, although there is no infringement provision for non-compliance with the provision, internet platforms are expected to respect it. In particular, internet platforms are known to be large businesses that care to carry out their activities by respecting the laws of the countries in which they provide services to the service provider for the sake of their already acquired reputation and successful future business with service users. The provision also allows Internet platforms to ask the service provider for data on the tax number or VAT identification number because it is also prescribed by the positive regulations of the country in which they provide services, which contributes to the seriousness of their business. In view of the recent problems of major platforms in advertising inadequate accommodation, and in order to maintain market reputation and consumer protection, commitment by internet platforms is expected. The same should result in a reduction in both illegal business and unfair competition in relation to legal service providers, as well as respect for the obligations of service providers prescribed by the rules governing catering activities, tourist tax, membership in tourist communities and taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196717	Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196718	Secretary of State, you've now pronounced discrimination. You said that internet platforms connecting accommodation providers with users are serious entrepreneurs and that there should be no sanctions at all because they will respect what you have stated. State Secretary I would also ask you to transfer to the Prime Minister that we cancel during the crisis, primarily during the crisis all provisions sanctioning Croatian entrepreneurs and all other entrepreneurs operating in Croatia for anything, which is mentioned in any law because of what you say and I agree that Croatian entrepreneurs will respect all the provisions that are in the law because they are serious entrepreneurs. I think that's the rule we should make to change our legislation. Let us abolish these violation provisions all and we will all be very serious and respect Croatian laws. I'd say it's in the spirit of what you suggested here. One very innovative, advanced idea and I support it as such and will be supported by all our entrepreneurs. But we go back to a reality that is not like that, and in the end I ask you how some platform will accept such a provision in the first place, and now it will only change on its pages for Croatian service providers and not put a tax number on others. So it will be automatically if you log on to Airbnb there for Croatians, you must first enter our OIB or you cannot submit your request at all. I hope that is how you agreed with the providers and that it is only the conditions for Croatian entrepreneurs and that it will be recognised if we are from Croatia we have special conditions and it is always us who are something special, but I tell you they will not accept it so we have one more empty provision. We're looking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196719	Thank you. Now Mr Tomislav Panenic also has an amendment to Article 3 and to Article 4 in one amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196720	I thank Mr. Vice President, I would be happy to step up with Mr. Panenic, but the rules don't allow me, but only in general I will say that all the measures we implement, we only implement with one intention, to help everyone in tourism and survive, and that the measures we have foreseen to help them survive their business and to keep their jobs. So all the measures are in this direction in no other direction in which it is insumed here. Al, therefore, amendment to Art. 3. is also not accepted because the proposal to be in art. Paragraph 2 of the current law deletes the words ‘3.g.’ more restrictive than the provisions of the applicable law. Namely, a decree. 17th century 2nd of the current law refers to cases of legitimate prevention, sick leave, maternity leave and similar or termination of the working relationship of the head of the business to which the tourist agency could temporarily, but no longer than 6 months in 3rd year. for the performer of those tasks, determine the person who fulfils all the conditions for the head of the business, except that he has passed a professional examination for the head of the business. It is now proposed by the law through the amendment of the Article. Paragraph 2 of the 17th century may be determined by a person who fulfils only the condition that he has at least a secondary education arrangement. This provision does not apply to the situation under special circumstances. The conditions to be met by the conductor of business management under special circumstances relating to the declaration of an outbreak of COVID-19 disease in the territory of the Republic of Croatia are laid down in Article 19. 17th, added chapter 3, and that condition is only for a job operator to have at least high school equipment. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 17, in addition to Article 4, the deadline of 6 months after the completion of the COVID disease outbreak is prescribed until the provision of Article 3 can be applied, after which the Head of the business must also fulfil the condition that he has passed a professional examination for the Head of the business.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196721	Thank you. Mr. Panenić has, just a little bit, Mr. Panenic now has his third amendment, and that's on him. Seven, two, two. Here you go, Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196722	Okay, thank you very much. In fact, what is it? Of course, the intensity of the amendment itself is to make it easier to administratively, not only to be a temporary solution but to be a permanent solution, and here I will also say that I should actually expect the entrepreneurs to recognize what a quality workforce is and that it provides quality, and in the end the market will recognise it as such. Two criteria, the possession of medium professional training and the test which ultimately shows the qualification of this is quite enough for someone to carry out, so the state body has the opportunity to check through this. So we're close to this thinking is just this one detail where basically it should be one permanent state that doesn't happen to us later that we have additional criteria, to set deadlines, to put pressure on the entrepreneur, would actually be the entrepreneur, and would actually accept that he sends the employee to pass that exam that is needed to perform, and in the end, that you're easier and you're actually advanced so that we don't give extra deadlines in which we pressure the entrepreneur to do something, and with this we would actually open up a bigger space. Here, I'd like a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196723	Thank you very much. Finally, Mr Panenić has his third amendment in two articles. 7th and Art. 12. Here you go, Mr. Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196724	He's got it on his ankle. Four, but good, I can do it first. Seven?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196725	Seven and twelve.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196726	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Amendment to Art. 7. is not accepted for the reason that it is an art. Paragraph 2 of the 73rd century. 3. the applicable law prescribed that the tourist guide must know the language in which it will provide tourist guide services, according to the degrees of the common European reference framework, which means that the provision applies equally to Croatian citizens, nationals of the other Contracting State of the Treaty on the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation, and nationals of countries other than Contracting Parties to the Treaty on the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation, but have a registered residence in the Republic of Croatia. These third-country nationals may, in accordance with Article. 69th century 3rd of the current law to provide tourist guide services. Therefore, it is not necessary for tourist guides who are not Croatian citizens to prescribe additional terms for Croatian language knowledge because when a tourist guide who is not a Croatian citizen provides services in Croatian he must know the Croatian language at level B, B2 according to the provisions of Article. Paragraph 2 of the 73rd century. 3rd law in force.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196727	Here you go, Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196728	It is precisely a matter of providing services, the quality of service is also connected to this, to this amendment that I have provided. So, a foreign citizen who is on the side of the language comes and runs a group in a Croatian space, city or other place, and if someone asks him if you can help me here, he'll say we're sorry, but I don't know Croatian. So, I can tell you everything, I can tell you about this hotel, but I don't know how to ask at the reception that, in Croatian, you don't know how to ask for something to solve that would be part of it. I think that, don't narrow down exactly the role of tourist guide, it's actually a person who not only talks about it, but also that a group that leads to it being solved in any situation and I think that if a foreign language has to know at B2 level, that the minimum should be that and the Croatian language knows at that level that it can communicate and solve the problems that are related there. But I would immediately, in this amendment there is also that provision that you did not show yourself about conditioning the forms of business of a tourist guide. I don't know why you're going to further prescribe it whether I personally don't consider it, but it's prescribed by other laws which define the provision of services, means being in a working relationship or by an act contract or some other form is prescribed by other laws, and I find it unnecessary to further bureaucratise this law, to specify an item in which it is actually required that it be a contract, that is, I believe that this is meant for us. I don't know if until now it didn't mean that a tourist guide must have a contractual obligation or if he was doing it on black. So he broke our other laws, the Labour Act, and some other laws, so it doesn't matter that we only have the law, in this law that's stated because all other laws prescribe it. We're looking for a vote on this. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196729	Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Act on the provision of services in tourism, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 905. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by GLAS Representatives' Club and MP Tomislav Panenic. We have made a statement earlier, and we will now vote on those amendments that the Proposer does not accept. The first one is the club of representatives of the Voice, so the government does not accept. Who's in? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. MP Tomislav Panenic's amendment is not accepted by the government. Who's up for the amendment? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. The second amendment of the same representative is not accepted by the Government. Who's the anger? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. And Amendment number three of the same MPs is not accepted by the government, so please let's vote on who's in favour. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We will now vote on the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provision of services in tourism. Who's against it? No. Who's restrained? Please count. And who's in? I find that most of the votes were passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provision of services in tourism 126 is for, 4 abstentions and no one is against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196730	The next item is a set of tourism laws. We've already accepted a united debate here. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Tourism. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Minister of Tourism Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196731	Your Honor, Vice President, Mrs. Assembly MPs and MPs. So we're going to unite this, I'm going to say a few words just to say which major changes are happening in the laws themselves. But I'd say at first, remind myself maybe because I see there's been a lot of conversation in terms of whether tourism is sufficiently provided, not being helped, tourism is specific because we have to look at it horizontally. So the measures that have been taken can practically say 80% of the measures concern tourism itself and help tourism, ranging from 4,000 kuna personal income to all other measures that are mentioned several times today. Evidence that these measures can also be met at this point in most hotel houses and tenants, and this law will change something that will certainly be important for tourist guides. So more segments with what laws are, which are measures that are horizontally affected and satisfied at this point to retain primary labour force and to sort of address the liquidity issue. As for the important things that are certainly beyond personal income and all that is today and the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government for speaking and presenting the laws and measures concerning all, and I say tourism is very important, it is proof that the associations themselves have responded, that the employees themselves have responded and confirmed that at this stage practically everything that has been covered in some way and could have been covered in this second phase. Of course, as the prime minister has already announced, it is still going to prepare measures that will certainly contribute to people who work in tourism, and especially those 108,000 private tenants who certainly expected to take some part of them into some kind of shelter and care for them, regardless of which they are mostly natural persons, but these intentions that were very important and pointed out. So, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tourism Service Act, I may say one of the most important things that not to go yet in detail are technical details. The most important thing about that is the possibility of a voucher, so what we talked about, the possibility of a voucher. So all those who have paid their arrangements that at this point, of course not the agency is brought into a position that we certainly do not want to bring, and that we give opportunities and consumer protection, on the other hand, that if they want to after 180 days for those 180 days, they will get a voucher, after 180 days if they do not want any other trip or other trip chosen, they will be able to get the payment of what they have paid on, so for, for that trip they planned. It was a deal, therefore, with both the sector and the tourist agencies. Let's count that some 6500 employees work in tourist agencies without seasonal staff and that it's very important that these are those small and medium and smaller tourist agencies that may count any time and less than 5 employees. For them, I can say that other than these legal changes we have prepared a credit i.e. I can say that and that it is not a credit card, there will be no interest on them, so we can say liquid assets that will certainly come well to such small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, hotels up to 50 rooms, small agencies, especially some 600 million kunas that we will place, so also give one injection where the Ministry of Tourism will cover the interest rate, so that you will be on 3.g. No interest, no interest. So these are mostly tourist agencies, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, hotels I repeat up to 50 rooms. That's what I say in this part of the Tourism Service Act. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Household Activity Act is certainly the important thing where we will catch up to a large part of all the tenants. So, they had an obligation to those who had registered before 1 September 2007 in terms of categorization, they won't have to, it's been their obligation since this year to go into recategorization, they won't have to go into recategorization this year, we move it practically all by 1.g. So they kind of don't have those obligations. As for the second part of the categorization, it's according to hotels and camps. As you know, everyone else has an obligation, hotels, and every 4 years. to categorize the i.e. The new retegorization or control, let's call it that and we gave them a chance, so in these conditions when they don't and don't have any activities to transfer it to next year and that there are no other costs. In the same way as the facilities that made the request in time for legalisation. However, they have not yet come to receive an answer, i.e. a legalisation solution. They had a temporary opportunity to deal, so rent apartments and rooms. This way we extend the possibility that they can continue to deal with it for the next year until they get regular legalization. As far as the proposal of the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism is concerned, there is one of the important things that we must do in some way, given the current law which says that tourist communities cannot be in debt above 10%, and wages above 40%, they would come in some way and into a problem because they will certainly need funds that are not income-free now because there is no activity, there is no residence tax, these are the largest funds they have from the residence tax, i.e. tourist fees or membership fees. Since these funds... In some ways we are asked to allow them in some way, and in this way ours have agreed that these 313 tourist communities in all have the possibility of, of course, each at the level of opportunity they have, the President will decide that. Councils of the Tourist Community or the Assembly, may, therefore, be in debt and above 10% if necessary, at this time when they have tourist activities that can in some way come to fresh money, liquidity and prepare for the possible step needed for that part of the tourist year if possible. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the Law on Tourist Communities and Part Two as regards the bodies being elected, so within the tourist communities, we would in this way give the possibility because of the special circumstances that are not at this point, because it is practically impossible to implement in 313 tourist communities the choice of the body, so we would put it on the a/a what they would say about this time while the events are those that are, so that the existing bodies continue to work and this way if we accept it as a change, continue to work and have, therefore, the full responsibility they have so far and that after these special circumstances that they have come up again the choices of all the bodies that stand out this year because I simply say it would be impossible to hold elections in 313 tourist communities, councils and all that, so it would be under the new law that we adopted last year in the assembly. So these changes are I'm saying, they simply provide an opportunity for easier business, easier opportunities for the minister in certain segments to react to, say, the height of the residence tax that we'll then edit by regulation. In the meantime, we also brought two regulations to the government a few days ago, but these are two important regulations that sort of release that part of the concession in camps and in tourist settlements and land, tourist land around the hotel. So that's how we gave the possibility through these two regulations that for the first 6 months we practically gave for one kuna i.e. no payment of tourist land concession in camps. As for, for, for, for, for, that part is variable, and for the fixed part to be paid, so until 31 August we extended to 31st November with the possibility that this first part that is variable is that, therefore, there is no payment unless there is any activity in those camps or hotels that have land touristically with this part in the camps being state-owned, and this part that is under the units of local self-government, land around the hotel, of course, is the part that went towards, paying towards local self-government units. So, those two things we've given for now, we've given the possibility that the first part won't be paid at all, as well as this part of the residence tax that we've taken down completely for the first six months. It's when you look at the main beds and extra beds that have entered the new law this year, it's about 164 million pardons for the first 6 months. We will see the basis of the activity in the second part of the year, if necessary, we will release that second part of the year of the tourist tax. That's what I'm saying, the part that's for private renters, and I say it somewhere around 108,000. This is how we looked at covering this whole section in each segment, giving through these horizontal laws the possibility of the liquidity of personal incomes, the possibility of moratories on loans given and one part of the possibility of raising these loans that are unambiguous, which will provide the possibility through the Ministry of Tourism of the first 600 million. And, of course, in further stages, we're going to look at that membership fee that this is, if someone is probably a couple of people already asking that membership option, we're going to put it together in that basket, which would be the parafiscal charge we're talking about these days, and they're definitely going to come up on the agenda, and then when they get to the agenda, there's going to be a question of this membership fee, which will then be in a package of parafiscal duties. Mr. Grbin, you've asked me about whether or not employees can come in, otherwise from next week HZZ will put some new rules, obviously some are already trying to use, unfortunately every law tries to find a model how someone can already use the possibility of putting someone into a 4,000 kuna measure, so in any case it will be possible, but not for this month but for the next month, unless they fire any more workers, they will be able to receive their employees again in the 4th month. And it's also true about what you told me about what he wanted to do if he wanted to see every employee he had received if they didn't fire any of them and he's very welcome and he'll be able to be in those measures. Since Monday, Tuesday is going to be a little bit rougher here because obviously somewhere someone wants to take advantage of a leak, so those measures will be even better protected if I can say so then next week you'll get an even better answer. But at this first moment in this way, I can tell you that it will. Here, Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196732	Thank you, Your Honor. We've got four replicas, the first respected representative of the Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196733	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Minister, you were talking about a residence tax, you were talking about tourist fees or membership fees, but I may have missed it, but I'm not sure I've heard from you, either from Minister Marić, to answer another question which at the moment is extremely tight for our private renters, which is the question of the flat. So, in those March measures, it was possible to postpone the payment of the sheets, but you and I are also aware that, for example, in the second quarter, there was no and there will be no guests, there will be no tourism, there will be no income. My question to you is, are we gonna go further with the sheets off, first for the second, and then I'm probably afraid for the next quarter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196734	The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196735	Thank you very much, Vice President. So in the first three months, there have been some activities as well, because the results also say in the nights and arrivals of tourists, so 1st, 2rd, 3rd month, we'll see what it is, but in any event, it will be considered 4th, 5th and 6th and further if there is no activity of course that will be discussed very seriously. I personally said where no kuna was earned wouldn't be logical if we were to charge a tax. Therefore, in any case and this will be discussed, so far it is possible to postpone payments. For the first three months I'm saying we've had results that are about 30% down, but surely your proposal and the proposal that applies to these things will certainly be well considered and will be in the direction where there has been no activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196736	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196737	The Honorable Ministers. It's absolutely clear that you need to come with a set of laws to adapt certain things to the extraordinary circumstances that have arisen from the crown of the virus. But we seem to have a series of things in the GLAS club that have nothing to do with the coronary virus. I ask you a concrete response to the Household Activity Act, where you are related to the catering activity in the households, to introduce a provision that, in exceptional circumstances, the Minister can therefore prescribe certain actions in the case of categorisation or the conditions to be given. Why the deviation? What's it about if it's a coronary virus and people can't even get there? What do you need this provision for? That provision may take you a day later to have some deviations when you start working that they have, but it has nothing to do with this threat that's with you. So I'm asking you nicely that it was the idea of a promoter through that provision that was added to you. 41.a.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196738	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196739	The deviations were in retegorization just like I said they didn't have to retegorize the objects. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196740	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196741	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I have a few questions that are of a technical nature. So in the first set of laws, we've seen a lot of companies in the tourism sector that will apply for certain measures, I'm interested in how to valorize and evaluate those companies, and in your sector there are a lot of them that started working 1.5 or 1.7 last year. So they won't be able to enter these categories of 20 and 50% traffic since they don't have a reference period. The other thing I'm curious about is whether it's been thinking about the government and these people who ended up in the last few weeks on the stock market, getting them back into the system in a way that these 4,000 kunas are recognized and that people can finally re-apply to their companies, so there's a lot of these unsaid things. What bothers me, too, is that you have been thinking more about how to make up for the tourist community's money, rather than freeing the membership fees in the long term, for example, from the Croatian company of the tourist community, that would mean a lot more to them in the future as regards reduced parafiscal burdens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196742	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196743	Dear Parliamentarian Maras, I just said about the tourist membership fee that it is going as a parafiscal imposition and it will as such be in a package of parafiscal intrusion. That's why we didn't take it into consideration now, otherwise she would certainly be here today and we would have discussed it in a similar way as we discussed the tourist tax, so the same approach would be. So, we're just waiting for this package that will be parafiscal burdens and it will be in that package certainly in a certain way solved because, of course, if there was no activity of course, there will certainly not be a bigger problem of thinking about whether or not it should be cut. So that part of me personally in that direction I made a proposal, so that's what's going to happen. As for those employees you said about last year's companies in the 5th month, we'll take a certain average and they'll consider the same. So it won't work out, for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196744	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196745	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, it is known that every 6 kuna is earned in Croatia in the catering and tourism sector. It's not the sector's fault in itself, and I wish it was much more in absolute numbers or absolute amount earned in tourism, but of course other industries are growing much more and better. We of the GLAS Club will have some objections to some of the solutions that you have proposed here because we believe that in this situation, quality should not be undermined in our sleep. So we have to do everything to make our tourism and hospitality even better, even better capacitated with a higher level of tourist service after this crisis. For years, tourism and hospitality as a branch have actually held both left and right remains of Croatian industry and agriculture. Now that this branch is in a major crisis, for example in Istria, which generates 30% of the tourism incomes for these people and hands and feet, they've held us above water for years, and they've actually produced one product that we're famous for. That's why you need to keep quality as high as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196746	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196747	Thank you very much. I totally agree, I didn't want to today because it's not even time to discuss the results last year's results, but since it came out yesterday, the day before yesterday from the National Bank, the CNB score for last year's financial year, so 11% more income than 2018, so the best result ever, I say, is hard to talk about these results because as you see very rarely and I don't mention it anywhere, but most importantly that last 3 months last year we had a 34% increase in income. So we speak 10th, 11th and 12th months, so we have definitely come to the fact that Croatian tourism has been an entire year of tourism, not more tourist peak of the season. It should also be reminded when it is said that in the first 3 months, we are making 5% of the tourism income, in the first 6 months we are accomplishing about 27% of the total, the first 6 months, and that way we will need to watch when we talk about all these measures, always be of when, as it was realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196748	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Now let's go with the club stand. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Bozo Petrov. He doesn't have the right words to lose. The second reported is the Live Wall and SNAGE Representatives' Club, Ivan Lovrinović, also lacks it, loses the right. The third is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, Marin Škibola, and he's not here either. She's next in line for the GLAS Representatives Club, the distinguished representative of Anka Dark Taritash, she's here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196749	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers and State Secretary, we have four laws and four amendments to the law. Tourism is an extremely important branch. What we've been showing all this time, and that's the trouble, the nemano or everything that happened to us with the coronary virus, has shown that it's not good that we're just hanging out on tourism. The Corona virus actually made it first, that great nemesis did the damage to tourism first. I am deeply hoping that it will not last long and as we are known as the destination so-called. I hope that this summer will at least be partially saved. What the minister said in response to his colleague, Beus Richembergh, which is that we were able to achieve a few things. If tourism wasn't just defined by the summer months, we really have a whole year and we managed to achieve one thing that is extremely important, which is the level of tourism. We were a country that was characteristic of offering the beach, a towel on the beach and accommodation. It turned into something else. It takes a lot of work, a lot of effort, a lot of engagements. Let's not let one move make it easy for us to give it up. We really have to take care of the day after, we can't afford to ruin what we had the day after. I absolutely understand that the crown has caused great confusion about tourism. The confusion in hotels, therefore in hotel accommodation, as well as confusion and private accommodation, so it was common practice to settle during winter, arrange individual private accommodation and wait for who's stuck on Easter rifle, so with Easter which is this year's 12th April, which is a good date, starts. Everything's changed. No one expected that this would happen, things will certainly change when it comes to tourism in the City of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb is really late, and from here when you leave there is almost no house in which it does not say that it has any apartment. This may make it easier for other things, it may cheap rent apartments in the City of Zagreb, but it is another topic. So language knowledge, this even this experience we've decided ok, maybe it's really our problem but that language knowledge that someone deals with tourism without language knowledge, I'm afraid it won't work. And the fourth law that is the Household Activity Act. Everything where you extend deadlines, where you give people the opportunity to really not go crazy about categorizations right now, is absolutely acceptable to us. But what I told you in the replica, which is next. You added article 41a. which has the title of carrying out catering activities and providing catering services in the household and on the family holding under special circumstances. Let's try to understand, if the conditions are special circumstances, and that's the crown, there's no one there to provide anything because it's forbidden for anyone to provide anything in terms of tourism and hospitality. When the threat ceases they will continue to work according to what they were before, the categories will continue to apply to them, they will have a deadline to extend the categories, they will have a deadline to adapt which is absolutely legitimate. You have to give them the opportunity to really people in all of this situation that they're not in the crazy yet, and now I have to turn in a request somewhere. The example is, just to make one comparison, so who has nothing to do with you having to do with the law we discussed before, that was the accounting law where all accounting was freaked out because they had to hand over something to Finni by a certain date and they were absolutely freaked out, and now through this amendment of the law is an extended date which is okay. But for someone who can't right now because of the threat that we're putting this law into practice, you're bringing in article 41a. which shall be authorised by the Minister to, with the prior consent of the Minister of Fire, because you do not dare to do so, and the area of health shall prescribe derogations. What do we need these deviations for? These deviations or you need them all the time, so you will have it all the time, but for now you don't need deviations when you can't even do it during the crown, what will prescribe for you the deviations of someone who doesn't work. So, here, okay, you're going to have a chance to explain in the final word what it's about, you're going to have a chance, we've already given these amendments and you're going to have a chance to say in the explanation of the amendment that maybe we misunderstood something that I can, absolutely let us understand something wrong, but this way that it's written is absolutely unacceptable. Let me conclude my argument. We absolutely need to keep an eye on this entire tourism sector that we've been hanging out on so that he can get to work as soon as possible, the day after. At the moment he's able, the day after he starts working, we have to allow them both left and right to really work, because they, they're the fastest to adapt to some new conditions, and they, if they adapt to some new conditions and something starts, we can have some good situations. But in doing so, we can't cover up that unfortunate, unknown, some kind of virus that's come out of nowhere, turned into the neman who's ruled this world in this situation, we can't do everything we've done well so far, you can do well, you know, it says you're doing well, and then by one false move you fall down, we can't make that wrong move because then we're not going to solve that wrong move for six months or a year, we're going to solve it for the next 10 years. In that sense, we at the GLAS Club have made amendments to each of these four amendments and amendments. These amendments, of course, we wanted to limit some things that are exclusively related to the crown, we pointed to some things that we don't think should happen and depending on your attitude towards these amendments will also be our position regarding the vote. All that you in the tourism sector will help us to move faster and better, you will get absolutely whatever we are, the opposition party, we belong to a group of those small parties, but that's what we call ourselves, we're pretty loud and we're trying to be pretty loud and pretty reasonable and we think good decisions should be supported regardless of and reasonablely explained, but I don't want to be here, I've called it cowardly eggs going through some things that we'll have some damage and then we won't be able to get rid of for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196750	Thank you. The next debate is the esteemed representative of Anton Kleman on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196751	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I welcome Mr. Minister and Secretary of State, all colleagues and colleagues in charge of this agenda debate. First of all, I would like to commend the government's efforts and the measures it proposed in a horizontal sense, so that we all try with as little damage as possible to get out of this crisis, which is really so deep that we can't see it ourselves, its proportions and I think that the government has done a great job with this move, interacting with the interested public in the first place with employers, workers, with unions and has taken measures that seem to me to give a good perspective to the Croatian economy to come out of this really demanding situation with as little damage as possible. In any case, and these measures taken by the Government concern both employees and employers and in the tourism sector which I would say may be the most affected and the hospitality of course, I would say that it is the most affected by this crisis and, as such, I think, through these measures which we will now comment on and which we will look back on that it must be given a chance, therefore to the entire tourist and catering sector that, after the end of this crisis, it can retake its role in the Croatian economy as soon as possible, and it will not change in my court very long, the tourism activity will still be a peri-performing of the Croatian economy, and therefore we must really help the tourism to get into shape as soon as possible to carry out its tasks. This, these proposals for the laws proposed by the Ministry of Tourism, indeed have a purpose, have a purpose and are a good contribution to these horizontal measures of the Croatian Government and I would say that, that one common part of the efforts of the Croatian Government to stabilise the economy and to provide it under these conditions and to provide one perspective after the end of this crisis. So, this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tourism Act, I think it has well defined some things that should have been defined, and that is, first of all, this novel to prevent advertising and to reduce one presence to legal owners, so those who use themselves to advertise themselves through social networks and portals, that practically in a gray economy they take cakes to those who are registered legally and who pay their obligations, and it is very good to now define that in such ads, the highlighted identification number of service providers, i.e. VAT numbers, so that the less they are grabbed in this gray, black zone. This about erasing the terms of foreign languages and knowledge of Croatian language to a extent, etc., will probably explain it in the final word and State Secretary or Minister. So, there is a thing that will be put about these months ahead of us, however, I would like to touch one of the measures which, in principle, is good, and this is about traveling package arrangements under special circumstances due to unrealised travel where it is arranged in a way that puts the moratorium to an end of the contract for 180 days from the end of the special circumstances. And agencies can offer vouchers that will be secured by insurance policy and thus protect consumer rights. Here I think that maybe this measure should be extended because it is not only about travel agencies, but you know that there are many direct contracts and advance payments and which hotelers directly, so there were payments of direct arrangements to congress tourism that are being delayed, so the advances are already on the accounts of our companies, hotelers, in the camps too, renting camps. In private owners via booking.com, if you will, etc., etc., etc. and I think that this measure should be extended in a way to cover other than travel agencies and these service providers in tourism and that these same vouchers as a refund, as a means of repaying money, are used to do so from 1.3 to 15.9.2020, in particular, on cancellations, if during that period, that the vouchers are issued with a duration of up to 31.12.2021. So, the whole next year where the guest can use it for his services or some others, as the minister said. Or at that time to get his funds back. Already some EU members, in particular, France, have put this regulation in the legal process and it will be very interesting if it is useful, if this measure is accepted by us, because it is very important to relax the financial portfolios of our companies so that they can get through this crisis as painlessly as possible, and I will tell you from some estimates, that it is approximately now, that there should be a return of about 80 to 100 million euros, so in return for money, so here, the minister to look at this possibility, I think it would be very useful for these providers as well, such as hotelers, campers and private tenants, to enable them because we have already made a good decision in these horizontal measures, and these are the moratories on credit payments, etc., so not to burden them with this situation yet, it is an extraordinary situation and it would be good to respect it. As far as these laws are concerned, therefore, the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Attending Activity, this is indeed all commendable, this about recategorising hotels, camps, marinas and facilities in private accommodation, very good, reasonable, I think it's really to welcome these measures and it's quite ok. As for this previous law, let me just say that it is very commendable that you have entered this situation, therefore, about providing tourist guide services to the Central Register, that you have solved this, it is indeed a good, good decision that should remain permanent in that whole story further in the legislative proposal. Here, you'd replicate it in some way and your colleague Taritash, if it were a member's parafiscal imposition, and the residence tax isn't a parafiscal imposition, so we should make a clear distinction, and I would say that, as far as private tenants are concerned, that we've already cut off 50% of the pausals, the residence fees for the first six months and here, and I'd say, I'd like to commend the minister that he's been communicating all along, we'll see what happens to business in tourism in the next period, it's a very good approach. If there's no business, there won't be any payment, if we all get it right, and I think we are. small, small entrepreneurs, craftsmen, micro entrepreneurs who simply don't know how this crisis survives and how they can deal with certain costs. So much more important information for them is whether someone for example who founded the company or arranged the apartment last year at 9. The month and de facto does not have a reference period in relation to what Minister Maric has offered today, whether he too will be able to achieve certain benefits, whether HBOR will lend loans to people to endure this season that will not be and whether these funds will be able to use in terms of employment in terms of possible someone to take advantage of that period for some other things and whether they will have a perspective in some way that when they start working again in a normal way. These are the answers that they are plagued by and to which we should get an answer today, that is what the citizens are interested in. We are aware of how much this branch of the economy will be affected, I will not be particularly catastrophic, but we are all aware when Minister Bozinovic says that measures or Minister Beros will be taken when they say the course of measures will be analysed whether they will be abolished at 6. It is very difficult for the moon to assume that after the measures have been lifted here in a month our hotels and our apartments will be full. It is likely that this season will be very long and therefore it is very important to come up with measures to survive until the next full tourist season, which will start at 2nd, 3rd month next year. That's what we expect from the Croatian government and that's what we want to see. On the other hand, we can discuss, for example, the parafiscal burdens that I asked the minister here, one or two laws are linked to certain fees and tourist membership fees, but not in a way to free the companies of tourist memberships, but to see how the tourist community survives this year when they will not have the income they have had in recent years. And the amendment of the law is correct to allow them to simply keep people in one place, they will probably rationalise themselves in some part and as far as pay goes because we expect it from the whole state and absolutely starting with the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the measures must be applied as soon as possible because if some people remain without income overnight, if they have no salaries, one part of Croatia cannot act as if nothing is happening. So we expect and ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to measure this type as soon as possible, although I am aware of how important it is to keep some normal consumption in Croatia and to balance certain things because nothing is achieved by making total consumption go down, but we have to think about being rational. And on this side, I expect this crisis to be used for a full review of parafiscal burdens, complete revision and tourist membership, both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and to see if this concept is "very much of the institutions" that help a strong economy, and in general, this assistance is usually very small or none of which I mean the tourist communities that work for their cities. I know a lot of people who do a lot of good work, but for example, the Chamber of Commerce is a completely useless organization, and if we come out of this crisis, we still have a mandatory membership fee for the Chamber of Commerce, we have sent one of the worst messages from the public sector to the economy and to our citizens. So, on this side, we need to do a full review of the parafiscal burdens and I expect it in the way that these measures come in to discuss what we can now, not during the crisis, but to end forever, forever, the obligation to pay certain parafiscal duties and certain duties that are related to the monumental rent, perhaps towards the economy and certain burdens that are linked to the general use of the forest. So these are the things we need now when we are able to talk about everything that needs to be seen now and try to lay the foundations that the economy when the crisis ends can move forward as soon as possible. And that's what I think is supposed to be the main message from these discussions, and I'd like Croatian citizens to hear it from here, hear what we're thinking, what we want to do, what we're going to do right now, what's useful and what we're going to insist on in the end. I am sorry, and I ask you, Mr. Vice President, to tell the President of the Croatian Parliament that Croatian citizens do not listen, regardless of whether 40 people or 4 or 6 are irrelevant here, it is important that our citizens hear our views and hear what is offered in these laws. In particular, I said these four laws, as regards the Law on Supplements to the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism, I can say here that I understand the intensity that I support that the tourist communities are being maintained in some way, but I would also like the Croatian government to think about kindergartens in local self-government units. So we're thinking about tourist communities, and we're not thinking about kindergartens in local self-government units because cities no longer have income because children don't go to kindergarten and have income and can't, especially smaller financial powerful cities can't stand the full payout level and the question is how it's going to survive all the time. It's one school where salaries go from the state budget, but kindergartens don't have that option. On the other hand, the incredible situation in the town of Zagreb where it is late and there is no payment for private-owned kindergartens, where children go to the same as kindergartens, because there is not enough room. So it's something that's amazing that the government doesn't talk about it. So we remembered the tourist communities right away, and maybe I don't know in some town or municipality of 10 or 15 employees if it's bigger, if it's less 2-3, but the kindergartens in that municipality and the city don't remember, and there's also people who are going to have to start dealing with our children again tomorrow, raising our children, etc., and I'd like to say that the government is thinking a little bit wider, and when you give me this law in front of me right now, I have to mention it right now. The same thing is with the tourist tax, these things are not of crucial importance or I think anything would happen that we have not passed this law or the tourism service law that defines, I mean even a little strange and sounds, says the Covid-19 epidemic has been declared and is now being introduced to everything else and says then one of the key measures, i.e. the first measure of eradicating the terms of foreign language knowledge to the extent sufficient to carry out the job of the head of the tourist agency, and the work experience of 1 year. I think since the tourist agencies are not working at all at this point, I highly doubt that someone will consume this measure. So here we can do an analysis after 3 months or half a year, I doubt that now someone is going to resolutely consume this measure and it's going to mean something to him in life. A much more important measure is whether these tourist communities will be able to keep employees of these 4,000 kunas we talked about earlier, whether the tourist community will now, let's say, in this part, in this part, it won't be me, because everything will have income less than 50%. I'm more inclined to write off contributions and taxes at the level of 30% or 20% of this because I think it should be the intensity to try to help a part of the company maintain business, not that now someone who has a 40% income thinks whether it's more worth reducing income 10% and entering into the full government measure, I think we should lower that level so much we don't motivate people and somehow make them try, although they do it on their own, to try to maintain business. So here I wanted to, and I'm going to end up mentioning that this part of the law is not going to be crucial to the large part of the tourism sector. It will be important for the tourist communities, I support it. I say and appeal once again that the Minister through the Croatian Tourist Community will try to agree and see how they will survive that they will now not be fully burdened for some coming years with loans that will be only for the cold drive of this one, but I would rather talk here about HBOR's loans, we would rather talk here about how this sector will survive from today real 7, 8 months will probably not be or will be minimal if the situation is normalised in Croatia, the season will be as weak, it is not expected that some people will start travelling quickly. The most important thing is to hold out until next year. And that's what we need to talk about here, and hopefully, when the next set of measures comes, we'll have more information on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196752	Thank you, dear representative Maras. The next debate is on behalf of individual requirements, Nikola Grumoja, the distinguished representative, is not there to lose his right. Next reported is Miro Bulj, and he has no right to lose. The next is Commissioner Branko Juričev Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196753	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, we consider this package a good, encouraging and appropriate moment. Tourism contributes, contributed to the recognition of the Republic of Croatia, accounted for almost a fifth of Croatia's GDP, and is now one of the most affected branches and the economy sector. In addition, it should not be forgotten that many other activities and sectors are currently relying on tourism. It is therefore necessary to remove and mitigate this economic disturbance and make it easier to bridge this period. This is the biggest crisis since the Homeland War, and the big problem is we don't even know how long this is gonna take. So with the first set, the first package of measures helped the economy with 30 billion kuna and we hear that to date we have over 66,000 entrepreneurs who have applied for this measure by saving over 400,000 jobs. Most are now referring to the tourism sector. On 19 March, the work of catering facilities of all categories and accommodation services was suspended, and on that very day, the Croatian Parliament adopted 63 measures or a package of laws with 63 measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to save and preserve jobs and secure salaries for almost all economic restours. For tourism, the possibility of delaying the payment of the tourist membership fee, postponement or release of payment of the tourist tax is also prescribed, and different support is provided for the financing of crafts and the improvement of liquidity, as well as a delay in the payment of fees for the use of concessions on tourist land in campsites. A little while ago, a colleague named Peja Grbin asked what was wrong with the cobwebs. On March 23rd, a rule was adopted which reduces the flat-rate tourist tax by 50% and releases tourist fees for all extra beds for this year for people who provide catering services in the household or OPGs, and thus only small tenants who currently have 108 thousand are charged for 164 million kuna. This second set of measures proposes to amend 4 tourism laws where it wants to recharge both the financial and administrative tourism sectors, preserve jobs, secure liquidity. So we have a supplement of the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism, where the Government allows 313 tourist communities, as far as we have in the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Tourist Board, which are the holders of tourism development, to be financially indebted which can be more than 10%, of course, with the consent of the tourist council, president and guarantee of the unit of local self-government, and gives the possibility that even in the coming year the costs for the salaries of employees are more than 40% of the income of the tourist community. The tourism tax law allows the government to regulate different issues related to the amount of tourist tax as well as payment deadlines, purpose and method of distribution through the regulation. The government will therefore continue to monitor the development of the situation and react, if necessary, and we already have announcements from the finance minister, that aid will go to our citizens themselves in the coming period. The law on the provision of services in tourism, i.e. the amendment and addition of this law, changes the outcome of a solution on the authorisation to provide services with only a solution to meet the conditions and we have far simpler and easier conditions. I would not agree here with GLAS's Club of Representatives but I would say that this is exactly the help and the employees, the students and the pensioners to further make their incomes, and also the unemployed, so that under easier conditions, they can achieve an incentive for self-employment. Travel agencies also need according to signed contracts, now instead of returning money to enable vouchers to travellers and within 180 days or offer them some other routes, if they can't use it or don't want it, then they'll just get the money. So after this, there's no financial burden on all travel agencies that they have to go immediately with unrealised contracts. In the case of amendments and additions to the Household Activity Act We've heard we're going to an extension... [[Intruder: Time.]] Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196754	You have replicas, so you will. The first replica of the distinguished representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196755	Here's Mr. Juricev-Martinchev. Tell me, you mentioned companies, you mentioned now and the catering activity, in which way, in your opinion, from this measure we heard today and from Minister Marić and Minister Cappelli, in which way the state will be appointed and in which the molds will be molded by those who, for example, start working in the 5th month. Last year? So there are these, before the season they started, they opened their own locals, and when they compare traffic, they won't have all year, it won't be possible to compete at all with each other, and probably, if they're 3, 4 months. Last year they didn't work, they had zero traffic. So that's where they won't be able to show that their traffic dropped 50 percent and more. So there's a big hole for a serious part of the entrepreneurs that exists in the Republic of Croatia, and I don't think they've thought about it in the government, and I'm now appealing that maybe until the vote, that the government should have some amendment or ministry until Tuesday's vote to try to fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196756	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196757	A colleague of Maras. Well, I would also point out that this very package of laws and the whole package of measures is praised by and here, the Dalmatian entrepreneurs today who praise them, and then the Chamber of crafts, the Tourist Guides Community, all praise this package of measures, but a lot will be harmonised and prescribed by regulations or government regulations. A lot of freedom has been given to deal with right in the walk when some specific problems are encountered.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196758	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196759	Thank you very much, dear colleague Juričev-Martinchev. I'm interested in your attitude about one thing, I haven't seen it, I may have missed something, but we have the following situations, so we have people who are already last year, they have permanent guests, so they have 2, 3 apartments in their own house, they have permanent guests, and they've already taken some advances from them, now to say maybe a full amount for this season. They'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll, they'll... How did you think, your thinking, what would happen to them, they'd have to pay back at some point what de facto they wouldn't have? What is thinking and what is going to be done or are some kind of deadlines or something? I get a little attached to these vouchers and these 180 days and all together because if they're not going to be tourism, it won't be enough for 180 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196760	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196761	Well, colleagues of Anka Mrak-Taritash, well what you said, with travel agencies is foreseen, if you don't realize the contract that you can use the voucher within 180 days, the payment directly to the tenant, that's rare, I'd say, it's kind of a loan, it's probably some long-term guest with whom you already have half-friend relations, so it'll sort of be handled in private. What the Government of the Republic of Croatia can do, is exactly what the Ministry of Resort does, that 50% of the pausals freed them, delayed certain payments and other payments, and we expect if this time is not certain until when this is all going to last, it also releases additional fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196762	Thank you. And the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196763	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev, I hope I may have been a little clumsy in the expression when I spoke, but it seems to me that the minister fully understood me. When I was talking about the cobwebs, I was thinking about the income tax. So the income tax rate remains unresolved, we addressed these other problems and it's good that we did. However, our private tenants remain income tax rates and the same visa would be for what the minister was saying, no one talks about the first quarter, it's over, we're talking about the second quarter. The fact is that now with Easter, our tenants were expecting the beginning of the tourist season, the fact is that it will not be, the announcements say that the earliest in early June will begin with the reduction of measures, which says that the second quarter is lost and I think that it is already necessary to send a clear message that the second three months when we talk about income tax will not be charged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196764	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196765	Dear Grbin, it is true that the tourist tax, the cot has been reduced by 50% or to extra beds should not be paid at all for this year. That tax, or the cobweb you're talking about, is determined by the local self-government unit. As the Government of the Republic of Croatia has therefore been expected to meet its owners, and the tenants are expected to do so by local self-government units so that municipalities or cities can reduce or release them in a certain percentage.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196766	Thank you, Your Honor. The next individual debate of the distinguished representative Goran Aleksic, he is gone. Then we have the next individual debate of the esteemed Mr. Gordan Maras who is now entering.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196767	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry to keep you waiting, if I could sit on one of these free chairs, it wouldn't have happened, but you can see how tough the rules sometimes don't know life. So, so, let me say a few more things about concrete suggestions. I also have to react to my colleague, Branko, who just talked about how Hook supported her. I mean it's clear, they've supported the first measures. These are professional supporters of this proposal from the government of Mr. Plenkovic. And Mr. Ranogajac, former HDZ mayoral candidate in Krapisko-Zagorje County and Mr. Burilovic, former HDZ City Council president in Vinkovci and HDZ president in Vinkovci, means they cannot be expected to have criticism as has occurred from hundreds and tens of thousands of entrepreneurs in, in a group on facebook that has become the main articulator of this and the group that most articulates the demands of entrepreneurs and thus in these few weeks have fought for a status that, and the influence that HGK and HOK will never have because of what they unfortunately serve in this way but serve as one political incubator who has lost its meaning. I'm talking about HOK, some chambers, county and city work a little bit more quality, and for HGK, it's really hard to find out where they deal with less politics and more, more, more economics. Most politicians gave it at local or state level. I said Burilovic was very highly positioned in HDZ and defacted by HDZ there as president. So, I'd like to try to bring these measures together, and I support, after all, that we're taking these measures, we're a little late with them, but they're a lot more quality than they were first, but it's still not something that's going to get some special rewards. Most of these measures support and propose all other countries in the EU as well. When you look at it, it's really nuances and there's not much wisdom to do. The state should be in charge of preserving the economy, the point and the jobs and that as soon as the crisis stops, we continue with normal life and economic activity. So that's all the wisdom in this story. Whether it will be from domestic reserves, whether it will be from international reserves, whether Europe will issue so-called. The corona of bonds that the less developed countries have and which are more affected by the crisis, and not for those countries like Germany that are the most economic strongest in the EU, we will see that I hope that Europe will show solidarity and that, ultimately, after this crisis, we will say to Croatian citizens here you see that it is good that in this society, that in 2008 at least we were in that society, we would have returned to some economic flows much earlier than we had come back on our own until we were part of a larger economic community. So I expect the government to be there very effectively, not to be bureaucratized. I watched yesterday a statement from the head or minister of finance of the United States who said that entrepreneurs would get direct incentives, I also expect from the government, perhaps in the form of HBOR credit to a certain amount, if used for employment it would not be necessary to return in the next period, that incentives to small and medium-sized enterprises would be paid in two weeks, he also said yesterday that they had prepared such incentives that all 30 million small and medium-sized enterprises in America would be able to apply for it and that in two weeks they would pay the money. This is what Croatian companies need with this guarantee of employment at the moment, they need some money to survive by next year, next tourist season. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196768	Thank you to Honoring Representative Maras. The next debate is the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196769	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and Vice President of the Parliament, worthy civil servants and ministers. Here I think you should get an "A" from the pawn and then answer me in the final word, I only have two questions, and that's why I answered the debate. First, it concerns local self-government units in tourist areas, so it is generally local self-government units on the coast that were obliged to complete their construction work by 31st of May so that they can prepare themselves for the season. Now it is relatively clear that this season will be somewhat worse than many last season there until wartime and it is also a fact that given this seasonality that the works have already begun, and that units of local self-government have a reduced inflow into their budget by about 90%, and the question of what they will have in relation to last summer and it is evident that they will not be able to pay for these construction works that they have so far. So, my proposal is and here I am asking you to consider, and preferably to show yourself, that these units of local self-government are allowed not to write off but to raise a loan from the HBOR with a start of a year so that they can pay for what I can't pay right now. Because otherwise what can happen? They can be implemented, if they don't have an inflow of funds, but possibly from eu projects, they can get that part done, and then we'll have a double problem, so they won't have funds for eu projects, they won't have revenue from the budget and they won't be able to function at all. So, if that part could be loaned or loaned with a start of a year when the thing is normalized for them to bridge it back, my proposal is to make it possible for them to do so. And here's what I'd like to ask, and your opinion will be on a proposal like this, or one that would have that intensity, so that some loan can be used to bridge this time of income. And secondly, as far as all local self-government units are concerned, that's what I was saying the day before yesterday, when it comes to public lighting, to allow them at some point from HEP a preferential price for public lighting. So we've got empty streets, we've got dark streets that might show up as a demographic measure, but I don't think that's how it would be. Therefore, to see with HEP that units of local self-government can thus meet to give some preferential price that would only last during this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196770	Thank you to Honorable Representative Bauku. Replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196771	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, you have said and mentioned certain units of local self-government, but I am sure the minister also knows that because he is moving in his sector that there are very many companies, craftsmen, private persons who are in charge of this period to prepare their apartments, catering facilities all that is needed for the season to start and to be able to do business in some way. So I think it's very important and necessary to ensure that these people are provided directly with moratorium banks on loans, and I think it would be right for the HBOR to enter unambiguously for a year until the next season starts and that people are helped in this way. And if they keep employees for a period of three months after this three-month measure expires, even that part of their loan and the payments to the employees will be reduced. We have to think about it, there's a lot of people like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196772	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196773	I don't think I'll surprise anyone if I say I agree with you. There I would set one criterion, which is, for example, the Minister of the Interior, describing these restrictions on movement, which are essential jobs. So, the fact is that at this point, people who are in charge expect it justifiably will be able to recover their duties from the tourist season which will obviously be something weaker this year or will be totally weak, to allow them to return this year and that's it. So as people are limited to business, economic activity and movement for something that is not necessarily necessary, it is necessary with a moratorium for such things as we like to formulate it was not known or could not be affected to allow people to live a normal life and to overcome that year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196774	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196775	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. So what I was also talking about in the replica of the Honorable Mr. Minister, what has been repeated through the replica of a respected colleague is something that at this moment extremely torments private renters. Of course getting rid of paying a flat tax on the income of a small tenant won't save you, that's a fact. We don't have to fool ourselves and say it's going to be a rescue measure. However, the fact is that we have recently raised, we have raised or by law increased the classes of flat-rate income tax and extended them to extra-beds, thus creating for small tenants this year a far higher tax burden than it was in earlier years, and they do not have income. The delay measure has worked well so far, which is at least for the information that I have, almost everyone, if not everyone's request for a delay they've accepted, and that's fine. However, I will repeat once again, it is clear that the income in this quarter, which is before us in the second quarter of 2020, will be completely left behind. Tourism is gone, the borders of the Republic of Croatia are almost completely closed, movement between local self-government units is prohibited. If there is no movement, if you from Zagreb cannot come to Crikvenica then there is no tourism. Postponing okay, but only until it's written off. And that decision must be made by the Parliament because it is simply a commitment arising from the Article. 57. Income tax law. Art. 57th units of local self-government were only allowed to determine in the amount of 150 to 1,500 kuna the amount of which would be the flat-rate, but it was prescribed by the Parliament. The parliament has imposed the obligation to pay that tax and only the Parliament can end it by its decision, unless the Government suggests it is quite clear that it will not happen. And that's why I'm appealing to you, there's time precisely for this delay, and there's time for us to do it as soon as possible. However, not only the income tax, the income tax was not the subject of an increase in the past years. I spoke more publicly about this, in 2018, we had two years in a row in 2018 and for 2019 an increase in the tourist tax, although in previous years the tourism community's income at the state level grew from home income by more than 20 million kuna per year. So the tourist communities at this point have at least had to have if they had any, but had the wise management of the money that was coming to them with supplies. Why does it matter, because at some point when this crisis is over, and Croatia will have to immediately seek its place on the tourist market. We have certain comparative advantages for other countries, while Croatia can be reached by motor vehicle, you can choose a much easier journey to Croatia than in Tunisia, for example, or another overseas country. Therefore, I appeal to the Ministry to prepare a crisis communication programme that will be ready at the moment when the measures are released, not only in Croatia, but also in other countries for activated so that the Croatian tourist product is further advertised in the broadcasting markets. In this way we will ensure that what is saved from this tourist season is saved that, but this should be considered already, we should start preparing videos, we should find markets on which we will advertise more strongly and should be ready that when the recovery train starts we will be the first in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196776	Thank you to the esteemed representative of the coat of arms. Minister, do you need something final? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196777	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's a few questions you're still here to answer. So we have income tax. a flat tax ranging from 150 to 1,500 kuna, which determines the height of the unit of local self-government. That flat tax we delayed payment, that's one thing. The second pauser is a tourist tax or tourist fees however we want to, however we understand it, it is also a flat-rate and it also determines its height, so we decentralized it and determined a private accommodation package determines the units of local self-government and the price fixed for the hotel means by tourist when the salary comes at night. For the first six months, we have wiped out practically, and it will not be paid for 108,000 private renters and it is deleted for the first 6 months and will not be paid. Paushal, the third pausal which is the third one is the membership fee, so the third one is the membership fees that I just said they will go into a package of parafiscal duties. So we can regulate it by regulation to be one kuna, let's say, when it comes to always talking about private renters. At this point, we put membership aside because it is treated practically as a parafiscal load. So on that side we have three cobwebs, we've solved two, this third one will go parafiscal. So to be clear, that part of 6 months from the residence tax is practically around 164 million kunas that we deleted for the first 6 months and will not have to pay the owners of apartments and holiday homes. As for Mrs. Dark Taritash, she asked before why she knew language, not language, etc. It's in a situation we've put where now agencies small that count perhaps three, four employees go to the head of the agency to expose the vd and that widow accidentally doesn't know the language and to the possibility that they can function. As for works and resources that the local self-government unit does not have, it is a matter of the local self-government unit to find a model, and I suggest that this model be a factoring model that I, as well as the mayor, once upon a time when it was lauding and brimming with factoring, so which is allowed by law, so within one budget year, it can be taken to take a certain factoring, use to pay for the contractor and to work further, and as far as the permits are concerned, whether or not they can work or not, it brings the unit of local self-government based on the request of the tourist community, the tourist community must give permission to the local self-government unit whether it will be able to work from when, until the law is until the end of last year, so. If they have made a request, it is usually in the range of 15.6. to 15.9. As for the loan, HBOR's loans, the tourism ministry has prepared one, so one programme to place 596, 7 million, let's say, about 600 million kunas unambiguously, for 3 years. We will co-finance the interest of 24 million and 100 thousand kuna. It's a program, by the way, that was for competitiveness, which we were giving away by the Ministry of Tourism. What Mr. Peđa Grbin has asked for measures if there is an activity, if we can say, to be ready, etc., the Croatian Tourist Board has already prepared measures and we have just Monday or Tuesday a video link to the meeting of the HTZ Council where we will define whether it is still to be corrected. Based on 17 directors of HTZ's office outside Croatia who give us weekly reports in which direction, how, what happens in these countries, what our competition in these countries is doing, in this situation, which is practically impossible, but we get concrete measures every 7 days from them and reports and based on these reports and their proposals we are somehow preparing the first programmes if and when it starts, which will be. According to some of our findings and what we've been able to locate, so somehow the nautica will wake up a little bit better because it's thought to be somehow isolated, let's call it, especially the owners of the ships that are tied up in the marinas. They will come to their ships and go to ports, i.e. outside the big center, they won't have that much contact, they'll feel, let's call it, safer, let's say somewhere on Kornati and so on. and the first market that began to wake up specifically and think about tourism is China. So all the other markets are frozen at this point, I can say and we'll still prepare everything and the moment we evaluate both our offices outside and diplomacy and all say it's the first signal based on those reports, we'll go, of course, to try anything to run. We'll be ready for it and from the funds that have been booked, if we can say for marketing and PR services we're already part of something and we're doing it, but we're preparing the right one, which is said to be campaigning at the time that's possible. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196778	Thank you, Minister. We have one replica. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196779	Seven seconds. Mr. Secretary, thank you for your reply. So what is, something, factoring something and costing, but what is important, therefore, is that there is awareness that the units of local self-government whose income depends on the tourist season, which have some investment before the tourist season that started before all this, that they are in an even worse situation than others and that this ministry, the Ministry of Tourism, will be able to address for one special aid in relation to all other local self-government units as it will probably apply to the Ministry of Agriculture for those, those units of local self-government that have a problem in the agricultural area, etc. Here, it's my appeal for you to be, and it's a good thing that you were mayor, I remember you from that time, we were in that mandate and in the Parliament, so you have an understanding of that part and, of course, for the islanders who now and can't really travel to the island and then those workers who would normally do it in a normal situation, I can't even do it right now. So that's another problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196780	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196781	The appeal must be good, the proposal must be clear anyway. That all of these 7, especially the county depends on most of the seas on tourism leaning and that one model of the way of financing, which I say here is one of the proposals is exactly that factoring over HBOR which would then be really minimally cost that at 2, 3 years. I think that this way we would find one of the exits safe, which would accept local self-government units, and wouldn't stop preparing some of the future ones because we're practically getting ready for 2021, and that way we'll have to think for sure that our goal is to keep our workforce, liquidity, and get ready for 2021 as well as we can. And that is how we look at the Ministry of Tourism and in the Croatian tourist community which is also preparing its... Here, thank you very much, Vice President, thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196782	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We've had a full discussion with this, I'm closing the hearing at 18.28. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll continue our session Monday at 9.30 a.m. with a free speech. You've been e-mailed to the agenda and schedule. Thank you. Have a nice, pleasant evening. Session aborted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196783	The statement will now be on amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Hosting Activity. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a debate for closure. The amendment was submitted by the GLAS Representatives' Club. I would like to ask Mr Fran Matušić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism to show about the amendment to Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196784	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives, the amendment is not accepted. The amendment shall not be accepted on the grounds that it is estimated that it is necessary for the Minister of Tourism to be authorised under special circumstances to provide for a derogation from the minimum conditions for the type and/or category in relation to the arrangements and equipment of the catering facilities. The law, the derogations referred to above, will be listed in order to exempt hosts and household service providers from the obligations which constitute a burden on their business during the duration of the special circumstances. The Regulation on the derogation from minimum conditions for species and/or category will be adopted with the prior opinion of the Minister of Health and the Minister of Fire Protection, therefore the Minister of Interior for the reasons that the rules on minimum conditions and conditions for species or category are adopted in addition to their previous opinion and that a derogation from the prescribed conditions requires the prior opinion of the Minister of Health and Minister of the Interior. The derogation from minimum conditions will apply equally to those already carrying out catering activities or providing catering services and those which will eventually start operating during the period of special circumstances, but for a maximum period of 3 months from the date of termination of the special circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196785	So, Mr. Matusic's obvious statement will be made by the president of the GLAS Club, Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196786	Thank you very much. Please vote on this amendment. What exactly is this about? It's that you're very complicated and very obnoxious to say that you prescribed a provision instead of saying that the minister could amend the rulebook. What's this about? The word is that during the time of special circumstances they do not work, pay HRT subscription and some other things and you have to amend the rule that they will not, during these circumstances do not have TV and do not have to have a television registered to get categorization in order not to pay for it. So we understand the need to facilitate real tourism during exceptional circumstances through a series of measures, but the way you wrote this is that I had to talk to the secretary of state specifically to understand what it was about. You should have prescribed that simpler. The Corona virus has given us one chance, a chance to actually try and write our regulations simpler and more reasonable. You could have accepted our amendment, you could have changed this in a way that made it clear to everyone, because at the very least this provision was written foolishly. During a time when someone can't work because special circumstances are you'll change his rules and determine how to look according to special circumstances. You could have written the norm much simpler, so please vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196787	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-03-0.u196788	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Food Activity, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. Ninety-six. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the GLAS Representatives' Club, the statement we made earlier in the session, and now we will vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. Who's up for the amendment? I find that it has not received the required number of votes, so I am voting on the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Hosting Activity. Who's against it? No one. Who's restrained? No one. Who's in? I then find that the Law amending and supplementing the Household Activity Act has been unanimously passed with 130 votes in favour. We are now starting with the first united debate, these are 4 laws: - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Road Safety of Croatian Citizens, - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Personal IDs, - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Road Traffic Safety and - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the acquisition and possession of Arms of Citizens All are an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. From 899 to 902. The proposal is proposed by the Government on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Prior to the proposing representative, it will be the Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister, respected Davor Bozinovic, a colleague of Bernardic, who asked for a break. You can go there anyway, however you want.
