ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183357	Now we move to today's first item of the agenda. It is: - Final draft law amending the Law on the conduct of student affairs, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 823; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Art. 172 and 204. The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Here you go, Mr. Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183358	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'd just like to say for a moment that we're witnesses of a...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183359	But I'm sorry, I'm sorry. What are you looking for? No, but, you can't, you have to say what you're looking for, a break on behalf of the club or what? [[One big tragedy. Just give me a minute and I'll tell you right away.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183360	Well, there you go. As part of the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183361	You can look within this point? So what are you looking for consulting the club within this point?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183362	Exactly. Here, I'd like to start by saying about the meaning of the subject itself to recall the meaning of this tragedy that happened a few days ago where our pilots were killed. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Good.]] It's about the pilots of Mr. Marina Clarina and Tomislav Baturini. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Mr. Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183363	Don't, don't be mad, but this has nothing to do with this point. ... Mr. Bull. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[/Intruder Bull:...the beginning of this session, the guardians of our home.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183364	Our sky, honoring them, I think it's minimal to Croatian soldiers, defenders of our sky, and I ask that we honor them all with one minute of silence with these guards at home.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183365	So this isn't looking for a break. - A moment of silence.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183366	May their glory be eternal and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183367	Yeah, look, so, tragedy yes, but please don't do that anymore, I need to give you a heads-up. Thank you. No, no, I gave a warning, he hurt the Rules of Procedure, I know, I gave a warning. Thank you. Would the proposaler's representative like to give an additional explanation of the final draft law amending the Law on the conduct of student affairs? We have the secretary of state, Mr. Branka Ramljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183368	Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. You have before you a proposal for a law amending the Law on the conduct of student affairs. In fact, the Law on the conduct of student activities defines the concept of a student or person who has the right to carry out student work through a student contract. From the definition of student concept within the meaning of the Law on the conduct of student activities, there is no identification of a student who is a student from some third countries, i.e. a student from a European space of higher education, a European economic space and a Swiss Confederation or a student under international protection in the Republic, and because of the order of words, no student is recognized at the exchange which attends some of the studies at the higher school in the Republic of Croatia. Since projects of internationalisation of higher education are under way, and that regulation largely prevents the implementation of project indicators financed by EU funds and poses a high risk for the successful completion of the projects and the real risk of possible costs being unacceptable, a proposal for amendments to this law is put in place. In fact, students coming from third countries are not motivated to study in the Republic of Croatia, as they cannot support themselves financially because they are disabled in their work through such a contract to perform student jobs. Continuing the strongly reasoned performances of the academic community, but also additionally, Croatian Employers' Associations, quick amendments to the Law on the conduct of student affairs in only one part are proposed in the section relating to the definition of students. The Croatian Employers' Association emphasises that in the Republic of Croatia a significant demand for labour, and especially for higher education, there is no interface between education, higher education and labour markets and this is also an opportunity not only for students to have the possibility of working in the right real environment, but also for them to additionally achieve some kind of compensation that would allow them to better standards as students. The proposed amendment to the definition of students will allow all students, regardless of the citizenship they are studying at higher universities in the Republic of Croatia, to carry out student work through the Students' Contract. In addition, we repeat in the definition of students we will also explain who other persons considered to be students in terms of the law. Therefore, students at a high-school exchange in the Republic of Croatia where, of course, the exchange must be regulated by an agreement between higher universities, then citizens of the Republic of Croatia, EU citizens, citizens of the economic, European economic space and the Swiss Confederation, which have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, and study at a higher university outside the Republic of Croatia, and would finally only point out that additional funding from the budget will not be required for the implementation of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183369	Thank you, we have 11 replicas for your presentation, first colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183370	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, when we are already talking about this law, we should also look at some issues that are particularly highlighted through the National Report on Social and Economic Conditions of Student Life in the Republic of Croatia Eurostudent 5, namely this report is considering and how student work affects the quality of study and the completion of studies, so we can see that in 2010, 67% of students, 2014. 61% or more specifically, it's in those 5 years. 6% of students working, that's 39%. I wonder if you had any more recent data in the meantime, and to what extent is the strategy of education, science and technology being implemented, which in order to improve the economic position of students, encourages that indirect support is directed to direct ones, or to what extent is the availability of scholarships, loans and to what extent are students working more or less compared to the previous period?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183371	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183372	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I am interested in this matter, you are probably also familiar with the request of the Croatian Student Assembly and the interpretation of the Ministry itself relating to this law, which is precisely this part, which refers to students who have frozen their studies, who are in standstill status, they give good examples that certain students who are in standstill should be allowed student work even though their rights and obligations as students are frozen, but they provide examples of freezing years are completely 12 months, but normally these health reasons are due to freezing themselves and do not last all 12 months so that students should be allowed to continue working through student services, so will I be interested in changing the interpretation of the ministry itself regarding these students? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183373	Thank you. The next replica of a colleague of Liposcack, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183374	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, and here are these amendments to the law, we extend the definition of students to all students regardless of their nationality, meaning to those students from non-EU countries, who are under international protection or students on the exchange, and there are only a few hundred students if I am not mistaken and I don't think there will be significant changes in the labour market with these changes. However, the biggest change that we have actually made with the amendments to the law or the law a little over a year ago was that we have also made it possible for extraordinary students to work through student contracts and then we have been dealing with a number since I've been wronged about 40,000 extraordinary students and today I'm curious if we have feedback on how many extraordinary students have actually achieved this right and what are our feedback from the labour market itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183375	Thank you. Next replica of my colleague Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183376	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, here you are proposing an extremely short bill by an extremely urgent procedure without too much information which, unfortunately, we cannot find in this proposal, I am interested... These definitions of students, practically to all students who attend a study in the Republic and, of course, those who have a residence in us, and study somewhere else, which number of students are actually involved, we do not see anywhere in this proposal whether it is several students, several thousand or which is actually the number of students that we speak of in this law and what number is actually referred to from individual EU and other countries and whether there is a principle of reciprocity in the sense that if our foreign students can work here as students, can our students in another country, third country, not only EU members [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] but also in these other countries [[Intruder: Thank you]] also have a right [[Intruder: Thank you]] working as students in these countries. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183377	Downhill, thank you. Next is colleague Curai, after him colleague Sagar, colleague Curaj go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183378	Thank you, dear Vice President. I would just like to point out this way that, of course, I personally and the HNS Club welcomes this amendment and continues to extend what we have brought to Croatian history for the first time, which is exactly the Law on the conduct of student affairs, which in one systematic and comprehensive way we have dealt with all issues related to student work, specifically where we have made it possible to work through student work and extraordinary students, increase the minimum rate and, of course, further extend the rights of students, and this has not been reached, on the legal basis, so that when you first adopt a law to improve and improve it and of course welcome this measure in accordance with the Croatian Association of Employers and Economic Chambers to open that part of the work through student and all students and on the exchange and on a wider economic... we have cooperation, so I think this is a good way and that Croatian citizens certainly and especially students have... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183379	Thank you. The next colleague, Žagar, followed by his colleague Babic, is here with a colleague, Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183380	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, it would be good for you to answer questions regarding the contribution of the debate, and I would like to join my colleague. We have the latest information, the latest data from 2017 to 2018. The National Bureau of Statistics says there were 2340 foreign students in the Republic of Croatia. When we look at the ratio of how many students of our students are out there, that ratio is not satisfactory. What I want to ask you, and we should answer the same question for a good contribution, can students, family pensioners, work under this law or other laws, the Pension Insurance Act? Do you know that information because it's going to be necessary to discuss it? It is interesting to see that according to the State Statistics Institute, many students in the Republic of Croatia have from BiH, France, Italy, Germany, Poland, Slovenia and Spain. These are the countries whose students have the most in the Republic of Croatia. If you could please respond to the current state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183381	Thank you. Here's your next colleague, Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183382	... Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Secretary of State. [[Specially enabled.]] I welcome the promptivity and expeditionivity in the adoption of this law for the sake of the labour market itself, as well as projects for internationalising higher education. In one piece, you said that it would involve students who were refugees, asylum seekers, or under subsidiary protection. Since they are bound by the Foreign Law and are using certain social benefits in the Republic of Croatia, would you tell me next if they are on the labour market and have a labour contract, in fact these benefits domiciled or would they still have the right to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183383	Thank you. Next is counterpart Mikulic, followed by counterpart Stričak, please welcome colleague Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183384	I thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I absolutely support these amendments contained in this bill, I believe that they will indeed contribute to the internationalisation of our higher education, correct one injustice that we have had towards students who come to the Republic of Croatia to study or leave the Republic of Croatia but what I am interested in, one technical question given that this bill allows students and third countries to work through a student service, in which way do you think to resolve the issue of health insurance since it is one of the conditions of student work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183385	Thank you. Next is my colleague, Strick, after him, my colleague Shucker, here's my colleague, Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183386	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. I welcome these changes and additions today, and I think they are welcome because of our economic situation and so that students can acquire certain skills and experiences during their studies themselves. A good example is, for example, the Varazdin Faculty of Organization and Informatics, which has 370 companies and institutions contract to carry out professional practice, 1/3 students remain working in that institution where they have performed professional practice and within 3 to 6 months. Everybody gets a job. It means college that after six months. When you get his degree, there's no literally unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183387	Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183388	Thank you very much. Well, it's a commendable move that practically all students have the same rights and one who hasn't felt the first one through a student service, which basically doesn't know how a man feels after that. But what I'd like to ask you is a question, ma'am. The secretary of state is, are some to say, bound laws that regulate the question of third-country students, should they be changed, why, if necessary, why isn't that done in the package? Because unfortunately, this debate will go back to some political waters and not be in the waters of life. And that is unfortunately the big problem of this House. My colleague Mikulić mentioned health insurance, you have tax laws, you have resident status, non-residents etc., I think it should have been promoted together in one package and given here because I say, unfortunately, you see for yourself what direction the debate will take.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183389	Thank you. And the last replica, colleague Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183390	Thank you very much. Here I agree entirely with my colleague Shuker on this issue because it is often the impression that partial things are being solved and that I would say they are illogically complicated. Here's when we look at students and those who work, we can't get the impression that a part of the students are forced to work because they don't think in a way that they can be hired but are working on a student contract, especially in the last year, right before graduations per year in companies in this way or extraordinary students who should generally work and study, so they are called extraordinary students because they work and then study in the evening, but then the employers are again using this opportunity to work on a student contract, and unfortunately, at first glance, people don't stay without money, but when they think about how much less they pay in their pension savings or all the other givings, they basically remain without money, and that state should pay a little more attention to it and find a more comprehensive and more concrete solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183391	Thank you, thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? If not, I am opening the debate, first debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club of counterpart Ante Bačić, please welcome colleague Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183392	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here, as we have heard in the introduction from the State Secretary himself in this explanation, we are facing changes, short changes in two articles of the Law on the conduct of student affairs, we know that two years ago in the Croatian Parliament we had bigger, i.e. The new Law on the conduct of student affairs where we have allowed extra students the right to student service and to student work which I think we have done a very large thing and related to the market itself but also to the very system of higher education. As far as this law is concerned, it normally influences and regulates all rights and obligations of the intermediary and of the contracting authority during the performance of the student affairs themselves and this Article. The second to change is about defining the very concept of student. In the very replicas in the introduction we have quite opened the topic of how much to extend this student-related item itself, including perhaps some other groupings in particular what I highlighted at the beginning also about students who have frozen their studies and who are in the status of pensions. As far as this very definition is concerned, it has so far not recognised students from some third countries or students from the European Higher Education Area, the Swiss Confederation, nor students under international protection who are in the Republic of Croatia, who attend a certain high school in our country. The aim of this law is also internationalisation of higher education, so it is important that we hear the answer from the secretary of state because here we really have to agree with colleagues in the very reasoning of the law was not an item or any statistics on how many students have just used the law from this law, especially those of the extraordinary ones, but how many students are also on the exchange and how many foreign students in the Republic who will thus enable us to enter not only the labour market system but also the system of the student centre itself. the student service itself. Normally, we support strengthening the internationalisation of higher education itself and that all these students are involved in all rights and obligations when they are already studying at certain higher universities in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the definition of student concepts, it is also explained to which persons this law applies, namely students to exchange at a higher university in the Republic of Croatia, where the exchange must be a regulated agreement between two higher schools, as well as November citizens of the Republic of Croatia, EU citizens, European Economic Area, the Swiss Confederation that have a residence in the Republic of Croatia and are studying at a certain higher university outside the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, as regards these amendments, the law is in line with the rules of the Republic of Croatia which allow third-country nationals to work, the Foreign Law itself relating to persons under international and temporary protection, the Law on Temporary Protection, so that the harmonisation of these amendments is also in line with that law. It is important to stress that regular students do not build a working relationship with this law through a work contract, here and at the very beginning we heard something about asylum seekers themselves, refugees who have certain protection in the Republic of Croatia, but have the right to normally enter a certain high school and thus work through a student service contract and thus avoid only signing a labour contract. As far as the urgency of this process is concerned, we accept certain justified reasons that the ministry itself has put forward to speed up the adoption of these amendments and for the internationalisation of higher education itself, to offer students who study who are foreigners and study in the Republic of Croatia to make full use of their right. As I said at first, I think we did a great thing by equating regular and extraordinary students during their rights and obligations at our higher universities, especially regarding the rights regulated by this law, which is the right to student work itself. I'm saying, it wouldn't be a bad idea to see the statistics on how much such students used that right and how much that affects the labour market itself. If we have seen a little bit of reason through this public debate that was related to this law, we see that certain trade unions have again been engaged in a public debate, of course a little more negative path of this law than it was two years ago in the fear that here we will see from certain colleagues through the replica that they have opened certain fears that this law will affect the labour market in that negative sense, that employers will in this way avoid the conclusion of classical labour contracts, thereby avoiding certain pension and health benefits, as we defended two years ago, I think that this fear will certainly not come. We saw the statistics then on how many students worked and how many students were in the system of student service and student work, how long they stayed with certain employers. I don't think about 90% of the students worked for more than three months in the same employer. Most students have exclusively used their right to study work for only one month a year, so all the concerns that unions expose I don't think they are standing here and we shouldn't show muscles on our students and on the system of higher education is there going to be no need and there won't be any major threats, especially now that we see both statistics and state, but also statistics on the Chamber of Commerce where we lack workers in certain sectors, especially regarding higher education. And in this way I believe that on the easiest possible path we will introduce certain people into the labour market and reduce that difference between the necessary workers that are needed from year to year in the Republic of Croatia is the demand for quality labour in certain sectors to grow. At the very beginning of the presentation, I mentioned just about the students who are at rest, who have frozen their studies, I will continue to do so in an individual debate. I believe that the ministry will also find a solution for this, perhaps not for all students who are in standstill status, but for justifiable reasons there are certain categories of students who should be allowed to use their right to student work in high school with that status. All in all, and for the internationalization of higher education itself, but normally to respect our fellow foreign students, to small and modernize the system, but also to make it much more and more adequate and more attractive to our colleagues, not only from the neighbourhood but from around the world, and I think that we have very strong and high-quality universities, universities, strong quality study programmes that are competitive, which may be cheaper for opportunities from other countries, so that many foreigners are very acceptable to come to Croatia, to take advantage of their right to study, to acquire quality education, but to be able to work and to achieve this way and to make certain income. Normally and as a benefit of our studies, but as a benefit to us to extend certain experiences there. In all, the HDZ Club will accept these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183393	Thank you, too. The next debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge is the debate of colleagues of the Podlenjaks. Here's your colleague, Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183394	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with an associate. My colleagues and fellow MPs. We have a very short Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the conduct of student affairs, which practically has only one article and refers to changing the definition of students. But despite the fact that this is such a very short legislative proposal, I would still like to say that for formal reasons, it is not good, even when it comes to such a short law, to the public consultation for 7 days. Unfortunately, there is a practice of individual ministries and most ministries that this public consultation is shortened from those prescribed month in general to 15 days. But these seven days indeed, it seems to me to be the shortest time you could have chosen to conduct this counseling. Second, you provide that this law enters into force on the first day of its publication in the National Journal, so the shortest time for the law to enter into force again, and for this should be given a special explanation in case it is not 8 days from the day of its publication. We don't see any of that in this final proposal. Why is this law the most urgent of all the laws we've practically had before us, and it's not a mere formality. So, we must insist on these things because it is probably important for you to implement this through a few days in January, practically since you put this short law on public consultation, we are now in January, still quite possibly, that I don't know, on Friday it comes to a vote and that in fact in less than a month we pass and public consultation and discussion in the Croatian Parliament and voting and I assume and entry into force of this law. From everything you've said, I don't understand why this is the most urgent law in the procedure that we have in the Croatian Parliament. That change in student definition. In principle, we certainly support the equal rights of all students studying in the Republic of Croatia, having the right to work here as students, so that it can enable them, quite safely, to study easier, to have a certain financial support that they can study here. It is clear that this is also a sign of our country's openness to foreign citizens. Likewise, it is also a contribution to internationalisation of education. All that stands, it's all impenetrable and that's what he says and in support of the adoption of this law. However, questions remain as to why it practically went all the way in 2019 when this law was in force, that there was no need to change that law but now in a super-emergency procedure in January 2020. We lack all comparative data on the number of students in question, which can be found, let's say, on the labour market. We see here in the union's remarks that they are rather harsh against the adoption of this law, even think they should be proposed by another ministry, not to see an impact on the labour market. It is difficult to enter all these objections and remarks, given that counselling was extremely short, only for 7 days. They say they are not involved as social partners in the debate over the bill. You should mention that, too. But indeed, I expected you to respond to these short replicas of ours, so first, say how many students are actually in the Republic of Croatia from other countries that are studying here. I know, for example, that our students within the Erasmus programme and there are not too many in European countries, I think that we are even seriously lagging behind other EU countries, but we are likely to reduce this backlog compared to others and that we will have a significantly higher number of students at foreign higher universities. But it would be interesting to know about this law and the debate, how many of these students are in the Republic of Croatia at our universities that will exercise the right to do certain jobs. Is that a smaller number, a few hundred, a thousand, two thousand, three thousand, I believe your ministry has the most accurate figures in that sense, and I think it should be presented in this brief bill. I asked you in the replica whether there is a principle of reciprocity in the sense that our students anywhere else, in a foreign country where they study, can also perform, work as students and that this gives us special rights as we want to give these laws to all third-country students, regardless of whether they are from some EU country, European economic space, can therefore be anywhere from the world. And I know there's probably not too many students coming from either Asian or African or Latin American states or maybe from the United States, I guess the largest number from Europe. But I am interested in whether our students who study somewhere not only in EU countries but also outside the EU have equal rights which we, too, are giving this bill to these students. So, I don't know these data, I don't have them either, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't have them in this bill, but for example, I wonder if our students who study in Switzerland or Norway in countries of this European economic space that aren't in the EU, or, for example, in a few days when the United Kingdom is no longer a member of the EU, whether our students, equally, who are studying there, can exercise the same rights that we give to third-country students. I think that the principle of reciprocity is important even though we are setting a perfectly good example of this, it is a good practice to enable students of other countries to work here and thus facilitate their studies. That's absolutely good. But you have not said anything in this short proposal whether our students are based on some laws in other countries or when it comes to the EU and some regulations or directives or certain programmes have equal rights not to talk about non-EU countries. Since this is the final draft of the law that we will not have another reading that we should actually have received all this information before the debate itself, I did not even see a report with the working body that had to discuss this law. From what I've seen, it was just the Committee of Legislatives, we didn't actually get any information from you. In principle, we support this law for the reasons I've said in the first place. It is an example of good practice, our country's openness to foreign citizens that will certainly make it easier for them to study and thus attract them to study in the Republic of Croatia, but I would like to say that the same rights and in all countries have our students who are at higher and other universities in other countries and who, if they are in countries that have a more expensive standard of living, are probably harder to study than students from most EU countries may study here in the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183395	Thank you, too. The next debate on behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club is the debate of counterpart Anka Mrak Taritas. Here you go, fellow Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183396	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable State Secretary with an associate is therefore in front of us in the emergency procedure of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the conduct of student affairs. So, what we must always know is that no law is carved into stone, the laws should be changed and the moment you know that they have come, that the urgency of the procedure I even understand sometimes the justification to go into emergency procedure in the first and second reading because you simply don't have time. What would be good is that, with this bill, we got a little bit more numbers, it would have been good if you had spent a public debate for 15 days. This is how you actually did everything in some kind of shortcut version, but good. We will support this amendment and the addition of the law, we support opening the possibility for other students, we think that all students studying at Croatian universities should be given this opportunity. We must bear in mind that indeed this century will be, the century I am absolutely convinced of various migrations. Part of the migration that will happen in this century will simply be due to climate change because there will be parts of the world where people will not live. And we here in all other options and variants need to adapt so that we need to adapt to this variant as well. I studied in the last century, and when I was in college we did the same thing as students through a student service, you did the moment you could, you did that, or you did that, to make it easier on your parents or to make things happen that weren't possible before. I studied technical school, I think it's about us so you'd dare say 2/3 of the college at a certain time when, especially when some others went, some serious projects worked as a student service. I was, for example, working on as a student service when preparing this hospital in Blato that today causes a series of riots when it's supposed to be drawn, I mean, they weren't computers, we were drawing manually, but even today, when you draw a different computer need to always work. And you're always fine when you're a student doing jobs that are close to your future calling. Students do different jobs, they always do, they work now and they will. I am in the debate when it comes to this law of course you always take an example that is closest to you, and I have always taken the example of my son who, when he gets a pickpocket or everything else, then treats it so casually. And when he worked as a student service or when he worked as a cold service for every kuna, he knew exactly what he had spent it for. Not to say that what on 11 kuna knew exactly why he spent it. I think that working through a student service and working when you study good for a few reasons, is good if you do really work that is close to your future interest, it is good to know that you know what it means to work and how much you work for a certain fee you get and we simply live in the country a year ago I was talking from this pay phone about having 50,000 jobs, now we can talk about the 100,000 jobs needed in Croatia, we talk and very often talk about tourism and what tourist employees cry out, they cry out for people who will work in tourism because without people who will work they won't even be able to develop this branch even though we can talk about it from another economic aspect about how and what they need to develop. So to conclude this part of the debate, we're going to support this amendment and the addition of the law, we don't even have a problem and I think there are really some laws that need to go into emergency procedure, it's now called emergency procedure because there's something urgent to solve. What would be good and that would be advice for the future, to get a series of indicators because then it's easier for us to talk about it, and in that sense I really don't see the big concern that unions show about us, there are really unfulfilled jobs, and I'm afraid there will be more of them. Now I'm going to go over some information that I've collected in preparation for this debate. So according to EUROSTAT, by 2018, this was the last data I had in another EU member country left Croatia 348 000 working citizens, some of which were over 60,000 highly educated, and that is one of the data that we really need to take into account and in the context of that in 2019 of the 42,000 places that were in our colleges, 11 000 remained unfulfilled. One of the reasons is really these demographic trends and we have to take care of it, one of the reasons is that an increase in the number of universities is not a university but a number of colleges, so there's no fear of any government that isn't when it comes to higher education, encouraged a certain number of college openings for a simple reason, aware of that at one point that we have a relatively small number of higher educations but then it turned into something that didn't have to be converted. Let's say for the sake of comparison, 2015 the number of graduates was 36 786 and the number of enrolment posts at the university was 35 189. 2019 number of graduates 30 146 and number of entries 40 590. The question is, when you're doing a plan, when you're doing a program, whether it's about paper or whether it's about reality. And this points to the fact, so according to the number of country registrations, funding individual colleges, but if we know that we have students, so, in the academic year 2018/2019, 39 626 students graduated from high school. So even if everyone had decided to go to college, there'd still be room. And the number of graduates, so those who decided to take the prom is 30 146 and now it's just a question of whether they're still paying for these 40,000 who are or are being paid by the actual ones. And now a little bit, so that's something that's the key thing, that's something to think about, we have to be in real conditions and real circumstances, and I'm going to say that there are deficiting interests, and I'm going to say that part of the problem can be solved by a contract that is signed with individual universities, out of 8 only 2 signed contracts, so it's contracts that when you start studying, they're signed in Rijeka and Pula, programming contracts, it's about software contracts, of 8 universities, just 2. When we discussed the shipbuilding or closing of the shipyard, I accidentally told my IDS colleague a few times, it was not intentional to tie up with them, I said several times that if we decided there was no shipbuilding, then we should know that we would have to decide and close down certain colleges or higher educations where our children are schooling, that we would not put our children in a position to school for some, to train them from the budget for some other countries. And now a little bit about our study abroad and foreign students in Croatia. So, according to UNESCO's data, in 2018 9 675 of our children studied abroad at certain universities because they apparently concluded that studying there would give them some different education, give them some kind of wind in the back, give them the opportunity to be better positioned on the EU's or world's labour market and no matter what, it's been around here lately, so somewhere around 10,000 of our children are studying abroad, these are the latest data. But now let's see the attractiveness of Croatian universities for foreign citizens. So in 2017, 693, the letter and number of foreign students studied at our university. Maybe that number's bigger now, maybe that number's increasing, I'm just saying numbers on the data you can get, and that's why it would be good to be here. But there is something that shows that our universities are not attractive on the global educational market. Our universities are simply not attractive to foreign students. The number of foreign students in the Czech Republic is 4.18 per 1,000 inhabitants and 0.17 in Croatia. So that's your relationship, the number of foreign students counts on 1,000 residents. For example, in Serbia there are 1.61 foreign students per 1,000 inhabitants, as I have already said 0.17 and that is something we should take care of. It would be incomparably better if our universities, or our colleges, were, of course, attractive to foreign students. That foreign students come to study with us. So, the example works, say, Germany. 122 195 students studying outside, and in Germany is 258 873. Of course, we can't compare ourselves with that and we don't really need to work on such comparisons, but let's say, when it comes to Bulgaria, in Bulgaria 25,094 studies outside, and the number of foreign ones is 12 thousand. But what might be our indicator is Latvia. In Latvia, 5 297 of their students study outside, and in Latvia, therefore, foreign students study 6 130, so I speak all the data that were at 2017 level, perhaps now the data is something different. In 2017, Croatia 693. I, i.e. us at the GLAS Club, but, as I said before, we will uphold this law. We support all the changes that go a certain step forward, but from these, we read this law in a way and this data that I have presented that what should be our ministry's effort, which should be the effort of all those who are in higher education that we should increase the attractiveness of our universities for foreign students. Croatia is also given its place among other EU members in this regard. She didn't get it now, but what is really expected, we don't see anything and we think it's good that all the students who are enrolled in and what is a university and all the other colleges, high schools and all the institutions that are in charge of higher education that for, all these students have the opportunity to work through a student service, or the way in which it is defined for the simple reason that all those who study with us should be equal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183397	Thank you, too. The next debate on behalf of the HNS Representatives Club is the debate of counterpart Stjepan Curaj. Here you go, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183398	Thank you, dear Vice President. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I'm glad to hear that the more or less we all agree, now there have been some questions about the number, we have now heard that even numbers can be reached, that the numbers are as they are, so nothing is disputed about this legal amendment which is usually, we can practically bring it down to one nomotechnical question where it is essentially the least possible change, and that is, in fact, the fact that it means a lot more. In fact, we open these changes after opening the 2018 labour market to extraordinary students, so we expanded what was not possible for years, that through the student service we can also work with extraordinary students. Until then it was only a privilege of regular,... with payment, etc., which had certain student benefits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We then made this one of the most significant changes. Of course, and set up a minimum wage alignment for student captains, so as the minimum wage increases, there the minimum rate for student work grows. I think that's why we've been protecting even more students' rights and what might not have been done then, now we're dealing with these reasons that are listed, so that makes it possible for third-country nationals to work, we're actually expanding that potential by 600, 700, 800, 900 students, now as they come to work, hoping that it will also be a small wheel, not only to help the labour market but also to attract foreign students to our universities. Why does it matter? So we promote both our country and our culture, our education system, these people stay, these people go, these people come back, these people better establish economic later relations, scientific relations, any cooperation, so that's something that has broad potential why it's good to have foreign students at their universities. I think it's absolutely clear that he's also saying something about the country's renaissance, it's Mrs. Dark-Taritash said something and I agree that practically less than 2 people per 1,000 students are currently foreign to us. The question and what other structures of these foreign students from which countries, but regardless of which countries they are, I think that is good and that in this almost symbolic change we are letting one letter actually allow students to exchange and students who are actually citizens of the EU, the European Economic Area, the Swiss Confederation, who have that residence because they are studying at a higher university outside, means they are actually expanding to the citizens of the European Economic Area. And I think it's on the trail of everything that's going on, as far as high education is concerned, where we're going with the changes, the Croatian Qualifications Framework, I think there's programme decisions on programme funding for higher education and science, and in fact that through different EU funds, social funds, EU funds for regional development billions are now investing exactly in higher education, this is a small wheel, I would just point out, 430 million for and socio-economic scholarships, STEM studies, so I think that improving higher education, internationalisation, professional practice, etc., I think that an absolute total of 2.5 billion kuna from EU funds in higher education, I think it's absolutely important and that this is the way that we should further develop to be competitive and competitive, and that our university is growing, that they can exploit, of course, that they have the conditions, and they have to be included in the whole story. What I would only possibly be having problems with two things, I would refer to that something said about the principle of reciprocity, I think it's absolutely unacceptable here, whether our students can or can't work somewhere in... The countries absolutely do not need to be as a criterion, nor does it matter, it is nice to know about our students, but it is more important for us to come as many foreign students as possible from here, to study with us for the reasons that I have stated because they are both socioeconomic and cultural and high scientific, so there is much more of a connection, later when that man remains to work here if he is a deficiting interest, whether he goes with those knowledge, so he comes back with the family, if nothing else here as a tourist or what is certain and what is most likely to continue economic cooperation in the fields of science and joint projects because I think that people who have studied here keep contact, that is that socioeconomic aspect, they work, cooperate between tomorrow colleges, certain companies, on certain projects that certainly contribute to development and our countries, and in fact, it is very important to adopt themselves in that part of what it means. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The last thing I'd like to mention, since we've expanded the pool of people who work through student service, I think it's time to consider a little bit about, nobody mentioned it today, about fees. Currently, 12% of the commission is paid for student work, 0.5% of the fee which is not clear to me, 5% of the pension contributions and 0.5% for health care, which is also not very clear to me why, is every student, a student has and is secured, secured health care, so this is just an additional burden perhaps to employers. Given that we have increased the number of students, and hoping that the number of performers in the student centres and services is practically the same, I say, hoping that it hasn't exactly proved to be a practice with us, we think there's space, I think at least we're talking about these fees, at least this health care thing and this 0.5% fee is definitely being abolished, and that these 12 down to 10 so we can still go to the hands and employers who would then make this student work even more interesting through student work, or if it might not interfere with some market idea, match, then transfer it to some retirement and that old story would be updated around, if we're paying 5% of pensions, about the recognition of work through student service. So we're paying, and that doesn't count, someone's been working for 5-6 years. through student service, nor is it admitted to his work experience, it's worth his work experience, it's two different concepts, meaning working experience is worth it, it's put in his resume as recommended, available on request, etc., but when someone wants to prove to you to some public body that you have experience, then you can only do it with an e-book extract or a work experience, and this is not added up. Why? Because it is not included in the job experience with which the pension is calculated and if you are paid 5% on pensions in pension and disability insurance. Now I think it's some little nonsens that's been going on for a long time, and the idea is at least my idea to redistribute and think about these fees, once again I'm going to repeat 12% for the commission, 0.5% for the fee, I have no idea to whom it's now being allocated, 5% for pension and 0.5% for health care. I think that there is this space, given that we have increased the number of people who perform, that there is certainly more inflows and that we need to think about what to do with these money and how and how to do it even more demanding, and in particular that working through a student service is recognised in the course of work and such as working through the Work Treaty, we have changed this, today he, if I am not wrong, is taking 1:2, 12 months The Treaty of Work means 6 months of work, there is a colleague of Hrelja, I think that he will confirm it, and then this same can be a system that one year of work through a student service is treated as a 6 months of work experience if certain conditions are met and as regards the minimum or captains or contracts and payments, etc. which are recorded and have over 5% of what we're paying for a pension, so you can't say you did, and if you didn't, but you've got as much money as you have, if it's 5%, and 20% of every other salary, that would mean the ratio of 1:4, so let's say it's 1/4 for 12 months that you've been recognised for 3 months by this student's internship if we at least look at that contribution that's being paid, and here those 5%, so here are just some additions, of course the HNS Club will support this with all the reasons that both the State Secretary and, in fact, which I'll see that they're not at all controversial and I'm really saying, this is just one of the little wheels that have been done in the past 2-3 years. In practice, as regards investments in higher education and billions that go to both science and science and higher education, I think that just by providing opportunities for the employment of 255 young scientists etc. I think that hundreds and hundreds of millions for various projects and the Centre for Advanced Laser Engineering etc., I think that this trail is done very well and congratulations to the ministry headed by the Minister and Secretary of State Mr. Anticic, who runs this part and I think and of course, ma'am. Ramljak who, who have really committed themselves to seeing the difference and let's move on at that pace and, of course, the HNS Club once again supports this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183399	Thank you, let's welcome the students and students of the White Manastir High School and their teachers who have joined us in the assembly, good afternoon and welcome! ... We continue to debate on behalf of the clubs, following on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, Independent Representatives, SNAGA and New Politics is a colleague of Tomislav Žagar who will share the debate with counterpart Silvan Hrjej, please welcome colleague Žagar. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183400	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. In front of us The proposal to amend the Law on Student Affairs, which was created on the basis of what is happening on the labour market itself, is related to the work of students. In fact, we could say this way that the theory can identify the danger, but we can avoid it with experience. So it was seen that there is a group of students in the Republic of Croatia who do not have citizenship and who cannot work on the basis of the current legal framework, and many of them should have the funds especially for those who pay for their tuition, so they must provide funds to be able to study in the Republic of Croatia. And we can look at this aspect of the law in terms of students according to their ability to study in the Republic and of course welcome this legislative proposal. But there is a but. We do not have in this legislative proposal a number of students, foreign students in the Republic of Croatia. According to the data we have from the academic year 2017-2018, the number is listed in the amount of 2340, in fact 2341 for an unknown citizenship, according to countries from which students from abroad came the predecessors of the Republic of Germany with 292 students, e.g. Poland 189, BiH 149, France 112, Italy 111, Slovenia 171, Spain 135, these are all countries that have over 100 students in the Republic of Croatia who are studying. There are also Turkey with 68, Ukraine 47, etc. When we look at these numbers in an absolute amount, then we can say that these are not large numbers of foreign students studying in the Republic of Croatia. Also, if we observe trends in study in the Republic of Croatia, so the number of foreign students in the Republic of Croatia compared to the number of students in the Republic of Croatia studying at foreign universities, then we see that the trend is very unfavourable. Of course, since 2013, when the Republic of Croatia has become a member of the EU, some things have moved, I hope the Secretary of State will tell us what we are actually going in the right direction, and so is the information presented by Mrs. Mrak Taritash, indeed, that in the Republic of Croatia if we observe the ratio between foreign students and students studying outside for the Republic of Croatia is 0.07. This number is extremely small if we compare it to some countries, Germany is 2.11, but let's look at Slovenia 0.97 so they have a ratio of approximately 1:1 foreign students and students studying outside. It's extremely important for the Republic of Croatia. In the Republic of Croatia, the problem of higher education is that after education, they leave the country. The less we have a higher education that after completing education because I can't get a job here, I can't make enough money, which makes that number smaller, and the bigger the number of students who go outside, the better the economic picture will be for the Republic of Croatia. Let's go back to the content of the law itself. With each legislative proposal, it is important to have a principle of justice, from the point of view of students, this is a fair law that will allow them to earn money. However, if we look at the labour market in a wider picture, then we ask the right question is whether we really saw what is going to cause in the labour market such a bill and despite such small numbers of foreign students and everything that unions warn about, whether there will be a disturbance in the labour market price and whether this law will enable employers not immediately to rule out the possibility and that we think that all employers have a tendency to use the term "move" or to benefit from the work of students, but some employers to gain cheaper labour in this way and not to actually hire people who really need work. I asked the secretary of state in the replica, I would ask that if he could answer me, I didn't find that information, could the students of the family pension work through a student service so do student jobs? If that's the case, it's extremely good and it needs to be welcomed. But then we ask the following question, and here will be after me the speech of my colleague, the question is why in the Republic of Croatia, you are the State Secretary of Government, so your minister is a member of the Government and it would be good to talk to those two Mr. Aladrovic and Mr. Maric, which is why family pensioners are forbidden to work in the Republic on the basis of the Pension Insurance Act for four hours as it is allowed to other pensioners? We already see that in this part of the law it is not fair to the end because one of the family pensioners can work, and the other I can't or can't say it in the clearest, most vividly, maybe we should recommend family pensioners to enroll in college if they can't work with four hours, to enroll one of the colleges and work through a student service. Well, maybe that would be one of the solutions. Now I leave my word to my colleague Khreli. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183401	A colleague of the Hill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183402	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I might be a lot rougher than this rhetoric that's in the assembly today. I also believe that when we passed this law, and also the day that this is an intruder on the labour market, that this is an intruder law because if it wasn't, I would have, 17 years ago, here, suggested, the Retirement Law, so the Law on the jobs of treated alcoholics, so I don't know what other structure of our society. These people, it doesn't make any sense, or it produces effects for example. a large trading house in its home abroad sends an annual report with a red-lining that it is the most profitable work, the work of students in Croatia. Is that how we're supposed to do it? Is that how we gentlemen are supposed to do it? Is there any way that we want to keep our young people here, that their 20s are starting to run, we can just do it, but we don't want to stop, we don't want to observe the laws and round them up. So the contributions. And taxes come to Mr. Maric in the same bag. Well, it's a good thing we pay all kinds of taxes, free the student work of any tax pay, any contribution other than a pension contribution, and that's how the state pays health insurance. Why are you limiting the salary of a pensioner? And you're limiting it because their parents, after a certain amount of money they make, lose tax relief. So I can't have students working and making as much money as they want. I can't make what they want. Why, why are we doing this? What are we afraid of? So you can eventually as a legislator say students can work during summer holidays full-time, during winter holidays full-time, and the rest should work part-time, 20 hours a week and work Saturdays and Sundays. So to limit the number of hours of work so they don't study for 15 years, but to finish their studies in time because it's also intended to complete their studies, right? So I don't understand why you don't understand the whole, why you go fragment by fragment to solve and then crash the simple labour market. Of course, 5% of individual capitalised savings are paid but that's not recognition, II. A post, but it's not a recognition of a job internship and an insurance internship. Retirement insurance is the 1st pension post. So cancel everything else, put 2% of student fees on the service and let people pay 15+5% of pensions and we solved the problem, from the 20 they run a job. So what am I supposed to say? I should say it here and we have people who are experts in writing laws, we have people who should be vice presidents and coordinate the activities of individual ministries. I don't consider myself the smartest but I have to experience the system to function as a whole. I have to experience it like that. We are concerned today by the other side here, former Minister Pavic, today's Minister Aladrovic, tells us that we have little work to do when we retire. How long will we have a retirement job if the first job is in 35? Why don't you run a job since you were 20? And these people would be competitive, too. This way, directly through this law, we would favor multinational companies, trade chains, if they had an extremely good profit, people get nominally little more, so students get nominally higher and in the future when they retire, they ask you whether your age is young and what you did during your youth. And we should build systems that work and give people a decent pension at the end of their career. This kind of decent retirement, my dear colleagues and colleagues, is gone. Everything will be minimal, minimum pensions,... without years of employment and without years of employment, it mostly ends up in low pensions and we produce new poverty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not today, we're producing it already now and in 30 years because the pensions of those people who continue to live, who are committed to this country, who want to live and work in this country, will be in 30 years' time, terrible little and it will be the new poor. Without a view of the higher education that they will acquire as students, regardless of what we have on the labour market, they will lack years of work and will not be able to work until the 80th, they will not be able to extend their working life in 30 years. We can expect but there are no vital 80-year-olds who can work, nor are they in sight of it, I appeal, someone would say give the amendment, but it can't be fixed by this law. He's incorrigible. He's an intruder and if we go this way, I say, another coalition partner will come here to some new government and condition us to pass a special law, I don't know what structure, citizens, for students, what I know someone will think of but it doesn't make any sense, it doesn't make any sense, people. There's no point in limiting students' earnings, there's no point in doing decent jobs, or that the cheapest labour force with nominally higher incomes per month, but they're basically punished at the end of the ballad. So, people, we're here to think about what it's going to be like now, but we're here to think about what our society is going to look like in 15, 20, 30 years, it's our responsibility. The responsibility of the Government, responsibility of the Croatian Parliament. Not to raise our hands without thinking, and we like college jobs. So I like students to work, did I say something against student work? No, I support him, but not this way. We change access to those people's welfare in 20, 30 years, not let them be new poor. Poverty is too, too, enough and too much in the Republic and we can't, we simply can't allow the creation of new poverty if we see it. You who are here in this hall after what you've heard from me can't tell us we didn't know. You know that this is an intruder in the labour law system, that this law provides high profits to students, and students make new poor in 20, 30 years, you who now listen to it know and cannot raise your hand peacefully for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183403	Thank you, too. And the last debate on behalf of the clubs is a debate by counterpart Sabine Vosovac on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183404	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. With due respect, the legislator's intensities to strengthen the internationalisation of higher education, to regulate the needs of labour markets, higher education and economy, and the position of foreign students in accordance with the rules of the Republic of Croatia, with the help of extending the definition of students to those who study at higher universities in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of nationality, and to those who are on a high school exchange or those from third countries from EU countries or European economic space, I must say, regardless of the good intensity of this law, that this bill is a classic example of how laws should not be passed or should not be put into the procedure. Let's take a turn why. The front row is a normative nature. There is not a single menu at this time logical reason why we couldn't, for example, regulate this change when we changed the law or passed the Law on Student Affairs in November 2018 here. What changed from November 2018 to today? Did a new directive come into force in the meantime? No, it's not. And in the light of this law, it is said very clearly that it is in line with the Law on Foreigners and the Law on International Temporary Protection, which in this section defined by this law were the same as it is now. As a result, there is not one, but no reasonable reason to violate the Law on the Assessment of the Impact of Regulations, nor is the Code of Consulting with the interested public, which should have been at least 30 days, something was said here and colleague Podolnjak. Seven days of consultation with the interested public. Inadmissible. That the law takes effect on the day of its adoption in the Croatian Parliament or on the first day of its adoption in the Croatian Parliament. Inadmissible. I will remind you of the practice of the Constitutional Court and the recommendations of the Constitutional Court and we at the Ministry of Education have tasted it in time, I will say so, not in making but in making ordinary regulations and decisions that were of exceptional interest to the public and had a wide range of addresses, when we talk about the system of education then it concerns almost every family, where we regularly received packages precisely because of that. There is no discussion and consultation with an interested public less than 30 days, and even less entry into force of the law on the date of adoption, except when it comes to extremely justified reasons which must then be reasoned and addressed together with the proposal for a document or draft public consultation. And the just reasons are: compliance with certain directives or international contracts, some kind of elemental disaster, other obligations that simply prevented the legislator or the proposing to refer to the procedure of the law in accordance with the regular procedure, means two readings. I don't see a reason here, and explain to me what's hiding in this argument. He says: "Because high education internationalisation projects are under way, the current law makes it very difficult to meet the indicators of EU-funded projects and that there is a significant demand for labour in the Republic of Croatia, particularly highly educated, as well as a legitimate need to include as many highly educated labour force as possible during the course of the study as possible, it is proposed that this law be adopted by emergency procedure." So by emergency procedure, you need to deliver a number of students from third countries or EU countries, to whom do you explain? That's why you're passing the law? The normal procedure of the law is at least six months, you're having a public hearing in a month. Whom do you deliver, whom and for whom do you appreciate? That's what I'm asking you. That's what it says in your explanation. Because of the use of funds, the need for regular strength. And now we go to content at a price and whom. So even though it's not the subject of this law, we can't look back on the law we passed here in 2018, we just can't. Both he and his colleague, Hrelja, referred to him again, and the Alliance of Independent Trade Unions of the Republic of Croatia, in a public debate, took note of the public consultation and again of the fact that you re-administered this law which significantly regulates the labour market, the price of labour force again did not consult, you did not consult with the social partners, both for the first time and not now. Why is that? What's the fear for? If you are working in the interest of workers in this case of students, why do you avoid communication with independent unions that simply have the rights of workers, in this case and students regulate and rightly they say that this law is actually wrongly called, the Law on Student Affairs, there are no student jobs, there is work, and now this work is done through the Labour Treaty or through a student contract it's work and that's why we're talking about this topic. It's nice that the past law established a captain's fee or the cost of student work because so far it's been known to be paid differently, in frequent cases not to be paid, which in some way we tried to improve the system, the system of control, but we still haven't solved the systemic issue and the problem that this one might arise, which is next, I will quote exactly unions and consultations with the interested public, on the basis of what the colleague of Hrelja said, so this proposal of a legal solution opens up the possibility of abuse of student status for the purpose of working or concealing a working relationship. In particular, it is particularly problematic in itself that the regulation governing the work of students does not provide for the restriction of the permitted working hours fund for students in view of their academic obligations in the course of studies in accordance with the Bologna system of study, this in addition to the disturbances on the domestic labour market that we have warned about, as well as all trade unions involved in the work, working groups for the production of the 2018 Law on the performance of student work, in this particular case means that there is no obstacle for a third-country national through a full-time student contract, and that employers thus bypass positive regulations, conditions and criteria in the field of foreign employment. All countries are strictly different and, strictly, differ student visas and work visas just so there is no work through student status, this does not mean that foreign students do not have the ability to work in these countries, but also means that this possibility is in some way limited since it is regulated countries. Namely, in the regulated countries students generally work through the Labour Treaty with the state administration body responsible for higher education defining the permitted class in such a way that when teaching takes a student, a student can work up to half a week’s working hours, and when there is no teaching full-week working hours, as well as overtime. They also warn, in the end, we remind another one of the mass and multidimensional abuses and the negative effects of student contracts in the Republic of Croatia, starting with the very name of the law which is incorrect because there are no student jobs, but they do job jobs through a student contract that is cheaper for employers because, for example, only 5% of pension contributions are paid under the contract, not as under the Labour Treaty 20%. Given that, according to some data, around 100,000 students are doing this yearly, that they work for years, that the law has extended the possibility of working through these contracts and to extraordinary students, this law to both third countries and to third countries, then all the negative effects of the law on the Croatian labour market and social security systems can be seen very easily in the long term, which is absolutely unsustainable. We therefore again appeal to the content of this law by the competent authorities of the state administration, in particular the Ministry of Labour and the pension system and the social partners, in a much more serious and responsible manner. I must admit that during the study there were few colleagues and colleagues who were not forced to work during their studies. Unfortunately, the state does not allow free study, the cost of studies in most cases is borne by parents who very often are not able to do so, students must manage how they can and co-finance or fully finance their fates, their studies and their fates if they want better tomorrow with better qualifications for the labour market and more happiness and satisfaction for their personal, professional and family life. However, in this way we are aware of the fact that we have to regulate the labour market and students, we do not help students in this way, because if we wanted to help them then we would enable them to have working contracts, work contracts that we would regulate, which we would allow them to be adequately paid for their work, on the other hand we could somehow get their employers to meet and encourage the employment of students, but on the other hand we would enable them to do this work somewhere later, that what they said to their colleagues and colleagues to get into some kind of work, that it has an effect on their pension, health work insurance, means that this is the way in which we should access this problem, but unfortunately not only does this work, they do not consider this whole story in the package, means with the Ministry, that they are regulated and the pension system and the student's going to have to have a real impact on us, but we are not going to have to be able to be able to do this kind of work. I don't think you're comfortable with the job, you owe at least this House an explanation, if we can't get into the content itself, you have to tell us where the panic is, where the rush is, why no law in your legislation was as urgent as this one, is it because of the upcoming tourist season, which is why we're passing this law? One thing I'm sure of is, because of the students, it was not because of the students, then this item would have been passed in 2018 with that first version of the law, so I ask you to answer some questions here and remove our doubts even though you will not be able to remove the effects of this law if it is adopted in the Croatian Parliament on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183405	Thank you, too. That's what we're done with the debates on behalf of the club, now there's an individual debate. The first reported is counterpart Sasa Djujic, please welcome fellow Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183406	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm gonna keep going in this tone, I don't think this law is bad, I don't think it's good either, but I think it's completely unnecessary, and I should get rid of it as soon as possible, and I'm gonna say the same thing now. So, I'm talking to colleagues who spoke before me, and I think this law only contributes to a worse position for students who actually work and become a cheap workforce, and on the other hand they don't have an internship, they don't have the conditions, they have later conditions for retirement, and they don't have the same chance with their colleagues second. The other thing, it's said here that maybe some of them will be satisfied with this law, what I'm sure is that students can't be satisfied with the work of this government because of the policy this government has towards them, and I'm going to try to explain it further. In addition to this law that makes students in Croatia become a cheap workforce, that they later qualify for retirement, the government took another step that took effect in 1.1 this year, which is deeply unfair to students in Croatia, which is in this tax reform when a person by the age of 25 100% freed of contributions and taxes and 50% to the 30th. And I warned that during the debate on tax reform. What's going on now? It happens that those people who study and who have to work on a student contract, if they're regular students and let's say that someone finishes 5 years and goes to another postgraduate school, means 6 years of school, he goes into the labour market only at the age of 25, and it's not worth the tax policy of this government and the tax charge that those who don't study. Now how does this work on Croatian students? It seems to people that one discriminatory group in Croatian society and who discriminates against them, is discriminated against by the government and what the government is doing, the government is essentially having a negative impact on the labour market itself. Dale, I gave the amendment when there was a tax reform, when I asked to extend the tax discharge for all young people up to 30 years, so that there are those who are worthy, who are studying and who contribute to our society but no, the government has made a discharge 100% for those up to 25, has discriminated them, encourages in fact those who do not study, on the other hand you with this law called the Law on Student Work, so again you encourage some work that is not working income, students have as students but in Croatian health insurance, so they do not have to pay for it, so they do not have it under other laws but have no internship, they do not have pension and do not have other things resulting from the Labour Act. So this should be lifted and it should put students like he said, I think here, a colleague of the Hrelja has made several suggestions. So that would be a whole policy, a whole policy of regulating the labour market in the Republic of Croatia. This way, with this partial wrinkling done by the Government, from one law to another, you essentially bring uncertainty into the Croatian labour market and you do cheap labour, and on the other hand you discriminate against a certain group of society, which in this case are students, since highly educated people who should be the most valuable thing to our society and produce some new values. What are you doing? You are doing everything wrong with this policy, and I don't think about you alone right now, you are not formally members of the government here, but you are implementing the government's policy and you represent their laws, so this HDZ government with the laws of individual mere wrinkles and is doing essentially deeper injustice and is doing a very difficult mess. And that's what these two examples are now, like I said. And it's amazing to me that young people will stay here until they finish college and politics like this when they look at injustice in society, then they'll run away with their heads, and that's why our young people go out there because they're watching what this is, I mean who stimulates who. Yesterday, when we look on the other side of this genius's ability down in Zadar, he said if he's not capable of self-innovating, how are we going to look at the education system in Croatia, watch that policy of yours, so what are you doing out of this country, HDZ? I mean HDZ with my coalition partners. What are you doing? You drive people away and you make everything that's worth leaving because everywhere he looks, there's injustice and there's what HDZ does and there's no talking about the government. This is that 8 ministers leave the government for corruption, so it's all part of this government's policy towards students, towards young people, and it's not good. Here I appeal to you to decide, by the second reading, on an urgent procedure and on an accelerated procedure, to shut down this law. Turn it off, not fix it, not speak regulation, but give up on it and shut it down and start working seriously on a whole policy of regulation of the labour market in Croatia that will then be fair, fair and where we will not produce cheap labour for large centres and for those rich who then do not pay taxes and contributions but that people benefit from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183407	Thank you. We have 10 replicas on your exhibit. He's a colleague of the Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183408	Dear fellow Djujic, we would just like to say that there are no specific jobs that should not be covered by the labour contract and that this is the basis for a working relationship which can be freed by the practice of all European countries of paying other types of contributions, but the labour contract must be a contribution to pension insurance. I talked to these young people, they say what I'm going to save if I start saving in 35 and in the first pillar and in the second pillar and in the third pillar, there's no way. That's why things need to change. This system can't work like this and we can't make sacrifices from our young people. And another correction and additional health insurance is paid for students on the burden of the state budget. So it's already a lot of assumptions, but we have to close the circle differently than it is now closed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183409	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183410	I couldn't agree more with you, Mr. Hrelja. And not only that, not that this law is because of what you said in your debate and what my colleague Glasovac said that I tried to sum up and say unfairly, I know a bunch of people who today in Croatia are not even students and are working on someone else's student contract. Now, that's black work and it's illegal work. So someone works with someone, and someone else who's a student gives him a contract like he did, and that's how some people in Croatia pay off. This essentially shows another injustice of this law or its unnecessaryness I will say so, it is not necessary. So complete work can be done and the sea would be regulated exclusively by a labor contract and then define other things through it, without saying that there are no specific student jobs, so students do everything alive.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183411	Thank you. The next replica of counterpart Maric, followed by counterpart Jovanovic. Comrade Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183412	Thank you very much. Coli Đujic, students are the pearl of the people, the pearl of society and when a student studies and wishes to acquire work habits there is no better basis for the future of the people. And that's why I don't agree that this law isn't necessary, it's very necessary. But in order for the law to be good, you must always follow all illogical points and in all segments how to improve it. This is a reaction only to one request, not to such a request to make access, but to demand how to expand the concept of students. It's spread and okay, that's good, but it's not enough. It really needs to be dealt with in the interest of the student. The work must also be part of the work experience, in order to be a job internship should be paid into the first pension column and it should be regulated by a special law only for students to have this privileged status as they study to do so and to gain a working relationship. But that's why we need to sit down and systematically all the points in the whole area and make a radical change. But we can't be then... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183413	Thank you. Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183414	Dear Maric, we are on the same track, but in different ways. So I advocate that students work and they are the pearl of our society, but let them work through the labor contract. If we're paying through a student contract already in the first pension column, which will give us a student contract, in the second. No, well, okay, so everybody work, so why should students be discriminated against. So they're not doing their job under this contract, so someone who's been working for five years, I've worked alone, I've had an internship through a student contract for three years, three years, I'm going to have to retire instead of working on a work contract for that, so I'm going to miss it. And when I was 30, I realized I was gonna miss it. When I was young, it was important for me to get 100, 200 kunas more pay because my employer gave it to me on a student contract. So it's not good, it's not good, and it needs to be abolished and regulated in another way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183415	Thank you. The next replica of counterpart Jovanovic, followed by counterpart Bacic. Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183416	Thank you very much. Col. Djujic, so Croatia is not a socially mobile society and it is known that children from lower education families are very rare and much worse and harder to graduate from colleges. Therefore, an analysis of the intensity of paying jobs during the study showed that students of lower socio-economic status, lower parent education, lower social status assessment of the family are those who work more during their studies. So, today it works almost 50%, and many of them wouldn't have finished their colleges if they didn't have the opportunity to work, so students should be allowed to work and should be provided with the best conditions in which to work. However, what should be further ensured, which is recommended by a variety of analyses, which is that these students in particular are provided with assistance in the form of a larger number and higher amount of scholarships that would be allocated according to socio-economic criteria and thus would be brought into a more equal position with those coming from medium and higher socio-economic status.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183417	Thank you. Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183418	My colleague Jovanovic, I absolutely agree and advocate a number of scholarships. And on the other hand, I'm going to do it again, and I don't think students are allowed to be cheap labour with a low rate of captainship, and that's exactly what this law allows. And that is why I advocate that this law is changed and that students can work as well as their colleagues who have completed their education without a college and who other young people, or all people who enter the labour market, that students work on equal terms and that ultimately they have all the same benefits and that they are equally paid for their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183419	Thank you. The next replica of Bačić, followed by his colleague Maras. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183420	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Djujic, you have been very critical of this law, you have even stated that this law is not necessary and that you recognise only a contract on work, not any contract that will regulate student affairs and student work. You've been very critical of the government that nothing has been done towards young people and students, and I have to point out that through and through only consulting and through the making of this law they have acted exclusively and made their proposals to members not only of the Student Assembly but of various student associations and of this law in the original form when we were making it, and these changes themselves were exclusively at the request of the students themselves. I don't agree with you that students will become a cheap workforce in this matter, and this is exactly the law that regulates the work on black that took place through student contracts, which is precisely the law that regulates the minimum hour of the students themselves. And as for the government 4.5 billion kuna, it's been spent on youth measures related to employment, and these 100% tax and contributions are related to these... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183421	Thanks, buddy. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183422	Do you think, colleague Bačić, that it's okay for someone who goes to school and starts working for the first time in 25 years, whether it's encouraging for him not to be 100% free, it's going to be 5 years. I don't, 50%, is it okay that he's not 100% free and that at the end of the year he's back next to, like, 18, 20 thousand kunas as someone who hasn't studied in six, seven years? Is that a stimulating measure for people going to college? Here, I'm asking you from HDZ, is that okay with you? So someone who doesn't study, who doesn't get extra school and starts working at 18 at the end of the year will get about 30 thousand kuna back taxes, and someone who's got to have a hard time paying then home, accommodation, expenses, we all know how much schooling costs, he's gonna get half and it's only when he graduates college? Is that okay? I don't think it's a good policy of this government, and I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183423	Thank you. Thank you. Next up is my colleague Maras, after him, a colleague named Sagar, here's a colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183424	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, colleague Djujic. In your debate, and I think that all those who are at least a little bit, who understand themselves in the problem of student employment, unfortunately don't look at us right now, probably work. But let it remain written, they feel that this area is more abused than directly affected by its intensity by the benefits of certain students. So that's more useful to pick up students for a longer period of time, means sometimes a year, and that people work full-time for them, and that's how they pay off their watches, then the whole point of these contracts or those who take fictional contracts and pay off money that way than students benefit from. So you should find a solution, in my opinion, and I believe that you agree, that in the end, just as many students benefit from it and make it one thorough analysis of the entire area [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you.]] Can I just finish the sentence, please? [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you colleague Maras.]] To make one, for this thank you, thank you... [[/Intruder Hajdash Doncic: 7 seconds, 8. Thank you. Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183425	I'm decent, so I'm saying thank you, respect your time like any of your colleagues. Here's an answer to the replica. [[/Intruder Maras: Good. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183426	I agree with you fellow Maras, absolutely. Not to say that students automatically have a smaller amount, that they are less paid for the same job that some non-Students do, through this contract, and therefore all of these anomalies that we mention, resulting from the ability to work in this way, indicate that this is not good and that it needs to be changed and that the system needs to be changed. The system needs to come up and change this, and I just think the solution is that people get paid, that students get paid through work contracts, like everyone else in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183427	Thank you. The next replica is a colleague named Žagar, after him, a colleague named Prelec, here's a colleague, Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183428	Thank you, dear colleague Giujic. So, if we were to talk about student work, this termology, then the ideal student job is the job in the profession that enables students to also acquire competences, work experience, make business contacts, and eventually in the company that is now doing student work, gets a later job contract. And the employers themselves, their competitiveness at this point, if we're already talking about student jobs, can be achieved by not paying the students a health contribution, which they don't have to pay extra insurance and not paying taxes, but of course, in those restrictions that are here at 15 grand for parents and I think that 65 grand for taxes, tax deductions. And I think that these, and those restrictions should be lifted and students really should be put into a situation that I can work and, after all, then have, what you've stated, retirement insurance, you're actually getting a job internship.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183429	Thank you. Here's an answer to my colleague's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183430	Well, I think this is a good debate today, but basically, one law won't solve this problem. So we need to move to a fundamental change of system. We have a bunch of laws, we have contracts, we have these contracts, we have work contracts, student contracts, work contracts, art contracts, so these are all some things that are supposed to suit a particular group that, retired people working now at 4 o'clock, work contracts, but all of these are laws that should benefit a particular group that they refer to, and generally, over time, there are some differences and some kind of a bunch of illogicality. Here, we brought a contract about, for the pensioners, we allowed the pensioners to work for four hours, the crowds are complaining about them now because they're extra taxed, so their pension is now smaller. And in fact, some people don't pay to work at all, and that's, say, one problem that came up only when we started to change this law. That is why we need to approach the fundamental solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183431	Thank you. Next is counterpart Prelec, followed by colleague Mrsic. Comrade Prelec, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183432	Thank you, esteemed chairman, dear colleague. Yes, unfortunately, this law, as well as many other laws that we have passed here in HS, were laws that were hasty and that had no meaning many times. In fact, we are constantly trying to influence them on the law to be better, with our amendments, objections, but these objections are not really respected just because we are an opposition. That's obvious, and here, and on this law and this one you were saying, we talked about tax discharge, and we asked him to be not as he is, discriminatory, because it turns out that the student who studied at 25 and one month of employment has a lower salary than the one who graduated high school, and he started working at 18, at the same time. That's what we really want to point out, that we're making really hasty laws that don't make sense, and I'm sorry about those students who study hard, finish school, and don't have that tax discharge, which they should have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183433	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183434	That's right, colleague Prelec, and not only do they have those who study and learn and sacrifice themselves, let's just say, student study costs. So there are additional costs of accommodation and everything students have to pay for. In addition to being sacrificed and less paid than their colleagues who do not study and enter the labour market before them, they are still being further punished because they will later qualify for retirement and will have to work longer than those who have entered the labour market, which is not good. So, I welcomed the government's idea of tax discharge of young people when she came because I felt that after many years it was one innovation and one new thing, however as they did it in this discriminatory way that the one who studied, invested in himself, and did it punish him in relation to the one who didn't learn, it's not good, it's not good, and it's what HDZ does, divides people and makes new injustices, with every law we have a new injustice new day.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183435	Thank you, next up is colleague Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183436	Dear fellow Djujic, student work is the cheapest work in the Republic of Croatia, which is something we warned about when this law was passed and that students would become the cheapest workforce. The law that has been passed has made some shifts, however, did not make that fundamental move, which is that students do both jobs and night work and jobs for which they are not qualified and that the employer is paid the most at this time in the Republic of Croatia to take a student because it does not even pay a tax as a difference if he hires someone on a contract, for a certain time and for an indefinite period, and that is what is seen and quite certain that this law should not work, it should not have been done by the Ministry of Education but by the Ministry of Labour, why it is so to ask when the law was passed, but again to mention student work is the cheapest work in the Republic and students are the most endangered workers, workers in the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183437	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183438	That is right, student work is the cheapest work in the Republic of Croatia, and students have the greatest needs of all and what is most valuable in Croatian society, in every society, I believe that people who invest in themselves, in their knowledge, invest in society and tomorrow should benefit from some of them, and with this kind of discrimination policy against these people we will have that they leave the Republic of Croatia even more and it is not by chance that it is 2016. by 120%, the number of people leaving the Republic of Croatia, 2016, '17, '18, meaning since the arrival of this government has doubled the number of people who leave the Republic of Croatia every year, and this is not an accident and this is the data, accurate data from the State Statistics Institute, and this is because this government is producing injustice in Croatian society, there are plus other things and therefore young people are leaving and will leave even more as long as it is this government in power. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183439	And the last replica of your exposure, colleague Marko Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183440	I thank you, dear colleague, and I believe that this law should be passed because it refers to a student population in which students are primarily students, and only then do workers or employees work thanks to student contracts. It is clear that laws regarding a particular population are needed, and I would not want us to moralise from this stage, because for those students who do not develop working habits there is always the possibility of getting past all employment contracts, beyond all working criteria, which is to become parliamentary representatives. They will be able, as you can see from these working places, to be able to give in to meditation, to contemplate about what they were doing as students, what the cost of work was, and for that at the same time they will get paid. I think it's this, that as a university professor who is in contact with students that this law is necessary and that it responds to certain problems that the student population has, which are primarily the student population.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183441	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183442	I do not agree with you, colleague Vučetic, because I do not think that students will lose the right to work if this law is not and no one here is saying that students should not work, on the contrary, we all say that they should work, but that they should work on fair and fair terms as other people do, even their age people who are in the Republic, so there is no dilemma, so someone who is 23. And he's working, and he's not studying, but he's finishing high school and he's 23. and schools and invests in themselves should work under the same conditions, that's what I'm saying, and not that people or students should be banned from working and that if this law doesn't vote they won't be able to do, it's not true, they'll be able to do it on much worse terms than they do today than people who do normally under the Labour Treaty.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183443	Thank you, we'll continue, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183444	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club of 10 minutes to warn the public of one important difference, and that's the difference between law-making laws that will regulate a particular area, in this case it's about student work and our practice in which we would like to legalise, from this debate it's quite obvious, and it's a violation of the law. If someone is taking advantage of student work and working with students in order to fine and wrong things, or to do other things, and paying that fee to students, it's a criminal part, and we can't because we're not able to be able to because of too long education in corrupt consciousness and acceptance and corrupt consciousness, to oppose crime, we want through one law, the Law on Student Affairs, we want to become fighters against crime, so that crime is an argument for us to counter the needs of one population, this is absolutely illogical to me and therefore, in the name of the club, I'm looking for a break, so if we think that someone is breaking the law, we need to enter the area of criminal responsibility, then we need to bring laws that prevent such criminal activity, and we can't afford to pay false love and false care to students who, again, are students in the 40 hours of working time, so we can're in the first degree, so we can't be able to use ourselves in the right way, so that we can't be able to do the right things in the right time, so when we can's to do time, because we can't need to be able to do time to do time, when we's to do time to do time to do it to do time, to do time, to get to get to get to get to get to get to get to do the right, to get to do the right, to do the right, to do the right, to get to get to get to do the right, to get to do the right, to get to do the right, to do the right, to do the right, to do the right to do the right, to do the right to get the right, to get the right, to do the right, to do the right time to do the right to do time, to do time to do time to do time to do time, to do time to do time to do the right to do time to do time to do time to do time to do time to do time to do time, to do time to do time to do time to do time to do time to do time to do time, to do time, to do time to do time to do time, to get to do time to do time to do time to do time, to do time to do time to do time to do time to do time
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183445	Thank you, we have another break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183446	Thank you, Vice President. I'm looking for the same break on behalf of the HDZ Club just about this law because I think we're going in a completely wrong direction and instead of, we don't have to normally praise, normally we need to be critical of every legal proposal, that it's better and better quality for our citizens, here in this case for students, but I think we're definitely going in one wrong direction, we're constantly talking about some kind of discrimination, we're constantly talking about this law being unnecessary, we're not taking what is quality and good out of the legal proposal itself. When we talk, exactly what we hear from colleagues especially here on the left, let's talk about our young people. that this government has freed taxes and contributions from young people up to 25 years of age, and those from 25 years of age, 26 to 30, 50% of taxes and contributions, we see this as some kind of negativity, that's no negativity, and that's not just young people's incentives, and it exclusively applies to students. We are constantly saying here that this discrimination is about students because they will not be able to use this proposal and this decision and these changes to the laws of the government itself. We have to think, it's not just about students, we encourage vocational education here, we encourage high school students. We are constantly living in the delusion that Croatia will be of 4.5 million people who will all be educated. We cannot ignore people who have graduated from high school especially professional education that is missing and we have a deficit on the labour market, we ignore them and we do not think about what number of people this is and how much this government incentive brings to them. Not to mention, the government hasn't done anything for young people, it hasn't done anything for students, it's the law to encourage students, so we've increased the number of people who are going to enter the student system, not to mention 4.5 billion kuna incentives and youth employment measures that this government has done in its term in these last three and a few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183447	The next break on behalf of the HSS and Democrats' Club of Representatives, colleague Mrsic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183448	I am looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and Democrats with the goal of warning all the illogicalities that this law produces, which we were already saying when it was debated that the intention was noble and good to solve the problem of student work because until then it will be solved only by that regulation that was passed in the mid-90s but it has proved that it has not solved but has made it even worse for students because under this law and regular and students can work and what is now happening is that we now have more and more students in the system who cannot carry out their student duties because if you want to work through a student service and earn a decent salary, then you have to work at least 6 to 8 hours a day and these are not jobs that are in line with what you will do when you finish college than some low-paid jobs. And if you work eight hours a day and you're still traveling from one end of town to another, and we're not talking about traveling from one city to another, then you don't have time to learn. And that's what's wrong with this law. We have a problem in Croatia that over 50% of our students don't finish their studies and this law will make it even worse because you put yourself in the position of a student or a student who works somewhere in a shop for 8 hours a day, then comes home, about 8 o'clock in the evening, when will she study? You have examples that the students then begged their teachers to postpone their exams, some went out to meet him, some did not meet them. And that's what we've been saying all along, let's regulate student work in a different way, so it's fully protected. Not to say that students work at night without being paid for it, that they work on Sundays, that they're not paid, that's the problem with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183449	Thank you, thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183450	Thank you, Vice President. Article 238, I had to react because already the fifth debate is constantly talking about the truths that 238. Students on average work one month 90% of them, so... [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: A colleague...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183451	My colleague, you're going into debate, this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm assigning you in accordance with an article. 238th actually 239th notice, thank you. Here's a break on behalf of the HNS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183452	Thank you, Vice President. In fact, it would be very interesting if colleagues and colleagues who listened here to the reasons for asking for a break, his colleagues did not, unfortunately, have him here who had made it very clear, plastically explained the whole essence of this law. Apparently, some colleagues use this topic to point out their dissatisfaction with the government policy, which is completely legitimate but I have the impression that even some of them are treating some of their own frustrations through what I think is wrong. Of course, this very short change also eliminates that potential discriminatory factor in the basic based law. What are college jobs? Who's the student? Who can work? I remember, I'll take it for a long time, and as a student I worked, which were then conditions and which are today, it's heaven and earth. And I studied to remind some before the '90s. Unless some things are clear. What laws were then, as it was then valorized about esteemed work and how today, it is heaven and earth, 10 times the minimum valorisation of relationships to work than it was then. I'm talking about student affairs. Furthermore, it is primarily for a student to study, to learn, this is in some way whether extra time is useful to work or someone perhaps out of need. I would only remind many, student scholarships, how many just this year and previous years the Ministry of Science and Education has divided the scholarship especially for the stale area and the fact is that in that system has been abused this time and this just allows for the abuse of student work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183453	Thank you. We have another break, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183454	Thank you very much. I'm reporting for a break because he's offered now and the debates of other clubs, especially here at the HNS club who probably wants to justify what this law comes from Minister Divjak's portfolio, which I think should pay a little more attention to, since she's a university employee to the students. And there wouldn't be a debate here at all if there wasn't a big gap in practice and if there were students, I don't know how someone who works at the student center and who controls it, maybe in Inspectorate, maybe Mr. Mikulić or someone else, how does he not suspect that there are thousands and thousands of students who have 200 hours a month? How is it possible, then, that they carry out their duties as Mr Batinic said, and this happens from month to month. These people don't work out of hobbies, these people don't do because of what they're doing here, and a little less exams are given than they're simply forced to do. People have to make some money so they can live in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split in order to facilitate their parents' student time. So what we're saying here is that there's double injustice on those students. It is one thing that they do not have the conditions to study quality because the state does not allow them to study it relatively cheaply in the city of Zagreb. And secondly, employers who use the student contract to work for months and for some 200 hours a month pay them as much as they have to, and the state and the students are cut off primarily by students for payments that should be paid in relation to them that they are in a regular working relationship. So these are the things we're talking about here, and that's the injustice that doesn't get right, but in a few cases. So on this side, it is normal to warn about it, it is no frustration but the reality that we have in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183455	Thank you. So I'm taking a break by 12.45 hours. Thank you. 12.45. It's 12.28 o'clock. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12.45 HOURS]] Next is colleague Domagoj Mikulić. Here's my colleague Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183457	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the respected state secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow parliamentary deputies. I am pleased that the Law on the conduct of student affairs challenges the interest and the public, as well as our parliamentary representatives. We passed this law in 2018, here we talk about certain changes within the laws themselves, some changes that we would like to make to correct certain injustices. In 2018 we brought this law here in the Parliament and we took a major step in regulating the operation through student service, we have also made it possible for students to work through student service, we have also made it possible for a larger minimum hour, which today and for 2020 is 25.39 kuna. With this law that we passed in 2018, we directly helped improve student standards, but also allowed a large number of young people to pay either by their work or their studies or their study costs and without being exclusively cost to their families. At the same time as today, certain criticisms were aimed at discrediting this law, saying that the adoption of the law itself in the conduct of student affairs would shake up the labour market and lead to numerous layoffs, proved incorrect and the law lived exactly the way it was meant and just as it should have been with the protection of workers from exceptional layoffs and the possibility of hiring students to their jobs. Today, we are correcting a failure which, during adoption and at this time, has been shown by a number of student associations, student choirs that in practice meet with a large number of students who participate in student exchanges, and this failure by adopting these amendments will enable these students to work, and of course we are correcting the lack of previous law, or a legal gap that has made it impossible for individual students to do so. By extending this definition of students in terms of the Law on the conduct of student activities, we will also enable students who come to our country to make their stay in the Republic of Croatia financially easier through student work, and also what I am glad to correct and wrong towards our students who are studying outside the Republic of Croatia, and we have plenty in BiH and Slovenia, both in Serbia and Hungary, but also in the number of other European countries. When we talk about student jobs, we must also bear in mind that, to a large extent, the largest part of the funding of the student standard rests the activity of earnings and commissions contributed by student services. Without these funds and the student centres themselves would be much harder to function, and I am convinced that we all aim and interest as best standard students as possible. I am convinced that this law will help internationalise higher education, regulate labour market needs, strengthen the necessary cooperation between higher education and the economy, and improve the position of foreign students in the Republic of Croatia as well as our students studying in foreign countries. The only thing I feel sorry for is the message that students here or individuals are sending to me today is that they do not understand what students are, which are their problems and should always be kept in mind that they are primarily students and who see this work as an additional financial stimulant to their completion of the study, and only then become classic workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183458	Thank you. There was no replica to your presentation, so we're moving forward with the individual debate. Next up is a colleague of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183459	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. A topic that has been opened, changed, corrected several times in this term and still needs to be completed, or that we have a better law because there are some problems that we simply have to react to. As my colleague said before me, so the law we changed in 2018, the debate was, some things were improved, today is the minimum Captain 2020. 25.39 lipa, which ultimately shows that students can make a little more money than in recent years, but the problem which is the main problem that we don't solve at all, and we should solve it is that many employers use students for regular jobs, not occasionally, not as I would say supplementing their study income but as a regular job for people to be able to live quality, in order to be able to study at all, and in particular it is present among students in recent years of study because then students have fewer compulsory lectures, some have no more classes than just certain exams, they have to do and solve graduates. And usually this period lasts from one year to two, as in whom, where they work, they already work de facto on a daily basis with employers and get paid not on a labor contract but on a student contract. And then rarely happens, so I think it's classic abuse and exploitation of students that someone's been working on some technical work for two years. It's often about service activities used by various agencies, etc., on these 25 kuna work people 200 hours 5,000 kuna, working for two years until they lose their right or get hired somewhere else and then new students come. And these companies are constantly finding themselves a cheap workforce, using students, using their situation, which is that parents can't always and many of them, not forever but can't finance them at all, and simply students are forced to work. And on the other hand, I'm not reluctant for the state to find a special status for those students who have a last year or a year and a few days a certain period of time when they have less classes and can work, but that it's not done this way. Because this is how students are used, students steal, although it doesn't look like it at first, what some colleagues have said before, students don't even think about certain contributions that are not paid in this way, which could be paid. They don't think about the second pillar, they don't even think about it, they care about getting 5, 5 and a half, 6 thousand kuna, which, I say, are bloody profit and competition, the competitiveness of certain companies is achieved through less labour costs. Now, we didn't, we didn't end it with amendments to the law in 2018, like we didn't cancel the illogicalness, and I think it's really illogical, when we talk about extraordinary students, it's those students who don't have the obligation to go to class, which are meant to study with work, to have status that they can work this way, so we opened up to them, or their employers, to have a cheaper workforce and to pay them less contributions than they should. I don't think that's good. An extraordinary student can be someone who is 40, 50, 55 means anyone who doesn't have a college can be educated in this way and it's commendable and I support it, but I need to be aware that this way should not do a service to those who should honestly work and pay for the work of these people and not thus earn certain additional profits and profits. So it's something that we definitely have to solve as a problem in this law. Is that gonna be a year, the sooner, the better. As far as control is concerned, I'm not sure God knows how much control he's in. Inspectorate, I doubt there's an example of abuse of student contracts here and there, which certainly, there's much more to it than we're aware of. So good intentions, good intensity, can ultimately result in more benefit being drawn by those who shouldn't benefit from it than by students whose law is meant for it. So for occasional jobs, for occasional jobs, we can't, after all, transform the law written for occasional jobs into a law that solves working relationships that lasts several years. I find you right now on the blind 20 companies in Zagreb, for example, marketing, which are so engaged, that they have a year, two students, and then they just change them. So when you lose your status, there comes a new assistant who works on projects, like this or like that, whether a copywriter, if someone who's going to work some design, 20 companies now, give me just 5 minutes, call and ask if you have students and they'll tell you that they have, but they won't tell you that they're working in continuity for 2 years because then they would see that there isn't, it has nothing to do with this law intensification that was but it's only about employment, or an additional two years cheaper workforce than it's supposed to be. Why don't you hire these people, whether people graduate? So they've done everything, they're waiting for a degree, they're waiting for certain things, maybe two more exams to pass, and the de facto diploma doesn't change their business, they could hire them for full-time work, pay them 5, 6 thousand kuna, and pay those contributions that they should be paying or this one, use this measure that we have since 1.1.2020 for under 30 years, so people would get their taxes back in 2 years. What the state has promised them and made it possible. So on that side, of course these companies don't want it because this is cheaper for them, and we're still giving them neither control nor restriction. Why couldn't we put in law if there was a limit to working full-time for half a year? If he's a regular student, here. This for occasional work would be no limit, but they would see that there are many companies that use it for normal working relationship with students who have already cleared all their obligations, except possibly graduate and use their status which can, for example, be used, if you have, help in traffic, have something cheaper public transportation or something cheaper food at the student centre, I advocate it because it is helping a young man, but here it is not helping a young man, here helping their employer who is well-insured by 5 and a half, 6 thousand kuna and ultimately has 2,000 kuna less costs directly from the pocket of that young man or state himself in his pocket, and that is not the intensity of this law and I guarantee you, blindly, that there are thousands of such student contracts in Zagreb. Thousands. Wherever I find myself in a company like this, I ask if there's anyone in college, they say that, yes, I don't know, 10 of them, accounts change them, etc. So on the other hand, take care of it, correct that injustice, so no one is against that status being improved, to make it easier, to be able to do foreign students, as our students can do elsewhere outside of Croatia, if it's some exchange for occasional jobs, but if it's about what I absolutely feel like to do here, that it's taken a wave, that it's not an exception, but it's become even a rule, you do an anonymous survey among students in recent years, how many of them are doing full-time through a student contract. So do it, these people would do it anyway. So their employers would have to hire these people one way or another because they needed them. There's nothing to help out of line for those students that's easier to hire, it's only cheaper for those who took them. And I don't think that's right, if it wasn't right, that we should change it to damage the very ones that the law was written for, so students and people are just going into the labour market, but we haven't taken any step forward and it would be good to do the next amendment to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183460	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183461	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Maras, so we have in the debate a relatively simple amendment of the law or as complicated as we want, so we define the concept of what a student is. We're going to an emergency procedure because there's obviously been a problem. You've really asked a number of questions in the debate, but a series of questions is control. So, students have always worked with the study process for different reasons and for different initiatives. It is always good if you have a chance to do jobs related to what you study because it makes it easier for you to gain more knowledge. But it's always been a control issue. The problem of controlling who is using this, the problem of control that student contracts have often been done by others, so that's what I think needs to be strengthened and what needs to be taken into account in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183462	Thank you. Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183463	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So absolutely, but to see here, a real number of problems, or how many students are involved when we talk about a university in Zagreb that has over 50,000 students and let's say that it ends up to 10,000 students in the City of Zagreb each year. I guarantee you that in Zagreb 2,000 people have been working this way for several years. So 2 years as far as I can stretch. And if they saw how much money that was, how many of these students are losing, then this issue of control is absolutely being asked, maybe nobody's controlling it alive. Tell me, do you know how many people work full-time a year from students? Are these occasional jobs? So he doesn't even know the state. That's what this is about. No one recorded or controlled it anywhere, and at the student center they could control it. Very simply, I will now write this question myself to see how many companies there are in continuity in Zagreb to use students of the year. And more days. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183464	The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183465	Comrade Maras, you have touched the problems of an extraordinary study in your discussion. So what we should clearly say is that our extraordinary study is rarely solved in such a way that students have the same workload as students who are regular. So it's in the beginning wrong. They should be introduced such a model of study with partial burdens for students studying at work. So, you can't have students who are registered with an emergency to have everything identical as students who study regularly. Among other information that only 40%, that 40% of students quit during the study is a data that concerns us and we have to do everything in all study segments to increase that number. Also, for all those who work, regular students would do well if they were working in the profession during their studies to say this to them in order to get rid of the mandatory professional practice they can have, e.g. If a person is studying a sisterhood in a higher school and works at the same time in some departments where he should, he should be relieved of his compulsory practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183466	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183467	Thank you very much. I couldn't agree more with you. In addition to his need to admit it as a practice, I would say that his employer must also pay him contributions to a job he does, as if it were his employee. So there are a whole series of things that still need to be regulated and defined here because 1,000 and 1,000 of our students are unfortunately damaged by these shortcomings and shortcomings that we have in current legislation. So I'm just curious, here's another time I'm going to do it, how many companies use it that way for students to work in their continuum for a year and more days on a captain, which is clearly the one that guarantees a daily job of eight and more hours. So that's one piece of information that we would get here when we talk about this that would be very, very useful to us to see certain shortcomings.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183468	The next one is the respected representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183469	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Maras you've been doing a lot of work here, thousands and thousands of statistics the student center has and I think in 2018, when we passed the law we used to work here with exact exact figures and they were, you all read from the left-hand position of the union and that's okay. The trade unions are in motion against this bill and normally they defend workers' rights in some way, but they don't handle statistics, and the ministry does. The student centres have certainly thrown out statistics along with student choirs and it is not such a continuous figure. So 80% of students work a month a year, that's all in the summer period, the biggest retention in the same employer is 3 months. And that's one small percentage of students. So no more of this, it's no longer cheap and it's no longer cost-effective to stay to study to work, as it was before. By introducing the bologna, it's gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183470	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183471	Thank you very much. But for what you just said last, that's impossible. It means the longest detention in the employer is three months. And when you nod your head, I know people who work for more than three months, so I think it's your stats. I know personally people who work, don't laugh, I mean, I mean, I mean, it's stupid for me here to tell the firm, but I know personally people who work at a marketing agency for a year. What? ... And now you've just said that the longest detention in the employer is three months, now you're telling me it's two cases. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] That's not two cases, that's hundreds, and you'd dare say thousands of people. So, but that information we can get from the student center and I'll look into it in the parliamentary question, I'm interested in how many students in continuity are working with the same employer for more than 3 months, what you said and then we'll be, then we'll all be clear that this contractual relationship about work is, or is occasional employment, here, here, and I look forward to that answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183472	Answer, respected MP Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183473	I thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Maras, it is up to us to create an assumption of a better life for our students, and it definitely includes student work, of course, that the different fates of all students and this form of employment represent truly the occasional jobs that are of great benefit to them, which are financial and also to acquire certain habits. Also part of these funds goes to all students because part of the funds goes to the standard of all students such as accommodation and nutrition. You've been giving some examples here, and I'd like to invite you if you have any information on the abuse of whether this law whether or not the student's work is to report you, and you said that the employer as long as he has the ability to hire students won't hire a worker, I don't think that's the right approach from the employer, but neither is your thesis. Since the employer will always hire... [[Intruder: Thank you]] whether you're a student or not. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183474	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183475	Thank you very much, so what I'm saying is it's not abuse, it's allowed by this law that you take a college student on a student's contract, he's working with you nonstop until, for a long time, what kind of abuse it is, so he has the right to work, no, not on someone else's, I didn't say he's working on someone else's contract, he's working on his contract, in that and it's a problem, he's working on his contract, instead of giving him a contract, the employer gives him a student contract because of what's cheaper, that there's no possibility of giving him a student contract, then he'd give him a contract of work, and then less damage would have a student or a chance to pay a contribution, so that on that side, the problem is what the legislation allows him to take advantage of students, here is what I want to say and not to say that we don't talk now how much of them, I't know, I'm sure that we'll get the answers from the thousands of the centre, so we'll get the real answer, and we'll get the power, so we'll get the power from the students, so we'll get the students, so we'll get the thousands of the students, so we'll get the power, thanks. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183476	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183477	Thank you very much, Vice President, State Secretary with an associate, colleagues and colleagues, well, whenever we have some law on debate we are discussing a little wider, so today, compared to the technical changes of this law, we have gone to the breadth of full student work, the student standard, and of course that's good. As for these changes that are subject to today, we don't really have much to say or be against, it's something that should have been solved in the first place when we passed the law, because it's not really these changes today that I think we can just support. Since the debate took place and in some other directions, I would also like to say a few sentences and quote some relevant studies that were done on this subject, it is clear that in the Republic of Croatia, because of the poorer economic situation, more and more students worked in 2010, 33%, 2014 worked 39% of students, and according to data that is not complete now, around 45%, therefore this clearly shows that the socio-economic status of the population of the Republic of Croatia requires students to work during their studies and that they could also finance everything they need to be able to finance. Why does it matter? In one publication that I think we all got, access to higher education and social dimension in the Republic of Croatia key data, when it comes to student work, the student work is a possible problem in terms of fair access to education because it can affect academic success and not giving up on studies. So, if we know that 40% of students give up during the study it's a worrying fact because the Republic of Croatia is still lagging behind in the percentage of highly educated citizens, so we have to do everything we can to make that percentage drop. So, various studies have shown that the consequences of student work on attending, attending classes and success studies indicate that full-time work or part-time work in some cases can negatively affect academic success and abandonment of studies. Therefore, students who do not receive financial assistance from the family work more often during the semester. In higher education systems whose state and financial support systems for students are not exhaustive, students spend more time working than studying in relation to other systems. Work study can damage the academic level although there are differences in terms of the field of study and have a negative impact on the share of the highly educated population. The same report for the Republic of Croatia states that students older than 30, exceptional students, and students of lower socio-economic status work more often. Data from the Department of Statistics confirm this claim and indicate that children of highly educated parents are less likely to work full - time during their studies. For example, in a group of students, professional studies, only 11.8% of higher socio-economic status students worked during the study as opposed to even 35% of lower socio-economic status students, so these are clear data that points to us in which direction our activities must go towards students coming from families with lower socio-economic status. Data from the State Statistics Institute also states how students who study with work in most cases work in professions that are not directly related to their field of study, so it would be good if they already work in the fields of their study, which is twice the benefit of both financial and professional. Students who have studied with work on average are instructed by greater financial difficulties than students who have not worked. Students who have studied with work particularly for full-time have assessed their overall burden to be significantly higher than students who have not worked, so what is important is that when we talk about student standard, so we should try to ensure that students do as little as possible because it clearly reflects on the percentage of study completion, study duration, rather than that we should do everything in accordance with both the recommendations and with our education, science and technology strategy to ensure that so-called. indirect support that dominates Croatia towards direct support, especially towards students of lower socio-economic status, because it will then mean that it will be able to fully devote itself to studying and complete its study in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183478	Thank you. We have two replicas. She's one of the most respected advocates of Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183479	Thank you very much, Mr. Jovanovic. In your debate, you said what, I think, is the main point of this law and the situation where our students are in, which is that I can finish college as soon as possible and start working on the labour market, educate them and allow them to find a job in the Republic of Croatia and be fairly paid for the honest work they do. It's our intensity, or government, and we should work on it every day, what I'm afraid we don't have today, and it shows that a lot of students are looking for a job, and I forgot to mention it, but I looked at the statistics on the Internet a little while ago. Yes, there are trade chains very involved, and now that I'm spinning the film, I see that I saw the same lady in the same chain of commerce that she's wrapped presents both this and last year, so she's been working in continuity as a student for over a year. So such people unfortunately have everywhere, the state should insist on... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183480	Here you go. [[Intruder Maras: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183481	Thank you very much, colleague Maras. So, I'm going to repeat what I said several times today, so I absolutely need to allow students to work, not to be damaged in any way at all, but that this work is not a burden that will make it impossible for them to complete their studies at all, and therefore the state, the ministry should do everything possible to increase the number of scholarships, both for those excellent and for those lower socioeconomic status because it will actually be the right way to make it possible to finish college as soon as possible, to get a job, to do a full job, and then enjoy the well-deserved pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183482	The next replica of the respected MPs, Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183483	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Col. Jovanovic, you said in the introduction that it was a simple change, but it always turns into a much wider discussion which, when it comes to students, student affairs, study is extremely important. This debate, I must admit that I understand about what you said, which makes our students not have to work with the study, while, she tells extraordinary students, students who are over 30 years old and everything else, that's some other story. But what to do, which is politics, what are the financial measures that actually students don't, don't have to do, don't force them to work, because I guess most of them do because they have to. Here I distinguish those who experience this work as a background related to the university or what it is. So, if there's a magic wand, I'm afraid it doesn't exist, but a series of measures exist. And they should be spoken of. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183484	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183485	Thank you very much. Here, colleague Mrak-Taritash, I will quote this document where it says, the financial aspects of study include the incomes and costs of students and the financial difficulties they face. To respond to these challenges, financial assistance should be directed to public-source students to improve the situation of more vulnerable groups of students, and assistance should be granted primarily according to the need criteria. The bodies of the state administration and self-government should grant scholarships according to the criteria of need, while higher universities can grant scholarships according to the criterion of excellence. Financial assistance to students from public sources is primarily based on direct forms of assistance in the form of scholarship. Consider whether the ratio of public investment to direct forms of assistance to students and subsidies and in direct forms of assistance from scholarships is in line with the principle of fairness and efficiency. These are guidelines that actually show everything that should be done, which is in line with the strategy of education science and technology brought by HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183486	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183487	Dear ladies and gentlemen, what distinguishes students who work through student service from other employees is that these students have occasional jobs, their job is not safe. On the other hand, they have no right to vacation. We have a situation today that some people use students to actually work instead of employees because it's cheaper for them. If they don't work one month a year, that month doesn't have to pay anyone. If the employee goes to their hospital, if the student goes to sick leave, i.e. He gets sick, they don't pay for it, they don't have that problem. Which will say that there is currently a problem with the use of students, so I suggest changing the essential thing, which is the amount of the classes, i.e. to raise the price of student work in order to adequately pay students for their work, and that, on the other hand, employers no longer have too much savings in hiring students instead of permanent workers. Unfortunately, I am afraid that the legislator does not care about students, neither from Croatia nor from abroad who are now able to work, although I personally support that foreign students can work through student services. I have absolutely nothing against it. But, I repeat, the cost of student work needs to be raised. The question that arises is why does the ruling majority not want to raise the cost of student work? Now, that's a second-row question. I believe that I have pointed out the essence of the problem that I see and also that the government is doing nothing to change the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183488	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183489	Thank you, dear vice president of HS, State Secretary, once again. We have set out in different directions to discuss this bill which we are going to pass by emergency procedure, which I think that certain changes that bring are quality, good consequences about the internationalisation itself and our universities that are increasingly cooperating, are growing more and more of our students on the exchange, and vice versa students who are not citizens of the Republic of Croatia are increasingly at our higher universities and I think that this will definitely not only intrigue students of the surrounding countries but also worlds for studying in Croatia but will provide them with one basic right that students have and that we know that students enjoy, i.e. Right to student work. We've had a lot of discussion about what student work is, what are student jobs, is it the same thing, whether it's part-time work, whether it's permanent work, we're doing a lot of statistical work here, and I think I can agree with the opposition that we need a little numbers in particular in terms of this law. So it was important to see between 2018 when we passed this law and today what changed. So we introduced one great thing, and it's into the system of student service and student jobs we introduced a large number of extraordinary students, which is a great thing. On the other hand, it wouldn't be bad with a break of about a year and a half, two days to see what's changed, how many of these students are just enjoying that right and how many students, how much they've changed, the way they're studying themselves, and just using the right to student jobs. As far as the statistics themselves are concerned, I am sorry that I did not extract the exact figures with which I was working in 2018 they probably changed, but looking at the only student centre in Split I think that 86 to 90% of students who use the right to study work are taking advantage of the 4 months of the season. This refutes the the thesis of trade unions that have also been involved in public consultation with the use of students as a cheap workforce, to pay less contributions, that the state is losing a certain amount of money and that it is jeopardising the very workers whose employers no longer give any work contracts but use students for different jobs. It means only 10% of students, and I think the Split student centre is great because it is only tied down to the season so it can be an example for all of Croatia as regards the use of student work. In these 10% students we have, I agree there are students who, unfortunately or perhaps, work for the whole year, there are students who work for the same ten percent to 3 months at the same employer's, have students whose work is strictly necessary for the sake of finance and to make it easier for them to just study, pay for expenses and housing, food and other things, but there are students who use normal student work in mind and practice themselves, but also prepare for the work that awaits them tomorrow because just the largest number of those employers who use students as a full-time workforce are companies such as Siemens, Ericsson and others who definitely keep those students most likely and retain in the very system of work of their companies. So we don't have to fall exclusively for the pain and fear of the unions themselves that this will endanger the labour market. We are aware of the statistics of the labour market itself, we are aware of what interests we lack, which workers we lack, I think that students, especially now and this international character can only help this statistic. As far as the job experience itself is concerned, I am definitely here to find some kind of formula that is precisely student work that will be done by the student, so that for a month, three months, half a year, especially in certain interests of health and other professions where this internship and this traineeship is absolutely necessary, to make it easier for these students and to somehow enter this student work either as a working internship or in some other form that we here formulate al that will help them tomorrow at work, but which will help them to skip some steps tomorrow when they go into the world of work after their studies. As far as these other concerns are concerned, I agree, if each of us has studied, each of us has worked during the course of the study, I agree that if you enter the entire year through a student service system, you will find it difficult to carry out your student duties, but by introducing Bologna we can no longer say that there are those abuses like before where people were de facto enrolling colleges to have the right to a student service card that they might give to someone else to use and thus income themselves some money. It's just too expensive now, and you don't have the option to continue studying to just use study as a right to extract the student service itself. So that definitely doesn't stand, and I don't think that anyone else is enrolling in a study of that kind of order just to use the right to student work or God forbidd and give that student contract to someone else. We can talk a lot here and about the income of a student service contract. I believe that in the debate itself, but also in the preparation of this law, there has been a lot of debate with the Croatian Student Assembly and the regulation of exactly where the fee itself and all this which the student service receives, and these money that remains from the student work only to the student centre and the service and where it will be spent, is the principle provision that will be spent in the development of the student standard, is asked by the ministry to discuss in more detail and to prescribe what is all this, what enters the student standard, and how the student centres themselves, together with the choirs, associations and other and other components of the universitys, can spend that income. In the opening line, I mentioned what, which was sent to me by the student choir here and by the president of the Croatian Student Assembly who came from my university Mateo Marusic and where they saw the same small hole under the quotes in the law, and these are students who have frozen the year, students who have opened the rest of their academic year, in principle when we look ok, we can agree with the ministry and its interpretation that these students do not have the right to eat after the year, to live unless they are disabled, but also with the fact that they do not have the right to study but we have to look a little wider, the very institute of freezing studies can be what for the future and for the previous year, so we have to be a little more sensitive there. I don't think it's a joke anymore, before it was those three rules of rest, it was a military deadline, a pregnancy and a serious illness, now we've thrown out a military deadline, it's just a disease or some sudden situation, or we see a lot of cases now that the study year is freezing for pregnancy which is good, but then we have to look at those students, here's a particular one of those students who may have to rest, maybe have to keep their pregnancy, maybe they have to open up the year freeze for it, but they can do simple jobs from home. I think if he's studying or doing translation or something, he can do it freely from home, secure himself a certain income, and I think we should definitely make it possible for such students, that we don't take another item, which is when a student enters a retirement study year, it lasts 12 months, a whole year. And the circumstances for which he has opened only rest and this disease that has arisen, thank God, does not have to last for a full 12 months, such a circumstance of a particular disease can be resolved in 3 or 6 months. And then it's a shame not to let that student get back to his own rhythm as soon as possible and that study rhythm means to go back to his student rhythm in a way that's part-time. With all the concerns that this will endanger the labour market, that this will create a particular problem, that this goes exclusively to employers on hand, I think that we must definitely stand there what is said to fit on the balloon, look at statistics, students are very wise citizens of the Republic who know when to use their rights especially labour rights, and that is exclusively in 90% of cases, only in the season in those 4 months. when they can earn decent money and help their households to continue to study easier without just mentioning statistics that up to 25, up to 30 years now a young man is tax-free and contributes 50% or 100% as an employee so that the student is no longer so cheap when we look at it from that side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183490	Thank you, we have some replicas. Honorable representative, Dark Tarritash, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183491	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Members, at the very beginning of your debate, you set out as you were going to actually support this amendment of the law because it is one of the problems that has been found but then you referred to the students in Croatia, among other things saying that it might be one of the reasons that they will be able to work, and then there we will be interesting. I'm afraid it won't be, but I think the Croatian universities should be interesting and that they may be in some other options, in some others, so if their position on the university ranking list is bigger, if you have interesting programs, you have some inventive programs because I'm just going to compare two data. For example, 1,000 inhabitants in Slovenia are 1.5 foreign students and in Croatia 0.7, this may have improved, but we may have reached 0.3. So we have to offer some programs, some studies to be interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183492	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183493	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues, I agree with you, I think our universities have been doing great steps in the last few years to promote their own study programs, but also in modernising them, and to keep up with time and to be acceptable and tempting to all students. We're having trouble not opening the topic now, and the student accommodation itself, which is quite expensive in the southern counties, there are costs of studying getting bigger and bigger so that universities are definitely working on it. I have to take an example of my University of Split which is here, but 3 years in a row is the best university in the Republic of Croatia, which is jumping to the rankings of world universities and not just its scientific activities and articles, but exactly what has been done to increase and strengthen student standards, and that is the very quality and accommodation and food and student activities and everything, that is what makes us attractive on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183494	The next is a replica of the respected representative Damjan Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183495	Dear fellow, don't you think that this law is just a mask where in a corrupt country like Croatia, employers, questionable agencies only hire third-country workers in a way that here they will take 10 or 20 Indians, Chinese, arrange with some university fictitious study and these same workers then practically 3 years of employment in any job in Croatia? So the first year of study, he doesn't need to be in any class, he doesn't need to get any signatures in the index, he has the right to repeat it twice a year, so for 3 years, the employer will be able to hold that employee as a slave because he's holding him in his hands because he pays for his studies and will return him to his country if he rebels. So you're making these foreign workers a slave who's been working here for three years for the Church. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183496	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183497	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, I don't agree with you, we're not that big a power to import so many workers from third countries, there aren't any agencies here, there's only a student centre and a student service here. It's been trying to come up with this privatisation that private agencies are running student affairs, so far it defends itself, and I hope that it will continue to defend itself but for the sake of the system and for the sake of the original law when you pass it and for the system of that one ECTS point and all the other borders we have put in, it can't happen that it'll be so cheap for us to put someone in, hold him in college for a year to take advantage of him as some kind of workforce. I don't think it's possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183498	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183499	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so here's what needs to be said in a broader and narrow context of this law. In a broader context, we heard everything about this issue as the debate went on, and I would refer to two things there. First of all, I would not put into direct context the connection and interest in study and student work. Thus, if someone works or is forced to work or wants to work or has to work, regardless of which category he was, it does not mean that his study will last longer or that his study will be more unsuccessful. I think it's individual and that I wouldn't generalize it to that extent as we had the opportunity to hear it. And it should also be said in any case that this law adopts although the amendments are very small, so we refer to 2018 and now, these changes bring a more regulated system and we cannot say that there are any arguments that this law brings something up. On the contrary. The system can only be more orderly and it will be more orderly after this law has been passed, and in my opinion, this law should have been passed before and as I said, I don't think there's anything controversial about this law. Moreover, I think he will only help the equality and better status of students in two categories. In the labour market category, therefore, students on the labour market and in the category of students in education systems and on the labour market. Clearly, students should have the same rights and it is not at all questionable or should be questioned. What I think needs to be pointed out here, which is what I think already mentioned in previous some discussions, is what some laws are related to this law or are dealing with the same problem, and they are talking about financial aspects. Let's say the Tax Law, etc., that in the next steps may need to be further revised and that's where I see the only space in the context of this law. When students of Croatian universities go abroad as part of an international exchange, we expect them to be treated in a Colloquitically identical manner to any other student who comes to Croatia as part of the international exchange and that is about what I see the contribution to. And also, under number two, there is a great need for what is said to be a skilled workforce, and this also warrants the need to include as many highly educated employees as possible during the study. I don't really see any need to be dramatic about this law, some students have to work, some have a privilege so they don't have to work, but I think it's less in our society, and if we look at it in a broader social context, then we should say that the current situation of students on the labour market, and thanks to the 2018 amendments to the law and what we're discussing today is far more orderly and better than what it was like when I was studying or some generations older than me. Therefore, the space for abuse has always been and whoever wants to abuse the system will always find space to abuse that system, but we need to make a legal framework such that this space is reduced to a minimum. And I think this proposal is going that way. That is why I would certainly support the amendments to this law and it is justified to worry, but it is not correct to bring the departure of young people from Croatia into context with this law. It really has nothing to do with it, and absolutely even though we heard it today in the debate it is justified that we worry, but it is not justified to make false statements. Also, what we heard today in the debate is not correct to create some kind of drama about this law because there is really no objective saying there is no reason for drama, and there is no argument whatsoever. So this law doesn't open up any space for any outside of serial criticism in my opinion. It opens up a space for reviewing some future needs of amending laws like I said to the IRS, etc., but not for what we've heard. What's the truth? Well the truth is if we're talking about a wider social context, and it's always as good as it's possible to compete, me and many of us have worked through a student service on much worse terms, and now that this law is passed, the situation can only be better. Can the situation be ideal and perfect? Well, it's hard to always be able to please everyone, but we need to tend to a more orderly situation both in the labour market and in the education system, and every step that goes that way, I think we should support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183500	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183501	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's about amending the Law on Student Affairs. I have read the proposal, just looking for only one change, and that is the reason why it is not well recognised who is a student in Croatia. It is not recognised who comes from the EU space, a student who is in an international exchange, so it is one smaller number of students, indeed small who comes to Croatia and who would work somewhere. I think that there is another intention here, and this is because it is not only a condition for students from the EU, EU members, but a wider space, that there is really a possibility, that we have more and more students from other, third countries who will be enrolling some cheap studies to extend student status and work for small money in entrepreneurs, but of course one and the other will pay off. Why? Because in the countries of their origin, the situation is either out of business or desperate for any other reason. But then you should see it and try simply, in that case, if so, then in time means in some way, I won't say to prevent it, but much more precisely define it in terms of their case monitoring, whether they even pass the exams, have solved the first and second semesters, so to see the right reasons for coming because then they simply do unfair competition to our people who are unemployed. Now the question is, since I know a great student population because I'm a university professor, besides being a representative. What exactly is a student's work today? What's November's work? Is that part-time work? Temporal? So let's take a look at how things are in practice. For example, the ideal example is telecom operators. If you look at Google, you're going to go history over the past 10 years, you'll see what's written there, what unions write about it, what students who worked with telecom operators write and what's simple about what's true about it. You see, let's take the case of any telecom operator, whether it's Hrvatski Telekom, A1, Tele2, etc., it even means that there is information that in these companies, there is a similar situation, even if the number of employees, temporary students reach around half the total staff. If that information is correct, and we should be informed about it, then gentlemen, this is not about occasional, temporary employment. What students do, say, at a place in a telecom operator where it's about reporting malfunctions, advertising, some help, assistance, if there's no device, or if you're looking for information about whether your account is misspelled or, etc., etc. You see, this segment of business is the most normal regular, continuous business performed by any telecom operator. It can't be called casual work or temporary. Actually, it's a temporary job. So that's the foundation of the activities of the students. Now, if students in a total number of employees reach even half of the total employees, then we have nothing but the abuse of student work in a way that lay off workers who work indefinitely as a technological surplus or a new systematization, then we hire cheap students whose, you see, Captain is 20 kuna who can't, let's be honest, can't live out of it today. And not only that, so it's not a question of whether you can live around a student, it's unworthy. So we have to protect the students from that kind of work. Therefore, it is quite clear that a number of companies abuse this law, abuse students, so if they do so for years, then or must raise the drastic price of the captains to students, or such simple employers, should in some way be fined. It's nothing but an increase in profits over the back of students. Of course, the student is in that powerless. One-third of the students in the survey that was conducted, said they were financially at risk. They have to work. So they have to work. It is good that as many students are temporarily employed. Every time I've been in America, go to America, say, it's always there for me, from the airport, especially big malls, where when the goods, when you pay for everything, they already pack you up. So where are you going to find a student packing what you bought at our mall? Well, that saves on it, so we could hire a number of students. But this student work must not be exploited, abused because of the fact that they know that they depend on it because they have to pay home, some have to pay a significant part of the tuition, diet, etc., etc. So this law doesn't solve the important problems of student work, so it's simple to tell you, I don't even know why this story is about when it was last year and last year's debate, too, about the Law on Student Work, I've made a few proposals, I've always stood up for it, and I'm up for it, 23.25 kuna as a minimum hour is really a misery for today, not a student can live out of it. And not only that, go away, I took for example telecom operators. So see what these students who study FER, engineering or are foreign languages are doing. Well, they do regular work there, and they're paid 23, 25 kuna. Well, that's not being investigated. He's not investigating. Where is this socially responsible behavior? Where's the work ethic? There's no such thing. And these, especially telecom operators like to boast meanings with various certificates, these, etc., and they had 92 thousand different complaints, therefore, citizens who protested about it. So, to sublime it, I finally conclude. The Croatian state and many institutions are in a complete mess. It's not surprising. So whatever topic we open, we see that more or less everything is a mess. But in this mess they must not suffer certain groups as vulnerable as students because his work is student everything. If it doesn’t work properly, or if you can’t earn it properly, he will stop studying. In that sense, I call on all citizens, I call on especially the student population, everyone who has young people, who has the right to vote, change there, change that practice in the Republic, don't work underpaid, don't let your work get humiliated, you do, the largest number of you do jobs that are regular jobs, and you're half paid for by them. All of this can be changed in the elections, in the next elections, and this situation in the Republic of Croatia, and therefore the status of students can only fix new people, new parties that have never participated in the government, did not mean serving citizens and it is simple what citizens can do, go to elections. A large, significant number of citizens speak, it says, watch out a lot of people write to me, so we can't, we're powerless, etc., so you see they're all occupied, everywhere there are, it's all true. An ordinary citizen gets a feeling, an impression of total helplessness, but dear citizens when the elections are each of us the emperor is in the polling place, the king, because that day our pen solves a lot of things, and so I'm telling you don't sit at home when the elections come, but be active citizens, by going out to the elections you can, everything is in the hands of the citizens, we can change everything, we won't bring any changes to the plate, we have to fight for them, and if you decide and think that you will harm and protest, that you won't go out to the elections, you're actually twice choosing and voting on those who are in power, let's be aware All of it. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183502	We have a replica of the respected representative Damjan Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183503	I'd only like to refer to the presentation of professors. Lovrinovića, I hope you listened carefully to him and believe me what I was already talking about, fictitious studies will take place in the Republic of Croatia, but tomorrow there will be 10 entrepreneurs' companies as we like to say in the Republic of Croatia who will take care of the universities of the type, for example. Balthazar fictitious studies, this same student Chinese, Indian, no matter, they 10-20 will come to the Republic of Croatia fictitiously, and during that time they will work across the student centre for 4,000.00 kn and the worst is so 3.g. Like I said before. Now, one piece of advice for you how to disable it, so make it nice to do that every six months, every six months, if they don't have all the signatures, they can't be extended to the status of a regular student, they can't continue to work through the student center, so you're going to disable these fictitious studies and employment, here's thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183504	Thank you very much, next individual, and so forgive the response of the respected representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183505	Oh, thank you. Well, fellow Vucelic, you know, I don't want to be a mean vice, but let's just say that you've hinted, seen, smelled something like a potential problem, it's really, it can really be a real problem, let's put this provision in, we're not going to define more precisely the monitoring of such students, the success of studying, why, so we don't really need it because we have some, some other plan. So we warn from this place that it's a possible problem, but the ruling one doesn't care, you know, as they never care about this, what we're proposing as an opposition. Too much has been developed in the Republic of Croatia. What's over-real? It is, so work for a certain time, but he in the Republic became defined indefinitely, so you can 10.g. work for a certain time and such young people cannot start a marriage, cannot get credit and will not stay in the Republic of Croatia That's what we're gonna fight. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183506	The next individual debate will be Stjepan Curaj's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183507	I thank the Honorable Vice President, I will shortly after these individual debates try to come to terms with what is the main change here. We first made it possible for extraordinary students to work through student service. We are now spreading that story, where there were three conditions before, we are now putting it that students at a high-school exchange in the Republic of Croatia can do so, where the exchange must be regulated by an agreement between higher universities, so we are talking about exchange, there is not now what we have heard or as students of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, EU citizens, European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation, which have a residence in the Republic of Croatia and are studying at a higher school outside the Republic of Croatia. So here the concept of students extends to citizens of the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation, there is no China if I get it right. Furthermore, this is what is next, the proposed law harmonizes with the regulations of the Republic of Croatia that enable the work of third-country nationals, and now we are here at this part, the Law on Foreigners, and provides equal rights to the higher education of persons by international and temporary protection, so the Law on International and Temporary Protection, and now we have come to this part of the story, and now I do not see what the reason is, just before the debate is known which ways of obtaining student rights and maintaining and retaining them, they apply to all students equally, both domestic and externally, that means that a student who is from the EU, from third countries or from the Republic of Croatia has the same right to use student rights or conditions for the use of student rights. If we want something else, then we need to make it clear and loud, doing the difference between us and them isn't even legally possible because it's a discriminatory difference. So, very clearly and simply spread the possibility of new students coming here with what purpose, we have those socioeconomic reasons where these students will either settle here or they will get a high education chamber or they will take part of the experiences, the contacts they have gained here, of course and knowledge in their home country, and then through which we will be able to connect more easily and economically, in the extreme line if nothing else will have to do with this country as a return tourist, means a series of different possibilities... , not to mention further cooperation on Erasmus projects from any scientific work and anything, thus expanding our network knowledge, our network with people with whom we can achieve further successes and better connect tomorrow. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the point. We've heard here that today, on a thousand students, we have less than two sides, a thousand, so there's not some concern about some workforce and abuse. Of course it should be counted on, but I believe the conditions for maintaining student status or student rights are more or less the same. What I have mentioned and to see how this student work improves, how it becomes more interesting in terms of equality with the market, that what pays these pension 5% to the second pillar is to divide and reduce any commissions and fees that are 12% and 0.5% more compensation and 0.5% for health care to redistribute and to go more into internships first and second pillars and to carry out internships based on student work, not just experience. It's a step further, it's a recognition, if someone worked for five, six years studying and financed it's recognition. Of course, we need to be the goal of finishing our studies as soon as people get knowledge of what they've chosen, but we need to respect the fact that someone can't finance their studies without work, I can't afford parents most often, now we're doing it to... extraordinary students. So in this direction it would go a step further thinking about how to bring it into one level of equality that the labour market recognizes and recognizes, and in the end line, and that work internship that is de facto, and it's not deura. So he exists, an experience there, someone was working, I personally worked through student services for years, occasionally, temporarily however and even some countries west go in step further that they say that after the study he was required to volunteer for acquiring a certain experience to repay debt to society, whatever they say, for at least a year, volunteering. It's like something if you didn't make it look like you weren't exactly like that. So there's this space for different progress, I think this change itself is quite formally very small, almost zero, but it's essential and that all that's been made in the last few years are miles of steps, especially towards the development of higher education, higher education, and that we should continue on this trail. And I'm glad that, in fact, today's debate wasn't even about the essence of this law at all, but about the general things, is that it shows that when the law is good, then there's a debate on the side of what might be good, for the public it might not be a good idea to come up with some extra ideas, absolutely yes. And this I think, as far as I'm concerned, everyone or the vast majority will support it. But there are no concerns about that kind of cheap labour force, imports, abuses because the conditions are for both study and quota are for exchange of students at each university or for foreign students who are enrolled who pay, etc. and who gain rights and what it means to retain those rights, so I think with this we can only have one benefit more on... what I said to the reasons at the beginning. So once again, I say that we will support this, I would like the ministry to think a little bit about redistributing these costs to student service fees and work, and the recognition of this work in employment and pension, as well as the fees paid for all the work done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183508	Thank you. The replica of your presentation has a respected representative, Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183509	Thank you very much. Comrade Curaj, you said that some countries also have experience that people, after they graduate from college, volunteer for a while to pay off debt to society. I'm curious about how you view it, for example. to the government's decision of 1.1 in the Tax Reform that people studying cannot, for example, benefit from a tax charge of 100% not paying for contributions because it applies only to those up to 25 years, so that in a period of time when people study, and that, unlike them, those who do not study and start working at 18 can immediately start to enjoy the fruits of tax discharge? Do you think it acts encouragingly on people to study or act encouragingly to leave before work is it going to have more material benefits than that and go early and have conditions for retirement?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183510	Dear Representative Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183511	Yes, thank you. That's what we've been having this debate about, so it seems to me that it's encouraging to enter the labour market on the one that's the most profitable part, and these are the masters, they're the professional workers that are really missing. I think it went in that direction that primarily focused on them. What you say is theoretically one up to 25 years has the right to 100% income tax exemption from 25 to 30 percent, if someone studies de facto they won't be able to use those reliefs that many years, but on the labour market they'll still be competitive is not even the other power that ended that college. So we're talking about graduate economists or doctors then there won't be inequality on the market, or they'll all be more or less able to use it, and they'll be at the same level, compared to those experts who've graduated from professional high schools that we want to stay and that we don't want them to leave, and that's where we're most actually leaving, and I think that's where we actually asked for this niche with those reforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183512	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative Marko Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183513	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the respected representatives of the ministry. Today we've been discussing everything and everything, this law is basically simple and rests on a few basiss. The first foundation comes from being science, which is that science tends towards internationalization, that science belongs to everyone, that in Husserl's sense science is what is true for everyone and everyone. We can't use argumentation from some spectrum as if we're preparing laws and students to participate in the Amish community tomorrow, I don't want to discriminate against the Amish community, but whoever decides to live in the 19th century then has that possibility. There are communities, there is a way of life in which we can demonstrate and develop practice according to our concept of the world. But today's world is a world of science, a world of knowledge, a world of mobility. I believe that the incentive to pass this law is to define precisely who the student is and what rights stem from that student status that she came from the university community. Because the university community is being increasingly internationalised, as our students go to foreign universities and foreign students come to Croatia it is necessary to enable equality and one internationalisation of student jobs, so to speak. This law allows something like this, and this law must not be burdened with interpretations from our own national optics in which each of us has its vision of the pension system, labour legislation, and somehow manages to get into the chalk, and students manage to get involved. This is primarily a law involving students and students' work, but since it comes from the Ministry of Science, I expect the Ministry of Science to apply a heuristic method, based on this current debate, but also on an area which public policies want to define, which is science and knowledge, which means that one innovative induction will understand and establish cooperation with other resolutions, and that this law will be only an incentive to solve the problem of student work comprehensively and everything that comes out of this work. This law is not a law that will hermetize students and student work, but after this current debate, the need for dialogue and new legal solutions will also follow, in order for this student work to be relevant to science, which is that it is a constant development, in the development of knowledge and humanity and in the field of legal solutions. We don't create a new Amish community, we don't create new slaves, we don't create those who will be suppressed in Croatian society but those who will know how to distinguish student work and tomorrow when they no longer have the right of students, they will, on the basis of experience and differentiation between student work and work relations, be more quality, more encouraging, more motivated employees. For what? Because they know. And why do they know? Because it's a good difference. And I think that would be an incentive for us parliamentarians to sometimes introduce into our discussions a conjunctival differentiation, to know what something is about. This law applies to students, students are now defined and student work is now defined. And this law can only be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183514	Thank you. We have one replica of Honorably represented Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183515	You said that you hoped that the debate on this law would solve the problem of student work comprehensively and I hope so, but I hope that this law will be an incentive for a systematic solution to the complete problem of work and all contracts. So on the trail of what we talked about today, not only students, but all students also have a need to work and have to work, but I still think that this current system is in which, which is regulated in this way how it's regulated that students are deeply damaged in their work compared to others. And I hope that this debate will be an incentive to address this precisely through the cooperation of more resources, not just the Ministry of Science, primarily the Ministry of Labour, and that we will be able to expect to solve these problems soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183516	Dear Representative Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183517	Thank you. That's exactly the differentiation I was talking about, which is that we can't expect the Ministry of Science or expect it to make a militant expansion and imagine that the representatives of the Ministry of Labour and the pension system are sitting here right now. No, here in front of us are representatives, representatives of the Ministry of Science and within their resources solve and define this problem they have faced. It is now at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions' system to achieve co-operation with the Ministry of Science and to address the problem in this comprehensive way. A comprehensive way is always the way of dialogue and observation of a problem from several perspectives, not to achieve an illegal expansion in this case by the Ministry of Science, which will prescribe in the way they are waiting for other ministries to do so. The Ministry of Science has done what needs to be done, now let the other ministries be involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183518	And now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected secretary of state at the Ministry of Science and Education, Branko Ramljak, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183519	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, you may have also noticed that I have listened very carefully to all these four hours of debate, on one really small amendment to the Law on the conduct of student affairs. I will remind all of you that in November 2018 we passed the Law on the conduct of student affairs, until then there was no law but used the 1996 rule. This law adopted in November 2018 introduces order, of course, that we are never sure what will happen in application. Well, here we are, and now we've seen certain things happen that they send us all a message and I understand it all today, that we need a further revision of this law. However, the reason why we went to this change, the urgent amendment of this Law on the performance of student affairs lies here in the last month, two, three since the beginning of this academic year 2019/20 when representatives of individual universities, representatives of universities, representatives of higher schools who express the need to strengthen the internationalisation of each higher school, and enable students who are not part of this law to also be able to carry out student jobs. Will only this one good sign of our universities tomorrow attract a larger number of foreign students we will only see, today we in the Republic of Croatia therefore according to the latest data for academic 2018/2019. We have 163,000 students, of these students 40,000 are exceptional students, and now for 2019 as the first year of use and the application of this law we have the first data, so today we have talked about how many of these extraordinary students have used this institute of student work, this institute has used a total of 65, pardon 27% of the total mass of extracurricular students, so of 40 225 students, this institute has used 11 026 exceptional students, of regular students, therefore this institute of students benefits from our data that all students have entered into that register where we have a student diet, and to this right they have all with x's at this level or that level, 65% of regular students benefit from the possibility of being involved in the performance of student jobs, these are the information that relates to the first year of use or application of this law, and that we have a large number of our students, which are also important to us from the same number of the same age, because of our students are not in the same age, because we have a significant number of these students, because of people from the most of the most of these students, because of the most of the students, because of the most of the most of the students, the students, the students are the most of the most of the most of the most of the students of the EUs, In that sense, apart from the school's interest that something to start with, to show a good will that we want more foreign students, we have now given this possibility, of course, that, I repeat, does not mean that this will immediately attract more students, but we will be thinking about other elements or other rights that we will be able to offer them in the future, this is what they are now looking for as students from third countries because they did not have that option. On the other hand, it is very important to stress that in the preparation of these amendments to the law another element has appeared as very important, and therefore we mentioned this internationalisation and the internationalisation project. The internationalisation project refers to a total of 50 million kunas, 30 projects were received in the Republic of Croatia on this basis, so it is an ISF project aimed at improving exactly the whole, improving the possibility that our higher education, of course not only with the number of students but also with quality study programmes, is approaching the developed world, to become attractive as a country in which the product is delivered in a very quality way, this product is a quality student, ultimately competent to be able to go to the labour market. Taking care of how many students can work, so we have to make sure that the Foreigners Act is a key law that defines who's actually a stranger, which is a stranger, which is his real and obligation, so we have to worry that someone will abuse that institute and work as a foreigner from a third country unlimitedly, does not stand because the Foreigner Act defines how much he can work. People under subsidiary protection who can also appear there, means asylum seekers, refugees, etc., someone said what they have social benefits, and now they will also work, and in that case they will be taken care of, so they cannot work indefinitely, unlimitedly. On the other hand, there was also a question of people who have family pensions, the esteemed representative Žagar also, meaning as far as the part is concerned, it is in the Ministry of Health's management, meaning the Pension Insurance Act, but according to our knowledge students who are enrolled in the status of a regular student even though they have a family pension they can do and do student jobs, if they are in the status of an extraordinary student even then they can't. But that, I repeat, is within the jurisdiction of the second law. I would also like to point out that the whole process that we've been conducting has, of course, shown the need for, for example, some other issues that are also raised here today, as a matter of the rest institute, whether a student in the field can do student affairs, that part is not regulated by this law, but as a ministry, we have sent a clear guidance on what this rest is about obviously on the ground any things that were not in accordance with the law because the law is clear in this. However, we have actually opened a dialogue and could say triage. So in, related to the institute of rest which is very important for students. If this conversation includes representatives of the student clinic, representatives of public health, student organisations, ministries, colleges, to find a way to make it possible for individual categories of students and in the situation when it comes to rest, work is made possible. But that's just something we'll talk about. Also, today has been said several times why we went so urgently into this law and why, as I don't think, we have implemented the whole procedure, but we believe that for such a small change, and here in this case it is really a small change that needs to be done very quickly. But in the next period, so I'm sure you'll need to open the law. The law will need to be opened, in this law, all these questions will surely appear in the law. But I guarantee you that within this year of the law being applied, the order has been introduced, obligations, intermediaries, students, employers are known. If any of you or anyone else outside this assembly has any kind of tip-off, I'm asking you to tip it off, if there are abuses of any kind. It's in our interest that it doesn't happen, that students are in the interest that it doesn't happen. So it would be very important if you had any kind of tip to tell us if someone wasn't acting in accordance with this law. It's also the institute that hasn't been regulated so far that's a minimum captainate, a minimum captainate. That minimum watch when we started with this law was 21 kuna, today 25 we heard, 25.39 kuna. For your information, so it's a minimum captainship, we have data from the field that say on average in Rijeka a minimal, average Captain 35 kuna, in Dubrovnik 32 kuna, so there may not be a tendency to abuse or exploit the work of students. Clearly, we also respected the requirements that came from the employers' association in the sense that such students are also allowed to work. I as a university professor, but also now as state secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education in charge of higher education in continuous communication with students, students want this work. So I get such an impression that they want this work, and that it can always be pre-absolutely standing on it. Because the law is every issue of implementation, so when we get into this situation there is no reason to try and change certain things, but in that case it really needs intersectoral co-operation and it will not be enough for the committee to sit just representatives of social partners, representatives of students, but will also be representatives of the Ministry of Labour but also the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Demography, youth and social and policy and the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. Anyway, here's what I expect, and this little change that we're going to be able to achieve is actually going to lead to internationalisation being stepped up at our high schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183520	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183521	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you have now given us the final address and this statistical data, how many students benefit from regular and extraordinary and that in fact 2,000 of these international ones would be covered by this law and I agree with you on this question that if and 1 for me, that's enough, but do you possibly have an estimate of expectations as much as you would. Of those 2,000 international could use this information if you might have, that's one thing. When I speak, I also mentioned these abuses of student contracts, I wonder if you in the ministry have any information that you have abuse? Do you have any example that this happened, and if you have how many, how many are in percentage? If you can tell. And as for the fact that the students want this work, here I can tell you from my experience myself when I was a student I also wanted that form of work and I used it, and today when I'm a little older I think I'd rather today that I've had three years of employment more than I'm going to have it eventually how much I've used this opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183522	Dear Secretary of State. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183524	Thank you very much for asking, Your Honor. So, as far as the assessment is concerned, if you believe these figures, and the figures are exact as far as the extraordinary students they use, it's practically 1/4 of extraordinary students to expect at least 25 to 30% of these third-country students to use. So 2,200 is total, but only 760 are from third countries, and the rest is from EU countries. On the other hand, it was a question of abuse, that we have application and according to the law is done, so what the ministry has to do under the law is to oversee the legality of this, of all the acts that are here, and the part relating to the State Inspectorate is abuse if it appears in the processes in which the employer participates, while we in that section relating to the student centres. At the end of March this year means the first time we're going to age, just to answer if I can, so we're going to get the first report for the first year of application of this law from the student centers, and then I'm sure we're going to have a lot of this data that we don't have right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183525	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183526	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, a lot of what you said in your final presentation, states, perhaps we are not content with the answer itself, but let's see how the law will be implemented in November, so on the way, it is kind of changing and correcting the injustices. But the one thing that definitely doesn't stand is your thesis that it was a small change, so you decided on an emergency procedure. So I will only repeat once again, the Law on the Assessment of the Impact of Regulations, the Law on the Right to Access to Information, states that counselling can only take a shorter time when extraordinary working conditions have taken place for which it is not possible to carry out consultation longer. So you didn't have a reasonable reason to conduct counselling for just seven days, don't do it anymore, you shouldn't have done it the same way as to put the law into effect the day after the adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183527	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183528	So, I said at the beginning that are the reasons for the adoption, so this is just one article that changes student status, pardon student definition and these are reasons for internationalisation as a project, our universities will have a problem in proving and implementing the indicators they have set up and their actual request, their request is that these students also get involved, which have not been included so far, which will in some way be able to attract students to universities and on the other hand, we also had a request from the Croatian Association of Employers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183529	The next is a replica of the respected representative Mark Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183530	Thank you. In your presentation you said one key thing and that is if there are some elements of knowing that it is a violation of another law, that all those who have these knowledge are obliged to inform relevant institutions. That's another confirmation, and that's a confirmation, the difference between knowledge and story. Knowledge binds but stories deceive. When we tell stories and talk on a story level something to know about breaking the law and we haven't done anything about it, then we become the prisoners of that story ourselves. We present ourselves in public as those who are at the level of the butler, the offender of the law. If we have knowledge that there is a violation of the law, then we need to process and refer to the right address, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183531	We have another replica of Tomislav Zhagar's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183532	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. Namely, if we look at the data again from 2017, 2018 available from the total number of students, 159 638, 116 031 are regular students. Today the question is what extraordinary students mean, they are no longer the category of students who study with work through history. So these are students who are pushed into an extraordinary form of study for various reasons, and that's why it's the last change for them to be able to work very well because they have to pay for their studies, because the ministry should think about it because there's a trend that more and more people are pushing towards extraordinary study, which I say is no longer what was historically and many universities, of course respecting university autonomy, many universities somehow have an impression, do everything to push students from the regular program towards extraordinary ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183533	Thank you. That would conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183534	Final draft law amending the Law on the conduct of student affairs, emergency procedures, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 823. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 87 for, 6 abstentions and 20 against the passed Law amending the Law on the conduct of student affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183535	We move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the patent law, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 679 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Your Honor, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Education, Branka Ramljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183536	Thank you very much... The final proposal of the patent law is before you. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] This law intends to improve the system of protection of inventions in the Republic of Croatia in the context of the implementation of the strategy for fostering innovation of the Republic of Croatia in the period 2014-2020 and the overall improvement of the national innovation system. The proposal for a patent law in October 2019 was discussed by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Information, Information and Media and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament and, at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament held on 18 October 2019, a conclusion was reached on the adoption of the bill. Since discussions in the Croatian Parliament have not highlighted the content of the law but only certain nomotechnical remarks, the final proposal for the law differs from the bill only in a nomotechnical sense. Most of the pointed nomotechnical remarks were accepted and included in the final proposal for the law while the remaining were explained why they could not be accepted. As regards the issues to be addressed by the Final Proposal of the patent law as the most significant, the full revision of the existing Institute of Consensual patent is highlighted. Instead of the current protection of inventions, a consensual patent introduces protection of invention using a useful model through a simpler and shorter registration process. The proposed law regulates separate procedures for the recognition of patents and the registration of a useful model and will be guided by a specific application which will be published as registered law after the completion of the formal examination. The proposed revision of the institute will also improve legal certainty in the implementation of patent applications, patent rights. The final draft law also improves the patent recognition process in such a way that the applicant of the patent application will be informed at an early stage of the procedure whether the notified invention meets the prescribed conditions for the recognition of the patent. The final proposal for a law also proposes an arrangement allowing for the basis of the Agreement on the Cooperation of the State Intellectual Property Institute with the European Patent Office to pre-examination the state of the technique and give written opinions on the patentity of the notified national invention, where appropriate, to be carried out by the European Patent Office, which has the most developed professional capacities in these areas, thus ensuring a high level of quality of recognised national patents. With a view to greater clarity of the law, the introduction of definitions of more important concepts is also proposed, the final proposal is also in line with the provisions for the Republic of Croatia by binding international contracts, and the corresponding acquis of the EU. Since the proposed law only improves certain aspects of the existing arrangement of the patent protection system and introduces no additional competences of the State Intellectual Property Institute or of other state bodies in the procedures for the recognition or registration of their maintenance and cancellation rights, nor does any additional financial or other obligations be imposed on law holders, the implementation of this law will not require additional funding from the state budget. On this final draft of the law, we have also received 2 amendments from the Office for, for, for legislation and this way we accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183537	Thank you very much, we have one replica of the respected representative Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183538	Thank you very much, Vice President. State Secretary, in your presentation, you said that the aim and this law is to quote the improvement of the national innovation system, which is a valuable goal since 2008 when the Republic of Croatia has registered 400 patents in 10 years. 2018. dropped to just 136, so this shows how much more important it is in the Republic of Croatia the system of innovation somewhere at the start of European averages and it's not good, but the question is how much will this law do, some other laws are there much more important, especially the announced Law on Science that should significantly more value the integration of patents and cooperation with the economy, but how things stand out of this law will be nothing, which is why I reported and took advantage of your opportunity in the Parliament since this law should allow an increase in patents in the Republic of Croatia, can you let us know what is actually happening with the Science Act?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183539	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183540	Thank you very much, I'd like to apologize first, I said Legislative Office, no, the Legislative Committee has given amendments. As far as the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education is concerned, it is at a high stage of completeness and is currently in the legal service where it is being reviewed and I know that there will soon be another committee meeting, and after that it is ready for further procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183541	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I'm opening a debate and the first one will be, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183542	Thank you very much, Vice-President HS, the distinguished secretary of state with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, is present today the proposal of the Law on patents, inventions and patents, although they are often considered synonym, they are not, the inventions are namely joined new and famous technologies for the purpose of obtaining a new process or product that has never been seen before. So, you could say that exactly is the invention that defines improving life. But in order for the innovator to benefit from its invention and protect it, it must seek protection of inventions or patent recognition. The protection of invention can be carried out if it meets several conditions, it must be new, never seen, unobserved and beneficial. Competition on the international market consists of companies from around the world. Each individual organisation, whether a multinational company that has almost unlimited resources, whether small or medium transnational, is struggling to maintain and improve its own market position, so the methods and techniques of attracting the attention of potential customers are more innovative, and competition funds are often extremely bold and aggressive. It is evident that the achievement of prosperity in the global market depends directly on the ability of the organisation to create new values through innovation and, consequently, on the protection of these innovations in order to ensure exclusiveness over the use of the results of the innovation process. National patent protection systems as well as high level protection systems for other intellectual property rights are mutually consistent with international contracts and multilateral protection systems, and in the EU, the common acquis. The legal aspect of the patent system which is not harmonised at EU international level can be established in accordance with the national needs set out. This proposal of the patent law proposes revising national invention protection procedures carried out by the State Intellectual Property Institute in a way that creates a more efficient, transparent system than the current one. The aim of this law is to improve the system of protection of inventions resulting from the implementation of the strategy and the promotion of innovation for the period 2014 to 2020, in the current law, the causes of insufficient efficiency, and the uncertainty resulting from the existing arrangement of the dual system of protection of inventions in the Republic of Croatia, patent and consensual patent. The existing name of a consensual patent is misleadingly referred to users of the patent system in the Republic of Croatia by the fact that the patent implies that it is the right under examination, so a new usage model is proposed. The name usable model is more appropriate since this name is used most often in a patent system that regulates this type of invention. Prescribe restrictions on the subject of protection by using a model in such a way as to exclude, in addition to the generally accepted exceptions relating to the subject of patent protection protection, inventions relating to the following: inventions from the field of biotechnology, inventions of chemical or pharmaceutical things, and inventions whose commercial exploitation would be contrary to public order or morals. This law provides for the separation of the patent recognition procedure from the application model registration procedure in such a way that the registration process of the applicable model is guided by a specific application which will be published as registered law as soon as possible after the formal procedure has been completed. In relation to the existing legal solution where the demand for the state of the technique is carried out simultaneously by examining the patentity of the invention of protection which is required only after the application has been published in the official report and after the re-examination of that application has been requested. The new law proposes to introduce a preliminary research into the situation of the nearest invention technique and to give a preliminary opinion on the patentability of the reported invention by the European Patent Office. The European Patent Office, which has professional capacities, is why appropriate adjustment of the law is required. This law will make the law simpler and clearer. This law proposes an arrangement which allows the State Intellectual Property Institute to base the Cooperation Agreement with the European Patent Office prior search of the state of the art and to give written opinions on the application of national inventions, where appropriate, by the European Patent Office, which has more underdeveloped professional capacities in these areas, thereby ensuring a high level of quality of recognised national patents and high-tech areas. This law improves certain aspects of the existing system of patent protection. Amendments are expected to increase the effectiveness of national invention protection procedures, to ensure the quality of the implementation of national patent protection procedures. The solutions proposed by the final draft of the law do not differ significantly from the solutions set out in the draft law. The differences relate primarily to the fact of entry into force of Regulation (EU) 2019/933 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 amending Regulation (EC) No This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Furthermore, the difference on certain provisions has arisen from the adoption of major objections made by the Legislative Committee at its 106th session, which relate to the expression of certain provisions and are, in accordance with the final proposal for a law, no-technically developed. The final draft law amends or improves certain provisions which further contributes to the clarity of the rules and transparency of the implementation of the procedures. Thus, the provision of Article 157 of the final proposal for a law is complemented by a provision that stipulates that the consensual patents found in the register of consensual patents are now subject to the current patent law, since this law has introduced, instead of that type of right, a completely new institute of the applicable model. The provisions of Article 158(2) of the final proposal of the Law also propose the introduction of a three-month limit date from the date of entry into force of this Act, in which the applicant of the patent application provided for by the applicable patent law provides for the possibility to convert the patent application into the application of the applicable model provided for in Article 73 of this Act, provided that the application is not published within that time limit. Further changes in the text of the final draft law relate to new regulations governing the system of state administration, increasing the efficiency of the patent protection process and increasing legal certainty in the implementation of the patent, improving the business environment for investment in innovation and having a more favourable direct impact on the economy. This law will help strengthen the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises by ensuring conditions for the effective use of the patent system by the domestic economy, which will increase their competitiveness in the EU common market and external markets. Also, implementation of this law does not require additional financial resources in the EU budget. Due to all the favourable effects that will produce the adoption of this law, the HDZ Representatives Club will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183543	Thank you. The next club is an HNS representative, and as far as I understand it, it's only going to be a respected representative, Macar, yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183544	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today discussing the final proposal of the patent law, otherwise when it was in the first reading there have been several remarks, but in general we all supported the need to pass one of these laws. It's supported for exactly the reason why we're aware of all the importance of the invention, and we also need its protection. There are few people who face this situation in practice, although the number of inventors and inventions in our country is quite large, but they are rarely protected. And was that a problem with this law so far, is there many other situations that contribute to that? I'm sure there is. However, as the problems in practice have been identified, this is why this law was also set out, or in the first proposal, which was almost slightly amended until this second reading. It has been stated why it is crossing this new law that lacks understanding of the difference between the legal concepts of patents and the consensual patent by different stakeholders. As well as the fact that the existing arrangements for the protection of the invention process are not sufficiently effective in terms of the time duration of the procedure from the application for protection of inventions to the recognition of patents. Thus, that time lasted an extremely long time because of various obligations, checks, and ways that were prescribed. It is therefore proposed by this law to replace the current concept of simplified protection of invention with a consensual patent with a revised concept. So in the protection process, we have where proposed to get the applicant's assessment of the patentability of the invention as soon as possible to carry out a preliminary search of the condition of the technique closest to the invention considered and to give a preliminary written opinion. The aim of the adoption of this law is, in fact, to improve the existing legal arrangement by establishing a more effective process for the protection of inventions in procedures carried out at national level and by establishing a more transparent system of patent rights, whereby the proposed amendments are not affected by binding provisions resulting from international agreements, nor by provisions of the legal property of the EU implemented in the current patent law. Let me just point out for a little while what we have here, which is changing this bill. Therefore, the existing legal arrangement of patent protection is improved by establishing a more transparent system, ensuring conditions for more effective risk management by patent applicants. So after that, we also have to consolidate the multiple changes so far and supplement the law so that it can be made clear and reviewed in a way that is accessible and that everything can be read exactly as is prescribed for the protection of patents. The concept and name of the existing Institute of Consensual Patent shall be changed instead of introducing the Institute of Usable Model. Separate procedures for the recognition of patents and registration of a useful model shall be prescribed. And what is very important is to shorten the deadline for submitting applications for conducting a full study of the useful model. The HNS Club also supported the adoption of this law in its first reading, and we will also support this final proposal of the patent law with these minor changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183545	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, a respected representative, Zeljko Jovanovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183546	Here's a little bit. The SDP representative club will support this law because we see that the solutions proposed contribute to the improvement of existing legal arrangements, ensure a more transparent system of patent rights, speed up procedures and the recognition of patent rights through greater clarity and application in practice. This is all important because Croatia is unfortunately at the bottom of the scale by the number of patents reported. That number falls from year to year. According to data from the State Statistics Institute, 136 patents were reported last year, and in 2014 there were 200, while in 2008 there were even 400 more. Last year, most patents in the engineering sector were reported 32%, chemistry 24%, 9.6% of the measurement. Of the total number of patent applicants in 2018 is 121, 15 are foreigners. The largest number of domestic patents reported individuals to be 84%, legal persons 15%. While foreign applicants have a relationship between natural persons 60 to 40%, it means that foreign companies report more patents than domestic companies and scientific institutions do. It's a similar situation with recognized patents. She's defeating. So this picture best shows the chart from 2008 to 2018 where the number of patents we lost 75% of recognized patents. 268 - 2009, 71 - 2018. So anything that is proposed to increase the number of patents in Croatia will come well, and hopefully, in one part, the proposed law will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183547	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was to be a respected representative of Maras. He's gone. He loses his right to speak, so the next one will be a respected representative of Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183548	Thank you very much, Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with your associates, so here's a very short one. I also praised this law in my first reading, and today I join it. So I repeat the story since it hasn't changed much, or nomotechnically. I believe that after the first law has been passed and all the changes he has made so far, I welcome the full adoption of a brand-new, completely new law. I think that this law, with its solutions, well resolves the administrative barriers that we had under the existing law, or significantly accelerates the patent protection process in Croatia, reduces these options of complaints that have so far had, under the current law, great possibilities of obstruction when anyone could complain about any attempt to protect patents of intellectual property. I think it's good that we discuss these things more often, even though this isn't some attractive subject at first sight, like the previous one being a point or something. I think that as a young country and a young democracy, this is one of those topics where we're actually still learning and getting on our feet as a country, and basically with us, it's an offended opinion amongst citizens that they don't accept this very intellectual property, it's something like some kind of fiction or everyone takes the right to use other people's things, some other people's ideas, and there's no sanctions for it. So this law that essentially promotes and narrows down these areas of abuse and manipulation, but the debate on this law and on this subject may raise one level of awareness among our citizens that yet someone who has invented and some intellectual property is still someone's work and effort and that it can't just be taken and that when you steal it is essentially equal to stealing any and tangible, let's say, physical things. On the other hand, this is a living matter that is changing, technology is moving forward and it's developing again, and I said that in the first reading, and I actually expect you to continue to monitor and develop and progress on this issue so that maybe with the changes we follow in the future and what happens in practice. Most of the time, here's all the support of this law, and I'll support it, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183549	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate next, which will be the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183550	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So innovation is important for every society as well as for Croatia. This is an opportunity to remember the genius Nikola Tesla who had 300 patents, so four times more than all of Croatia has registered in the past ten years. Why do I mention Nikola Tesla? I think it's a good opportunity to come from the Assembly to tell the Minister of Culture to send a different response to the town of Rijeka who suggested that during this period when the River of European Capitals of Culture is in front of Nikola Tesla elementary school, Kršinić's monument of Nikola Tesla who unfortunately chats in the dark, and no one sees it, and we think it's a great message that can be sent from Rijeka all over the world, but also to all our students that Nikola Tesla is their permanent inspiration. Since the Ministry of Culture responded negatively, stressing that the town of Gospić v. today we could hear and see that the town of Gospić has no objection that, temporarily during the course of this year, Nikola Tesla's European Capital of Culture, his monument will be in front of Nikola Tesla Elementary School and thus advance a very important project of the European Capital of Culture. So I call here from the Parliament of Ministers since the funds are provided for both transport and for the setting of sculptures in Rijeka to respond positively to the request of the city of Rijeka and to change the last response it recently sent which is obviously not true since the town of Gospić has no objection to the sculpture of Nikola Tesla, a great innovator who had 300 patents being in the city of Rijeka.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183551	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183552	Final proposal of the patent law, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 679, the motioner is the Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, during the debate of the proposing representative, and thus became an integral part of the final draft of the law. I am now voting on the final proposal of the patent law, please vote. I find that most of the votes 111 for, passed patent law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183553	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 822 The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. Does the proposing representative, secretary of state at the Ministry of Labour and the pension system Majda Buric want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183554	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. Therefore, as already stated before us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications. Namely, this law was passed in the Croatian Parliament at a session held on 10 July 2015 and was published in NN 82/15. The law has been adopted in order to comply with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council since 20 November 2013 and amending the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. The Law amending and supplementing that law was recently adopted in the Croatian Parliament and was recently adopted at the meeting held on 20 July 2019 and published in the NN 70/19, and amendments and additions to that law were adopted in order to fully comply with the Professional Qualifications Recognition Directive. First of all, I would like to explain at all what the concept of a regulated profession means. Namely, the concept of regulated professions itself implies that the conditions for working in a profession are prescribed by a certain law, and the exercise of a regulated profession implies that a person owns professional qualifications acquired after education, it may be a certain licence, professional examination and so on. Therefore, professional qualification is not an educational qualification it comes after an educational qualification. For example. persons who have completed a study of rights cannot immediately work as lawyers but must first obtain a certain working experience and pass a judicial exam. And in that sense, a lawyer is a regulated profession while a lawyer is an educational qualification. The Ministry of Health also regulated the professor’s profession of pharmacies or pharmacists under the Law on Pharmacy, and the Croatian Pharmacy Chamber granted him approval for independent work, of course if he met the conditions prescribed by law. . /. A list of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia has been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and contains 182 professions. What changes these changes and additions? The proposal for a law is transposed into the Croatian legislation Directive 2018/958 of the European Parliament and of the Council since 28 June 2018 on the proportionality study before the adoption of new rules governing the profession and the deadline for harmonisation with the Directive is 30 July 2020. The Directive requires Member States to carry out an ex ante assessment of proportionality in order to prevent the introduction of unjustified restrictive working conditions in a particular profession. In order to develop the single EU market in the field of services, it is necessary to remove any conditions restricting access to or enforcement of the regulated profession if they are not justified by the protection of public interest and are not suitable for the achievement of the desired objective. According to this proposal, the competent authorities, which are ministries or chambers, are obliged to carry out an assessment of proportionality when establishing new or changing existing conditions restricting access to or carrying out a regulated profession. The assessment of proportionality must be carried out objectively and independently for any condition restricting access to or enforcement of the regulated profession, and a declaration thereof shall be drawn up. I'm going to repeat this one more time to the departments or chambers, and the Ministry of Labour and the pension system is a national coordinating body. This proposal prohibits any restriction on access to a regulated profession which rests on discrimination on grounds of nationality or residence, and restrictions on access to the exercise of regulated professions can only be justified by the protection of public interest. In this context, I must mention that the bill provides for an exception to which, when assessing the proportionality of the conditions for access to a health profession, it must take into account the provision of a very high level of protection of human health and that is imperative. The assessment of proportionality shall be carried out on the basis of general and additional criteria which include already existing restrictions, the nature of the risks to consumers and experts, consumer protection or end-user protection and other criteria which allow for the assessment of proportionality. Therefore, the competent authority of the ministry or chamber in which the profession is part will be obliged in determining the conditions for working in the profession will carry out a prior test or test of proportionality, taking into account that the conditions restricting access to the regulated profession or its exercise are not applied in a discriminatory manner, that they are justified by the protection of public interest and are appropriate for achieving the objective to be achieved. Therefore, the aim of the law is to prevent unjustified restrictions on access to the exercise of regulated professions, and by carrying out a proportionality assessment this law will affect the increased mobility of experts as well as the freedom to provide services. Finally, it should be noted that no additional funding in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia is necessary to implement this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183555	Mr. Djujic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183556	Dear Secretary of State you have now explained to us in your presentation what professions are, what are called, what is used by acquiring after education only with some certain experience. I would like to stress here that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or individuals who are potential members of the Government, have already begun to use certain calls, regardless of the law, even though they have not yet been appointed. I am talking about Mr. Willy Beros candidate for the new health minister, so the man has not yet been appointed, tomorrow he has yet to have a hearing on the Health Committee, perhaps this high house votes on Friday, the man is already giving interviews in all the media today as a minister, talks about the first moves in the ministry, talks about a meeting of European health ministers to be organised in Brussels, and has not yet been appointed. What do we know if the HNS are going to make any remarks on Friday, so maybe they don't vote on it. So either it lowers this tall home just on the voting machine and raises your hand. And I want to point out that the government has already established the practice of calling before appointment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183557	Thank you, even though you'd have to tell me thank you for letting you talk to me all the way... It's not a calling, it's not a profession. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Mr. Jovanovic:
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183558	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, on several occasions you mentioned that this law is, in fact, crucial to assessing proportionality. Since citizens are watching our work, they probably don't understand what that means. So you can briefly explain actually an example of what it means to evaluate proportionality related to regulated professions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183559	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183560	I can respect Mr. Jovanovic. So let's take a professional regulated chef's profession. Today, according to the current rules, the way in which the cook is qualified can be achieved through craftsmanship, that the person has completed three years of schooling, then has 2 years of work experience, then passes the master's exam. How else can someone pass a master's exam for a chef? So he finished any high school education, worked for three years on the cook's business, also passed a master's exam. Now let's take the aproximate that some future law that regulates the chef, which is the Law on craftsmanship prescribes some additional conditions,.... /. ...and these are possible memberships in certain associations, chambers, certain seminars, etc., and then these conditions that are prescribed In some case, a hypo, a hypo, in some pro-proximous future law, would actually assess proportionality, a test of proportionality. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183561	Where are those beautiful times that was known enough to cook is that, for being chefs, those beautiful times when it was well enough to cook for being a chef, right? Let's move on, committees, will he take his word for it? No, I don't. We're going to the clubs, the debate, I'm opening a club debate, Mr. Mladen Karlic in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183562	Thank you, Vice-President HS, respected secretary of state with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU opened the European labour market, but it also opened access to our labour market for European citizens. One of the most important elements of the integration of foreign citizens in a particular country is the possibility of precisely working and employment, and it is important to ensure that they can be employed in accordance with their qualifications, their working experience, their interests, under the same conditions as the citizens of the host country. Recognition of foreign professional classifications is a key link in the process of integration into the world of work on a regulated market. In order to implement Directive 2005 of the European Community on the recognition of professional qualifications in Croatian legislation, this law has been passed and the concept of regulated professions, as already stated, implies that the conditions for working in the profession are laid down by a certain law, and the exercise of a regulated profession implies that a person owns professional qualifications acquired after education, such as work experience, internship, licences, passing a professional examination and possibly other conditions. The Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications was adopted here at the HS in July 2015 and was adopted in order to comply with Directive 2013/55 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 November 2013. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications was adopted here in the Assembly 6 months ago, meaning held on 12 July 2019, and published in the National Journal. Amendments and amendments to the laws have been adopted in order to fully comply with the Directive as the evaluation of the transposition of the Directive into national legislation implemented by the European Commission and has expressed certain concerns about compliance. The law regulates the procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications for the accession and exercise of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of business creation, as well as the conditions for the free provision of services on the basis of foreign professional qualifications, minimum training conditions in the Republic of Croatia for the accession and performance of 7 professions recognised in the automatic recognition system and the general procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications is transposed into the Croatian legislation of Directive 2018/958 of the European Parliament on the examination of proportionality before the adoption of new rules governing professions and the deadline for harmonisation is 30 July 2020. The Directive obliges Member States to carry out an ex ante assessment of proportionality in order to prevent the introduction of unjustified restrictive conditions for work in the profession. The draft law will therefore ensure that the principle of proportionality and regulation of a particular profession is implemented by a specific regulation. According to the principle of proportionality, in each individual case, the body responsible for the regulation of a particular profession is obliged to assess whether the restriction of access to the profession to the objective to be achieved will have an impact on easier access to the labour market in terms of providing services and mobility of experts. The proposal for a law will require competent authorities to assess whether they are necessary and appropriate to achieve the desired objective through a proportionality test when establishing new or changing existing conditions that restrict access to regulated professions. This application of proportionality is expected to prevent unjustified restrictions on the performance of the profession. Also on the basis of the European Commission’s official notice of 24 January 2019. the observations and proposals of the European Commission have been incorporated into the Act amending and supplementing the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications that we have adopted since 12.7.2019, which has subsequently been reasoned with the opinion of the European Commission since November 2019, which states that certain provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications are not fully in line with the Directive. This proposal therefore defines in a more precise way certain concepts such as professional training, training and responsible persons in management and leading positions, and provides for cumulative fulfilment of the conditions in the case of temporary and occasional provision of services. Now, since this is also a directive that we somehow need to bring into line, the HDZ Club will accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183563	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Vesna Pusic in front of the GLAS Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183564	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues are therefore amendments and additions to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications. As you know, we passed this law, so we passed this law in the House six months ago, and the reason why we have it in the debate today because we did not bring it well, or because we have received 3 repairs from the Commission that say that this law is not in good conformity or that it is presented here by the Government is not in line with the European Directives and that is why we are taking this correction exam... even the proposer says in his explanation, although let's say a little bit more gently, the corrections we make about the error, the mistakes made in harmonising the definition of what means professional training and improvement, must be corrected and the definition of the responsible person, therefore, as defined by the responsible person in the management and management positions. The reference was also received to the excessive, or the Government, of course, to the excessive limitation of the conditions when additional documentation can be requested, so that there is a less liberal understanding of it or a broad understanding of when it can be requested, when the competent authorities have the right to request something called additional documentation, so here it must be repaired so that there are fewer additional documents that the competent authorities have the right to seek, and it is prescribed that it is fully and quite concrete recognition of qualifications for dental medicine, qualifications from certain countries, so Italy, Spain, Austria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Romania, which were acquired before this Directive came into force. I don't think there's much more to argue about, we've supported this law before, we'll support it now, but it would be good for the government to learn from it, which is that in harmonisation, and that's what we've often had here, in harmonising legislation, not to try to deviate from what the law is harmonized with for any reason. The place where it is modified are European institutions, be present in European institutions if you think that something, for whatever reason, is not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia or should be more restrictively determined, should be determined and such corrections should be fought, lobbyed and participated in European bodies, and not when harmonisation occurs, attempt to push through or under the harmonisation de facto not to align but then obtain such correctional exams and then you must subsequently correct what in the first version is bad, wrong or not sufficiently done. So there's nothing to support, but maybe there's something to learn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183565	Proposer, State Secretary Majda Buric, Mrs Majda Buric asked for a five-minute word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183566	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, I have a duty just to clarify something. With the service, official remarks from the European Commission on the Law on regulated professions came to the Law adopted by the SDP government in 2015. And that's a fact. In 2019, we fixed it right in July, and we fully implemented that Directive into the Law, and we improved what the official remarks of the European Commission came to, and I repeat once again, it was the 2015 Law that brought your government back then. And as for the current adjustments, there were no warnings, but opinions. More specifically, a reasoned opinion that says further clarification should be given to the syntax of professional training and training as well as responsible persons in management and management positions, which we have further explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183567	Now it's Mrs Sabina's voter's turn, And goddess Macar, I'm sorry, Mrs. Macar. [[Invader: No, no, Goddess Macar]] The lady can now... The goddess at least on behalf of the club of representatives of the CNS. Excuse me one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183568	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, such as the Law on Amendments, seems very complicated, but I think after the reasoning of the State Secretary which it has given us, and I am actually very pleased with the question and its answer, I think that even for many of us it is clearer now what it is, and especially if I am talking about our viewers or our citizens. As far as the current situation is concerned, it may seem ridiculous to some but it was also necessary to explain that we are not talking about what...... Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183569	Please, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183570	I apologize for breaking in like this to talk to my colleagues, but I'm just, I'm also a colleague...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183571	You can go on, you can go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183572	... I felt the need to get involved. Here is the first law that was passed on 10 July 2015 here in the Croatian Parliament, after which the amendment on 12 July 2019, and this proposal that we now have, it is a full harmonisation with the Directive. Therefore, the subject matter governed by this Act is the procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications for the accession and exercise of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of business creation, and for the free provision of services on the basis of foreign professional qualifications, we still have the minimum... conditions of training in the Republic of Croatia for the accession and pursuit of 7 professions recognised by the automatic system and the general procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. The questions to be addressed by this bill are to ensure the implementation of the method of proportionality in the regulation of a particular profession by a special regulation. According to the principle of proportionality in each individual case, the body responsible for the regulation of a particular profession is obliged to assess whether the restriction of access to the profession is appropriate, to the objective to be achieved. In addition, it will be prescribed to the competent authorities that, when establishing new or amending existing conditions restricting access to regulated professions, they are necessary and appropriate to achieve the desired objective through a proportionality test and above all for the purpose of unwarranted restrictions on the performance of the profession. The proportionality test itself is carried out on the basis of general and additional criteria, and it will ensure a balance between the protection of objectives of public interest and also the quality of services with improved access to regulated professions. It is particularly important to highlight this point as regards health professions that have been granted special status, as high levels of human health protection are ensured, and this must certainly be taken into account when assessing the proportionality of health professional conditions. I will also single out what we still consider important, which is that in a more precise way defined terms of professional training and training as well as the responsible person in the management and management positions, and it is prescribed that the conditions in the case of temporary and occasional provision of services under which the competent authority may also request additional documents, but only if there are regional differences relating to regulated professions. It is also prescribed that the competent authority is required to recognise evidence of the professional qualification of dental medicine doctor issued in the Italian Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Federal Republic of Austria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Romania to dental medical doctors who started studying at or before the date set out in the Annex to this Directive. It just proves how detailed everything is and that there would be no more doubt that this law must regulate everything necessary. And what we may have is to isolate, which is that the certificate that is attached to the evidence in the professional qualification should also be confirmed that the person is indeed legally and as the main activity performs dental activity in the same respect. The HNS Club will support this law in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183573	Thank you. And now she's at the work of Mrs Sabina Vosovac, who will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183574	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The SDP representative club will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications. I would just like to commend here even though it should actually be normal for you to, despite the fact that you have so much to say about showing with the European directive as much as you have the grounds for emergency procedure, decided to pass the law in a regular procedure unlike here, let's say a law that represented the Ministry of Education here, where there was no basis for emergency procedure, and it went into it. The fact is that, after entering the European Union, the Republic of Croatia has become a full member and has taken over the obligation but also the obligation to remove any obstacles that exist for any mobility or movement of citizens of the European Union when we speak in Croatia, outside Croatia, for the purpose of special establishment and conditions for the free provision of services on the basis of foreign professional qualifications of minimum conditions prescribed by the Republic of Croatia, and this has not really given us enough headaches at first, because on the one hand we have regulated professions that are actually one special story for ourselves in terms of conditions. On the other hand, when we talk about the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, we always have the issue of third countries which are not always the most comfortable to resolve potential disputes or to remove potential obstacles to some normal functioning and movement of the workforce. It's a lot easier for us here because certain conditions are simply regulated, uniformized. And we as a state remember at one point our curricula and programmes for example for nurses and medical technicians had to literally transfer overnight to five-year curricula for the education of nurses general care and medical technicians general care because it was among other things the same as one of the regulated professions and in this way we actually educated people who after that with what I would say educational qualification.... /. ... can actually compete in EU countries because they are educated by an identical programme. Of course, certain EU countries, especially in this case Germany, had an exceptional interest in us starting it, and now we see the effects of the process at the time, which is not a big deal. If we have entered the EU, of course, that we should open up every opportunity for our citizens to have their happiness, their professional career, their career training in other EU countries, but we must make it possible here on the other hand if not the same conditions, I will not say work, and the working conditions, but the evaluation of this work in order to make this quality workforce possible, especially where we are disabled and maintained. Fortunately, we don't have a problem with dental medicine doctors here, and neither do some other doctors, as I would say, the branch office, specialization so in this case, of course we're all welcome, but we also have to take care of how to start running one strategic human resource management policy. Now I may have expanded the subject a little bit, but actually the topic isn't that wide, but we just have to take care of it. If the regulation of professions is doctors, yes, it means that we as a state and through this must enable every dental medicine doctor, every other doctor to come to the Republic and that no one in any way can think of creating any obstacle for him to do his job, this will also contribute to this through these proportionality tests. It will simply not be possible for one who thinks of certain occupations or qualifications to set certain barriers. We must fight for our space and fight for ourselves, not in a way that sets certain obstacles and barriers for those who want to come, and perhaps in this we are not destitute in the state, we must be open, and we must take care of how to keep what we are deprived of, and to adhere to certain rules here as well as this test of proportionality, which is actually one of the major changes that the European Commission has warned us about. The European Commission suffers from the application of all directives, we, when we have passed the first laws when we enter the EU, have established a whole system, we have worked parallelly on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, which is extremely, extremely important and cannot be seen separately from this thing to ensure the quality and security of stronger mobility that is horizontal, which is vertical that both we and our human potentials can adapt to their needs as quickly as possible, but also then to the needs of the labour market. And not if they have completed a certain four-year education in order to requalify or acquire something else that is more necessary at the moment for them to need an additional four or three years. Simply through HKO through this sort of composing of the Lego cube, I'm going to say so, educated qualifications and through the curriculative reform that she should have actually looked initially we should have achieved this more pass-by and in high schools, that in the first two high schools, for example, they are general, and then children are already kind of verging themselves for with more selectivity where they want to be. In vocational schools you also have the concept as it was imagined through strategy and after it, that you are educated for areas, not for occupations, so that you have two years of basic area, and then very easily over a year you can be sent from one area to another. These are some broader topics, but they're not far from this, and it's all a broad one, and I'm going to dare tell a pretty complicated story. I was in that part of the system, and I have to admit honestly that not even today some things are clear to me, they're very complicated, they're very difficult, and in fact what we need to do with them is to make it as simple as possible for users, and to take care of the interests of our country and the public interest. What just came to me here, yeah, that's where the European Commission followed us when we started with this job, you told the secretary of state well, we went in 2018 to change the law, there were some mistranslated provisions even wrongly translated, then we went with this law in 2018, okay, they now tell us that we still haven't fully applied it. But what's positive in this whole story, okay, they're going to criticize us, they're going to follow us, they see their special interest, it's nothing big and it's not new. What I must say again for your ministry is what you do in time, and even if you fail and if you fail through a certain law as we may not have done in 2018, in that first one, you can fully define what they wanted or conveyed as they wanted, react in time, and it is okay and it is expected, especially from your resor who should actually be flexible and fast and effective when we talk about the field of work, although it is extremely difficult and I do not yet know who would have been born, I will not say the market, so perhaps a little brutally sounds and thinks only of the interest of profit, and I mean in this world of work, on the one hand, the mutual interest and interest of workers, but also the interest of the market, has not yet been born one who could agree or the world of work. What we do only here, so more precisely, define the terms of professional training and improvement, the responsible person in the management positions, office, cumulative meeting of the conditions, office, in case of temporary and occasional provision of services according to which the competent authority can intimidate additional documents only if there are regional differences which are.... /. ...only if there are regional differences relating to regulated professions, good. What colleagues have already said in their reasoning is clear that we are in charge or the competent authority is obliged to recognise evidence for professional qualifications for dental medicine doctors from Italy, Spain, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Austria and Romania who started the study or before the date mentioned in proposal 5. It's all right with me. However, where we can, we can and cannot, in fact, say in Article 5.b: “The conditions restricting access to a regulated profession or its exercise must not directly or indirectly affect discrimination on grounds of nationality or residence.” Conditions restricting access to or enforcement of a regulated profession shall be justified by the protection of public interest. Okay. Now, perhaps I am now professionally deformed and I am now reading: ‘Protection of public interest in paragraph 2 may be objectively justified on the basis of public policy, public security, public health, prevailing reasons of public interest’ and there are now public interests: ‘Protection of financial balance, social security systems, consumer protection, recipients of services, workers, guaranteeing adequate judicial protection, ensuring the justice of trade transactions, combating fraud and avoiding evasion or tax evasion, preserving the effectiveness of fiscal surveillance, transport security, environmental protection, urban environment, animal health, intellectual property, protection of national historical artistic heritage, social policy objectives, cultural policy objectives’. I don't see any education in this whole story. I'm saying, maybe I'm professionally deformed? Maybe it's just translated, transposed from the directive? If it is, here I am asking you to confirm it. I think it's of public interest to us because it's between us and part of our national identity a language that we can't just classify under the culture of education that builds man, and its being, world surveillance and identity. That and more or less everything else is fine. Still, this law will not solve the problem we have in recognising not only professional foreign professional but also foreign educational qualifications in third countries. These are big, big problems for us how it means to establish such a system that not only do we check the credibility of certain acquired qualifications whether high school, whether high school, but also that we really care about respecting a certain standard of quality. I know that you will now tell me that, for this there is a general procedure that is prescribed by the competent authority for each individual yes. But unfortunately, I know that we prescribe these conditions, and we can also look there without passing on the recognition of the educational qualification of the specific verification. However, I think we have a big problem here and we need to look for new more effective ways to put an end to it. Yes, to be open to third countries, but extremely, to take great care of that and to satisfy both our public interest and our health interests, and in education and in some other segments, it means that we as a country below which standards we will not go because we ask that everyone who comes here wants to work to respect our high-ranking standards of public interest. All in all, this law will, of course, be supported. There's nothing to support. I just hope there's nothing left out of sync.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183575	Thank you. Now an individual debate, the only individual debate Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183576	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Secretary of State. The debate on this law will serve me once again to bring about the great injustice and discrimination of part of Croatian citizens, therefore the masters of medical-laboratory diagnostics. Despite the numerous demands of the Chamber of Health Care Professionals of the Medical Laboratory Diagnostics Class, the Faculty, our Assembly Representatives, the Health Committee of the Minister who has been removed has not been able to amend the Health Activity Act and to bring it into line with the real situation in the Republic of Croatia where the masters of medical-laboratory diagnostics are educated in several universities. So, children, Croatian citizens some and with work paying for the study, funding their own studies by obtaining education, achieving a degree in the master's degree in medical-laboratory diagnostics cannot work in Croatia. At the same time, their future interest is in line with the European Qualifications Framework that regulated professions in European Union countries can immediately work across Europe. However, the minister, the former minister, I hope to say so tomorrow at the Health Committee, that the new minister will respect the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and this law speaks specifically of health protection. In Croatia, therefore, health-laboratory activity recognises three levels of education. Health-laboratory technician, first-degree medical-laboratory diagnostics and master medical-laboratory diagnostics. It is also introduced into the register and database of regulated professions in the Republic of Croatia. However, there is no mention of masters of medical-laboratory diagnostics anywhere. Although there is an application of the Bologna Education System, which through the opening of the second cycle of education in medical-laboratory diagnostics extends education to the benefit of Croatian citizens, healthcare-laboratory workers. Therefore, if in Croatia a health-laboratory technician and first-rate medical-laboratory diagnostics is a regulated profession, only someone irresponsible and boasting can usurp the right and prevent citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have been educated in the Republic of Croatia and who have acquired the calling of the masters of medical-laboratory diagnostics not to be partially regulated professions in laboratory activities in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is another example of the defamation of the minister who, because of his haughtiness and goes away, leaves complete chaos in the health system and inflicting immense damage on young people who have finished schooling in the Republic of Croatia and who are forced to leave the Republic of Croatia immediately. Thank you very much. . /.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183577	Thank you, too. The final secretary of state, Mrs Majda Buric, will say a few words, she has 30 minutes to go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183578	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm not going to be 30 minutes, I'm going to be a lot shorter, I'm just going to sum up what might be the basic thing to pay particular attention to, and I haven't had time in replicas. So first of all, in fact, an example of how it's actually going to be conducted is a test of proportionality for a cook, so what I didn't get to answer in the replica is the following. If, at the same time, any future law or amendments and additions to the laws governing the profession of chefs are prescribed that this chef must belong to some associations, to the Croatian Food Federation, that he must have certain points that he will receive at certain seminars, and that he is then some future, possibly prescribed, membership or what that chef must have, in fact, going through the test of proportionality of that particular body, in this particular case the competent body is the Ministry of Economy, the aim is, in any case, greater mobility, but also the aim is to protect end-users, especially patients that I have cited and as an exception to this Act. In addition, I would also like to say that in the introduction I highlighted exactly what regulated professions are, there are 182's, they are listed in the list of regulated professions and the basis of Article 80(1). The law on regulated professions, it came out in the National Journal, 82/15, so respected colleague Djujic, where we saw that he did not know, in fact the difference between a state official and a person whose profession is regulated, here he is, here is a list of regulated professions for him. In addition, I should mention in particular the automatic professions that are automatically recognised, which was spoken by Mrs. Glasovac, so it is about doctors, dentists, dentists, midwives, nurses, or technicians, veterinarians, architects and pharmacists. These are the study programmes whose compliance with European programmes has passed yet, have been carried out at the time of the pre-accession negotiations with the European Union, and that is why these seven professions have automatic recognition if we are talking about the European Union or the Member States of the European Union. When we talk about these professions from third countries, then the process is completely different, of course, we want to protect the labour market, we want to protect the end-user, and then the procedure is different, very often and longer, but what has been changed in the 19th year of this Law has brought about is the possibility that this process can be reduced. For what? Because there is no longer an obligation to coordinate educational programmes under number one, then issue any additional measures, such as listening to some, some, some items at the University or laying down a theoretical part, or a practical part and so on, but the Chamber may prescribe, if it considers, a verification of competence, competence and that is what we have facilitated in the 2019 amendments. Of course, the goal is always to protect the end-user, especially patients, students spoken of by Mrs. Vosovac. Of course, I also asked myself on that side, a professionally deformed person, where there is education, but education is a public interest, and you know yourself that we have fully transposed the Directive, fully implemented, which means translated as it stands in the directive, the public interest stands in the directive, education is public interest. And I repeat once again, it was not long ago when the Republic of Croatia received official remarks from the European Commission in 2015 on the law passed by the SDP. We improved this in the seventh month of 2019, and fully implemented the Directive, and now we have only further explained the opinion that has come from the European Commission, and that is what we have further explained. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183579	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183580	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 822, the promoter is the Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications and other all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant for consideration when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 120 votes are in favour, and it is concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183581	and now we move on to the last item of the agenda in today's session, this is a proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Vice-President and member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, under a, and under b, a proposal for a decision to appoint a president, vice-president and member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. The applicant is the decision, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with Article 12. The Law on the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War was conducted by the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. With us is State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Mr Ivan Poljičak, who will surely take the floor. Here you go. [[Intruder: Ivica Poličak]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183582	Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. Indeed as soon as possible, since the current President of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, academician Franjo Shanjek, unfortunately passed away, is suggested that the current vice president, Dr Filip Hameršak, is appointed president and that science doctor Ivica Poljička is appointed vice-president of the Governing Council. At the same time, science doctor Miroslav Akmaj, who is a member of the Governing Council, and his term of office expires on 3 March 2020, proposes to be re-appointed as a member of the Governing Council on 4 March 2020. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183583	Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Josip Djakic, who will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, assuming he has one. He's gone. He's losing his right. The second is Mr. Miro Bulj, the club of representatives of the Independent Lists Most. He's gone. He's losing his right. Now we move on to individual debates. Mrs. Ines Strenja. She's gone, she's losing her right. The fifth is Mr. Goran Maras, an individual debate. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Bully has already lost his right to tell me. And now we've got Mr. Zeljko Ragug, who's here and he's doing the right thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183584	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary and colleagues and fellow MPs. Based on Article 12. The Law on the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War is prescribed the structure of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War and states that these tasks can be done by persons from the public and cultural life of the Republic of Croatia, the highest level, or by scientists who deal with contemporary and recent Croatian history. It is precisely from the résumés that we have received in support of today's decision that this principle is respected and that they are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to perform the work of founders on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, persons who are referenced to these issues, hence persons who have published scientific papers of Croatian, political, legal and cultural history and who have performed the most public and cultural duties in the Republic of Croatia. Why is it important that these people are in the structure of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre? For reasons of both the Republic of Macedonia and other countries of the former Yugoslavia have, unfortunately, been created during the war in the former Yugoslavia and the Homeland War. And just a number of disputes that exist between the peoples and countries in the area of the former Yugoslavia are the subject of the processing of this institution of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War and the activity of collecting specific buildings related to the Homeland War. Those who are proposed to the board of directors will be able to respond to these tasks that the Government will put before them and I appreciate that this is a good proposal and that should simply be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183585	Thank you, too. And now the last individual speaker is Mr. Bozo Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183586	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So we have before us proposals for the resolution and re-nomination of distinguished experts and scientists in the Administrative Council of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, so Mr Filip Hammeršak, Ivica Poljička and Miroslav Akmaja. Their résumés and institutions in which they are employed show that they meet all the conditions for the conduct of this important duty, so neither time nor word should be wasted. Furthermore, I would like to acknowledge the very Documentation Centre of Homeland War, its directors and all the employees of the centre on the results so far in research and publication of the truth about the Homeland War, in which they have certainly made their contribution to the former and hopefully future members of the administrative council of the centre. When I say Homeland War, then I mean the defensive Homeland War and... in Croatia and BiH, which led the Croatian people, and in this context I also want to highlight the role of the Homeland War Documentation Centre in Mostar, led by our colleague Mr. Željko Raguž, who is also committed to the research and publication of the truth about the Homeland War and should stress the support of the Croatian Government and the cooperation of the Croatian Memorial Centre from Zagreb to help our centre in Mostar. Despite historical truth, however, and despite the results that these documentation centres on the Homeland War have not yet penetrated all the heads of Croatia or BiH, let alone abroad. I am aware that some heads will never accept the truth, so no matter how convincingly they have argued or presented it. Unfortunately, there will be and will be in Croatian politics for a long time. So did we not witness that some in Croatian politics still justify the liquidations by OZNA and UDBA that took place up to 30 years ago, so did we not witness that some in Croatian politics today are actually accusing Croatia of aggression against BiH? However, colleagues and colleagues, such ones should not even be tried, but fortunately they are a prominent minority. All of us together including the Homeland War documentation centres should make sure that the truth about the Homeland War comes to the head of most well-intentioned but not sufficiently informed both our people and those abroad who in any way involve the fate of the Croatian people. Namely, the perception that is created and which takes on the characteristics of the Stigm on Croatia's role in the Homeland War, especially in BiH, as well as on Croatia's role in the process, are increasingly being used to model political processes in BiH at the expense of the Croatian people. In fact, this stigma and this accusation of the Republic of Croatia aims to move Croatia away from these processes and from its so-called inevitable role so that these processes can be modeled as appropriate to those who are not prone to the Croatian people. So today we are still talking about double aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina by implying Croatia's role in this. Croatian war victims are being neglected, crimes against Croats are not being prosecuted. Croatian political representatives accuse of dividing Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. Hence, several historical truths need to be repeated. So, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina went to the referendum at the highest percentage and voted for Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence. The president of the Republic of Croatia called on Croats to support Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence. During the war, all weapons for the BiH Army and the HVO went through the Republic of Croatia, 15 thousand Muslim wounded, Bosniaks were treated in Croatian hospitals. The Republic of Croatia also received nearly 6 hundred refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina during the war conflicts. On 13 September 2006, the Ambassador from the United States of America, in the Republic of Croatia, Peter Galbraith, told the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, "Without Croatia, BiH would not survive." etc. So how can anyone here see an attack on independence and the division of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Furthermore, Croatian political representatives supported all international agreements. However, it is important to mention that all these international agreements that were so to speak were on the table and proposed during the war here, in one way or another, so the established Bosnia and Herzegovina on the ethnic territorial principle, and then when it came to Dayton Bosnia and Herzegovina was divided in the most unfair way, in one identity with the Serb, the other with the Bosniak majority. However, it should not be forgotten that in front of Dayton, in fact, Serbian forces controlled about 46% of Bosnia and Herzegovina's territories, the Bosniaks 28% and the Croatians 26%. So, on that basis, it's actually white actually that this division into two entities one with Serbian, the other Bosniak majority and domination was actually done to harm Croats. All these things are actually overlooked and lost in sight and are being abused and used today in modeling political processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or marginalising the Croatian people as one of the three constituent peoples in the process. If we were to talk about war victims here, it would lead us far away. However, we all know here in Croatia and all know about the crime of genocide in Srebrenica and other crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, who here knows about Uborak and Sutin at Mostar in 92, Doljani near Jablanica 93, Nazdo September 93, Bikoshe in the Municipality of Travnik 93, slaughter in Križančev village, Vuhine house in Zabilje, etc. where hundreds and thousands of Croatian civilians and soldiers of captives were so liquidated. All these things should actually be explored, but should also be published and made public both to the Croatian and the world public. All Croats in BiH know who Kata Šoljic is who gave four sons in Vukovar to defend her country by expressing compassion and piety as a symbol... in the defence of Croatia. Does anyone here in Croatia know about Sarafina Laush's victim? Sarafina Lausch of the April village of Chukla lost three sons and a husband in June 93, and she herself was a victim trapped in the BiH Army camp in Zenica for 11 months. Her victim, however, is a symbol of the death of the Croats of Central Bosnia. My colleagues and colleagues, all the things I've been talking about right now, are asking to re-publish and re-enact and communicate with both the Croatian and the world public. Both the role of the Documentation Centre and not only the centre, but also the Croatian politics is that these things are actually politically communicating for the purpose of affirming the role of both the Republic of Croatia and the Croats in defence of both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I will remind the Croatian public here once again, particularly politically, of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia adopted in July 2017, quote: "In accordance with this, the Republic of Croatia will systematically oppose the attempts of the Croatian people and the Croatian state as full members of NATO and the EU. It also stresses the need to preserve the sovereignty and survival of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, protect its identity and political subjectivity. Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are a domicile, constitutional and constitutional people. However, after changes in BiH's electoral legislation, there is an emphasis on its constitutionality, sovereignty and equality. For this reason, the Republic of Croatia will benefit from all diplomatic, political and economic, educational, communication and other available mechanisms in order to protect its constitutional and sovereign status in accordance with its constitutional obligations as well as the obligations arising from signed international agreements." Finally, it also points out that the Republic of Croatia fully respects the statehood, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina as the countries of the three constituent nations. Fellows and colleagues, the processes today in Bosnia and Herzegovina are running to see Bosnia and Herzegovina more and more as a confederation of two quasi state entities one in Serbian, the other Bosniak domination, and therefore I remind this of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia is of knowledge to all concerned. So I finally support the proposed appointments and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183587	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow, on Thursday, January 30, 2020, at 9:30, we will continue with the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on maternity and parental support. I'll read you the other points, so you know. The second item is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the EU regulation on the transport of wood and wood products, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Chemical Act, and 4. Report on the state and operation of penitentiary facilities, prisons and educational institutions for 2018. Thank you very much and have a nice evening and afternoon. SESSION Interrupted at 16:02 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-01-29-0.u183588	We are now going to a point with a b.a.) Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Vice-President and member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of Homeland War and b.) Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the President, Vice-President and member of the Board of Directors of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of Homeland War. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. First, I am voting on the motion for a decision to resolve the Vice-President and member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of Homeland War. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 109 votes for and 3 abstentions were made by that decision. Secondly, I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint a president, vice president and member of the board of directors of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of Homeland War. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 102 for and 12 abstentions were made by that decision.
