ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5380	... The House Movement Representatives Club, the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, Mr. Skoro. [[Specially enabled.]] We've had a breach of the Rules of Procedure before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5381	Dear Vice-President, I don't know what to say to Dr. Peovic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Franjo Tudjman author of 200 wealthy families. Is that written down somewhere, so tell us a little bit more about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5382	I'm afraid I have to give you a warning because you didn't specify the article of the Rules of Procedure, and it was a replica. I'm sorry. Mr. Scoro, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5383	Dear colleagues and colleagues today are the most important levers of the historical continuity of Croatian state and some historical peers of the Croatian state. But today I don't want to talk about history because it's a common cause of fighting in the present, and the people who are currently arguing about their past don't have much of a future. I would have taken this central occasion to aphimately speak of the great act of our predecessors 29 years ago and our unfortunately marginal status today. And in '91. In the time of the severe crisis of each species, the pressures from the country and the world, the Croatian parliamentarians unanimously made a historic decision that could mean the escalation of war and aggression, but there was no withdrawal then, and there was no lack of courage. Now or never said "one" and it paid off. But how's it going today? Today as in the last 20 years, the Parliament has been completely marginalized and the president of the state has been baffled because he did not even come to the constitutive session. Such a ridiculous and shameful position of the Croatian Parliament is caused by the political self-love and egoism of the two ruling parties because it is much easier to manipulate them with 15 ministers than with 150 MPs. That is why they send obedient party personnel without political credibility and autonomy, completely unworthy heirs to our famous parliamentary ancestors from the past centuries, which in the Croatian people causes disgust and reluctance to politics and democracy. As a confirmation of this weight, I'm going to quote Professor Dr. Velimira Srić, who in his text "Is Zagreb a potential for a new step?" from September this year, said that the unwritten rule "Do you have extra ambition and lack of ability, deals with politics as in the city as in the country for decades. It is an activity in which you can make rapid progress without a quality of hard work behind it, but it is enough to find yourself in the right place at the right moment and get the support of a powerful political mentor who will provide you with career progress regardless of your ability or incompetence. The first year after Croatia was created, there were times of enthusiasm, great expectations and dramatic changes. The possibility of creating an independent and sovereign state has attracted many who would never deal with it and bring energy that has achieved the eternal dream of many generations. But after the initial enthusiasm, politics began to turn into politics, and the concentration of power corrupted many public function holders. With honorable exceptions, political space was ruled by negative selection. Those who had careers, reputation, expertise and the possibility of acting outside politics gradually retreated and remained a layer of permanent professional politicians mostly mediocrity who were nothing but able to work in life except sitting in the Parliament. Thus, the old wisdom proved that successful associates choose smarter than themselves, while mediocres surround themselves with less ability to look good among them by creating and feeling their irreplaceableness. Negative selection caused intellectual poverty because in time it became rude even to deal with politics." By preparing for this speech, I also talked to people who had experience in the assembly and I was told that in this House there was a sense but no power. It occurs to me, then, that it is better to have a mind without power than power without mind, so let us all have a happy Day of the Croatian Assembly with a desire to bring to this congregation the people who have chosen us the necessary changes. We've got brains, we need courage, and then power will come, but for starters, we just need those courages that our predecessors from the early '90s had. That's why I'm here and I believe it because we have to and we can make it happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5384	Thank you, too. Let's move on. Mr. Marijan Pavliček will now hold the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5421	The Honorable Vice President of HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Here I was talking at this very spot last week about the crimes committed in the town of Negoslavci near Vukovar where I gave the testimony of the president of the Association of Children of the Dead and Missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War Sandra Rapčak whose father, after the occupation of Sotina, was taken to Negoslavce, liquidated and where he lost every lead. Many Croats and non-Serbs, after the occupation of Vukovar, Sotina, Jakobovac and other places, have just ended up in Negoslavci and where they are also losing track. Here we witnessed yesterday all the arrests of eight residents of the Negoslavites on suspicion of the war crimes committed in '91. the years on the Ovcara. Today, however, he would talk more about the work of our institutions and the efficiency of the institutions themselves. The crime at Ovcara took place on November 20, 1991, yesterday was October 7, 2020, 29 years will be soon from the moment the crime occurred and was committed until the time when the suspects were arrested for the same crime. For 22 years, they lived freely in the Republic of Croatia and after the end of peaceful reintegration are available to Croatian authorities. It's 7965 days. This is all about the efficiency of the DORH, they need 44,000 hours of work to solve one case, 44,000, and then we wonder why our citizens do not trust Croatian institutions because after such a period, long-term court proceedings lasting for 5, 6, sometimes ten years and up to the first sentence of power will take ten years, which means 40 years from the start of a criminal offence to a judicial verdict. This is sad, this is unfortunate that a good part of our institutions unfortunately works this way. It is therefore necessary to move towards the root reform of the judiciary and the DORH. A state attorney can't choose by agreeing on a two-thirds majority in HS because he is dependent on the two-thirds majority, the state's attorney should choose exactly the people who have been working in the DORH for years who will best know who are the best quality among them. The DORH needs to establish a separate war crimes department, at least for the next few years, as long as there are still those survivors who have committed these war crimes, unfortunately and the surviving witnesses, because it is becoming less and less. I don't know whose interest it is after 30 years or 30 years to let go and not solve certain cases. Today's report by the Police Directorate says that two years ago, at the request of the Director of Police, a special department was established in the Directorate for the Resolution of War Crimes, in 2018. I think it's all about us, our institutions, and how they work. I'm not talking about individuals here. I'm talking about an institution as an institution. Unfortunately for these things, people lose hope in their own institutions in the state institutions and leave the Republic of Croatia for good. We must therefore go into root reforms and we must try the faith of Croatian citizens to Croatian institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5422	Thank you, too. And at the end of the day, Dalia Oreskovic will be the position of the IP, Smartnog and GLAS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5525	Honorable Vice President, fellow MPs and MPs. For some time now, I've been wondering if these speeches should have their own name. Well, my name today would be "Radically Wrong". And why is that? So because he radically mispronounced yesterday in his interview with A. Plenkovic on the day of a TV house when he commented on some of the remarks made to the government and the ruling majority by the opposition regarding the Janaf affair. I cannot agree with anything about this affair or any other corruption affair of HDZ, A. Plenkovic had to say because I think that radically everything he says and does is wrong. It's radically wrong that he doesn't want to support an investigative committee, though I understand it. I understand why, because even if a small repair of the legislative and institutional framework, it would make it impossible for the HDZ to maintain power. And if anything wrong with fighting corruption, in the judiciary, in the work of the security system, HDZ would certainly never come to power again. It is radically wrong because a pair of ears, insulting reason, offends the dignity of every citizen of our citizens and when A. Plenkovic declares that the government in this assembly and so on in his past term, is fighting corruption and is now moving towards a new strategy. It is radically wrong when A. Plenkovic announces that this very government of his will be the initiator of all necessary legislative changes, only because it received a huge 16% vote of voters in the previous parliamentary elections. It's radically wrong to even call to the word transparency because it doesn't know what it really means. It is not the introduction of full fiscal transparency that at one point all cities and municipalities will be obliged to show their finances on the websites of their municipalities or cities. Transparency would mean that this same obligation is imposed for all ministries as for all those other bodies that have huge financial amounts such as HBOR and a whole series of others. Transparency would exist if Croatia introduced a register of all business relations with all public authorities in such a way that the contract itself can be obtained in the register. Transparency would also mean establishing a register of all public assets, so not only of the state but also of the local ones, and if we could monitor whether it is granted in accordance with the prescribed rules or if it suits someone, if we could monitor whether all necessary rents and rents are paid to those who use this property on our behalf. Transparency would exist, and if we introduced a register of lobbyist meetings with anyone who made decisions, not only with ministers but also with the governor of the CNB, we saw the consequences of non-transparent meetings. But also at all other levels, down to the concession councils at the level of cities and municipalities. It is radically wrong when A. Plenkovic talks about preventing corruption because his government has just done everything it could to incapacitate one of the good institutions of this state that has proven itself in its work. For several years now, there have been proposals and the thesis for amending laws waiting in the drawer of a happier day or a more honest government. It is radically wrong when A. Plenkovic says anything about justice because from year to year, the DORH and the President of the Supreme Court through their reports point to anything that should have been changed in order not to bring corruption charges that fall into the water in court. It is radically wrong not to have the courage to engage in real territorial reform so as to reduce the number of counties, cities and municipalities. It is radically wrong not to touch on the reform of electoral legislation because, in fact, an analysis of the weight and value of the vote in each of the election units has shown that all of our choices in the past maybe 10 years are actually anti-constitutional. Maybe in one thing A. Plenkovic is right, maybe we don't really need an investigative commission, maybe nothing about HDZ should be investigated because everything about the toxic system that this structure has created, we all know. His sole purpose is to continue to rob and steal his own people uninterrupted. Yes, esteemed HDZs, you may not really need to be investigated, you should be disembarked. For a long time, I have known exactly what this should do so that all our citizens and citizens can live better. I'm talking about this plan for Croatia and the Anti-Corruption Strategy that I put together. I'm just wondering if it would be radically wrong to refer such a document to a parliamentary procedure? .../Intruder Radin: I am troubled by that folk proverb "do not put a pearl out of a good anti-corruption strategy in front of HDZ."
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5526	Thank you. But you have a word, you must state the position of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5593	Dear colleagues, colleagues, I would like to talk here about the culture that makes HDZ Plenkovic and SDSS Pupovchev in the area of my Cetinski end, at the very source of life at the Church of St. Rescue, a 9th-century church where we are being torn down by a flat bridge of buffers, where the head of the SDSS municipality, and his deputy HDZ is being changed every 4 years in the municipality of Civilians. The flat bridge from the 15th century was made of a 35-plate steak that then our old bridged Cetina in that place, it was not in use since World War II, made up to it a 20-metre second bridge, a modern bridge. However, to allow the Ministry of Culture to allow the head of the municipality and his deputy i.e. The SDSS and HDZ are doing this culture is amazing. That something that was built 5 centuries ago by a man incredibly archaeologists speak, says the profession to tear it down by the baggers and work as still doing a new bridge that will be older. I ask Pupovac, Plenkovic, Minister Koržinek, if they will incarcerate the Church of St. Save her and put plastic windows on her, will she do that? The flat bridge you won't take down, partly yes, I'm looking on behalf of all the citizens of the Cetina area because I'm the only representative from that section to urgently stop the works, the other day I was and to return it to its original state. 35 panel on 2 panels is located, stone large slabs, is located cross. We won't let them. I invite you all, especially our citizens who listen on Saturday at noon, come to our Cetina near the 15th century flat bridge. Let's stop the culture of Milorad Pupovac, Andrej Plenkovic, their mayors of municipalities and deputy municipalities. Who are destroying our history. I'm just gonna say here that the functioning of that community is amazing and it's saying what nonsense it is. It is a municipality of 200 inhabitants, the head of the municipality at the very source of the Vukovec heat where the Vrlički end is powered, the Kninski end of the water killed by drinking water made a villa and a septic pit. If someone wasn't hot, at the source of Cetina, most of you were. That area, a few weeks ago, we discussed here to declare the National Nature Park Dinara. At the same time as they're discussing it, and it's been the first time they've read it, they're tearing down our history. However, whoever writes his history on hard rock cannot erase the past, they must know that and will stop it. A few days ago with the defense groups, I was in that place, there were no workers, and we're not gonna let them do it. I invite you all to come Saturday at noon, the bell rang, to see what they're doing, but let's show everyone we've got us. Let's show that HDZ's, SDP's power is both local and state-owned will not bring our history down. It won't bring down on our rocks or rocks what our old man built. He'd also object if he'd... To throw the bush on the Pula Arena, but that wouldn't surprise me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wouldn't be surprised by these authorities because they want to do something older but new. Once again, I warn the authorities, the Ministry of Culture, which finance this, the conservative department in Sibenik, to stop this culture. To stop them from eradicating our history. They moved us, but there's more of us. So come on Saturday, all the respected citizens, let them see that we are there and that our past will not be erased. Not only is this our past, it's our pride, it's our attraction. The flat bridge on the river Cetina you won't bring it down, quickly return it to its original state, it's an order from the inflatable ancestors and us who will remain and live in that area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5594	Thank you. Katarina, Mrs Katarina Peovic, is the first to deliver a position on behalf of the Representatives' Club and independent representatives. Here you go. ... [[jamour]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5631	May I?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5632	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5633	Good afternoon, everyone. So in the course of the Janaf affair, the day after Ivica Todorovic was released from the charge that he had damaged his former concert with three associates by EUR 1.25 million, after we had the situation that he...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5634	Mrs. Selak, Mrs. Peovic, Mrs. Selak, come here for a moment please, I'm sorry, I haven't had a session before, I have no idea what this Mr. Bull is talking about. ............................................................................................................ [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I have no idea what Mr. Bull is talking about, you understand what I mean? [[All right, let's move on.]] [[Oh, never mind, let's move on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5635	You're not gonna figure that out in an hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5636	Here you go, Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5637	Now what?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5639	The thing is, do you want me to come down here or do you want me to answer it from here?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5640	Shall we let Mrs. Selak speak on behalf of the Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5641	So the thing is, I was right...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5642	Wait a minute, no, wait a minute, that's up to me, shall we? .../Ivan Bukarica: incomprehensible.//.../Catarina Peović: Yes, yes, as far as I'm concerned, so feel free./... We will, we can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5644	So I had the right to speak for five minutes as a rapporteur on behalf of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5645	Yeah, did you get that?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5646	So yes, and I filed the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5647	All right, then go ahead and talk now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5648	Since he's in a parliamentary debate...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5649	You spoke? Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5650	..asked a question of contradiction within the report itself...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5651	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5652	... as the person who is at the head of this Committee and who is the applicant of this Report, I went to explain the above-mentioned contradiction. At that moment, I was rudely interrupted that I had no right to talk about it, and that is precisely what my report was about and the Committee's work on whose leadership I am. So I consider it a rude violation of my rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5653	Yeah. Look, since it wasn't me, I can't answer that, then I suggest you give it to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and let it be talked about there. Is there any other need for breach of the Rules of Procedure? - Mrs. Crescent. Oreshkovic, is there a need? Here you go. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5654	Your Honor, I don't know if there's a need, but just to be clear, since you weren't there, it's not about your...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5655	Yes, but, but an article, you must specify an article.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5656	Art. In 238, therefore, representative Marija Selak Rasdić spoke of another topic she had no idea at all, so she did not speak about what she was supposed to say on behalf of the club but personally referred to the question that I referred to the Ombudsman about her report and the circumstances that were happening to her. on the floor. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time is up...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5657	...there is no longer any need for any violations of the Rules of Procedure and for any violations of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5658	Yeah, and when this is wrong. - Mrs. Crescent. Oreshkovic quoted my report.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5659	I gave you my word on my responsibility, I gave you my word on my responsibility, I gave you my word on my responsibility, it's not a item on the agenda now, the item on the agenda is taking a stand on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Representatives of Mrs. Katarina Peovic, green-left, green-left block, please. Here you go. ... Ma'am. [[/Intruder Bull doesn't understand.]] Here you go. It's not the point of the agenda, it's not the point of the agenda, no, you can type as much as you want. Here you go. Please report to the Committee on Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5660	That's not all you've got, you've got 12 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5661	Here you go. Here you go, ma'am. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5662	May I?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5663	Yes, you can. You may. First warning, second warning, Second warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5665	Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5666	That's why. Because you're interrupting the session, you're interrupting the session. It wasn't a part of the agenda, there's no reason, I'm just because I wasn't there for the pie I had. Selak raised and nice to explain to us what this is about...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5667	Al-Prost. Oreshkovic spoke.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5668	...so then I told her what the right word is for that thing, means to report to the Committee on Rules of Procedure and the political system. I can't do anything else, and there's no other reason to be making shows and exhibitionisms here, do you understand?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5669	Don't yell.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5670	You got it? ... Don't yell. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5671	I've got a business...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5672	Don't yell. Third and you no longer have the right to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5673	Why don't I have a right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5674	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5675	But you made it possible for Dalia Oreshkovic...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5676	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5677	...as agents why can't you let me?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5678	Here, please respond, ma'am. ... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5679	Well, it's not your nephew, hello.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5680	You're welcome to speak, ma'am. ... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5681	Hello, you got 12 votes, hello. I'm an agent, I want the Rules of Procedure respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5682	You're welcome to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5683	I ask that the Rules of Procedure be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5684	I don't...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5685	Why isn't the same Rules of Procedure for all MPs? Why did you allow other agents and not allow us?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5686	No, it wasn't, no, no, it was just one thing, it was just one explanation, it was just one explanation that I was...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5687	It's not, it's the injury of counterpart Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5688	...excuse me, five minutes break, Mrs. President. Selak, come and talk to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5689	What now?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5690	Here's five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5691	Here's from another attempt. Good afternoon, everyone. So in the course of the Janaf affair the day after Ivica Todorovic was released from the charge that with his three associates you damage the concert for 1.25 million kuna, after Kutle left without punishment for the fact that the affair of Tisak came into obscenity, we might instead of embarassment, moralization should start to ask some more substantial questions, meaning some broader questions about systemic corruption. If anyone believes more that the problem would be solved by getting rid of Ivica Todorovic, who I will remind you as well as Friday, together with Dragan Kovacevic was an award-winning entrepreneur, means the entrepreneur of the year, or so that Dragan Kovacevic, mentioned, we get rid of who he is, and I will remind you that he was an advocate and enforcer of the privatisation of the pension system, or by getting rid of Lovra Kuščević, Milan Bandic, who works and so on. All these great entrepreneurs and politicians just want to earn or allow others to earn, and they only get tested if their hands are caught in jam. Although the media is disgusted by Agent Janaf that the discovery of money in the bags has occurred which were taught at the club is just the tip of the ice santa and the successful story of a private entrepreneur who was simply given money to make it better for everyone and that there was no such thing as a bribe job would be no problem at all. How systemic corruption in capitalism works on the periphery of Europe is this up to a list of successful capitalists. The goal is first to place experts from the capitalist mile into a public enterprise, say Janaf, and give them as much pay as possible. Two, set up public tenders for friendly capitalists with the help of experts, overpay as many jobs as possible, deal with loss and not pay salaries to workers, remember Uljanika, let's remember INE. Then announce privatisation, lay off workers or shut down businesses because it is a loss business and then sell to capitalists the company to make a profit instead of the state or to shut down the company and sell off the land and ultimately demonise the whole public sector as a means of making public consent and continuing to implement the same economic policy. Who's to blame? Well, the arrests are, of course, to blame. Friday, Todorovic, Kutle and others are nothing but models of successful entrepreneurs until proven otherwise, and the opposite is proven every little. So, the problem is neither who went to which club nor who is rude, but the problem is that the social majority on the periphery of Europe in capitalism is disbursed and that the dissipated majority is no longer given any power, and the power is concentrated in the hands of elites who have public money, public good power, and corruption and trade in influence is only due to this depravation of elites, most pardons. What you can do is very simple. The corruption could end with the return of the social majority of what the social majority lost in the 1990s. In the '90s, there was an eastern sin the beginning of this country was created in criminal privatisation and conversion, and this privatisation and conversion was not only criminal because the state's audit found that 90% of the cases were crime, but because taking away the social majority from the hands of what the social majority created crime. And it won't be resolved until it solves the subtle question that arose in the '90s. So I suggest that we continue to give these successful entrepreneurs rewards, and these awards should be called the Grand Order of Dr. Franje Tudjman author of the vision of 200 wealthy families, the reality that we live here today, which is a reality where 2% of people have 50% of the wealth in banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5734	Mr Ivan Radic will be the position of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5735	Dear Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. On Monday, October 5th, under the chairmanship of the government, Andrej Plenkovic, Nasice, held an 11th session of the Council for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. I am aware of the attention, and I believe that we are all aware of the importance and opportunity that the Slavonia project means not only for Slavonia and Slavonsa, but also for all of Croatia. In the year that has been possible and most challenging since the end of the Homeland War, Slavonia is moving with full force forward. If we withdraw the parallel with the previous council session held in December 2019. in Vukovar, we can see that significant progress in the negotiation of projects is visible. On the basis of the above, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, until 31 August 2020 There has been an increase in negotiations in the area of 5 Slavonian counties of as much as 5.2 billion kuna. From the beginning of the project, 16.53 billion kuna has been agreed, representing 88.16% of the project's total amount of 18.7 billion kuna. We're on our way, but the real job is just ahead of us, a job that will have a long-term impact on Slavonia in economic and demographic terms. The activities that will determine the use of funds in the future are under way, and above all I am referring to preparatory activities related to the next financial period from 2021 to 2027, but also to the definition of reforms and projects for the development and implementation of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan as well as future cohesion policy programmes. What does this mean specifically for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem? What does that mean, for example, for my Osijek? I will say only through the projects because indeed the list is longer, reconstruction of the track Okucani – Vinkovci worth 3.5 billion kuna, construction and equipment of a new Clinical Hospital Centre in Osijek worth 2 billion kuna, reconstruction of the HNK worth 80 million kuna, reconstruction and expansion of the airport in Osijek worth 395 million kuna, construction of a new station in Osijek worth 36 million kuna, reconstruction of the Osijek railway – Virovitica worth over a billion and 100 thousand kuna. And now that we imagine all these projects it is very clear that Osijek, Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, the same Croatia and ultimately the whole of Croatia will not be the same place after this. This will also help the new national classification of statistical regions of the Republic of Croatia, Croatia, Croatia, Northern Croatia and the City of Zagreb as statistical regions of the second level, i.e. NUTS 2 regions. Therefore, a significantly fairer and more realistic new division has a positive impact on the intensity of regional support for entrepreneurs, which will contribute to increased support for small, medium and large entrepreneurs in the area of Pannonian Croatia. It would mean that entrepreneurs in Osijek, Virovitica, Vinkovci, a small entrepreneur, would increase his support amount to 45 to 70%, for medium-sized entrepreneurs from 35 to 60% and for large entrepreneurs from 25 to 50%, respectively. This corrects the injustice that the SDP government has done to the east of Croatia when we were together with the City of Zagreb, which made us more statistically developed than we really are. But this is not a 100m race, nor is this a race where Slavonia takes from anyone else in Croatia. Thanks to our government, the funds are secured, a strategy will soon be presented, and everyone who has completed the projects will also receive funding. This is not the derby of Osijek with Dinam or Hajduk, in this story everyone who does their part will also be the winners. Finally, it should be pointed out that 449.5 million kunas worth of contracts were awarded after the session. It is a total of 66 contracts that provide 315.4 million kuna of grants. I am sincerely looking forward to the next session of counsel to be held at the Pleternica and I am convinced that we will continue with the good news from Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5736	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5737	I'm giving up on the injuries of my colleague's Rules of Procedure is consistent with his former colleagues' promises. Thank you very much, I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5795	Mr. Franco Vidovic will be the position of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5796	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here's how my colleague Jankovics came along, and so will I, I'll start with a local theme, but a topic that is unfortunately and which many Croatian citizens have been through over the years. So far back in 2002. The bankruptcy proceedings were opened at the Sibenik textile company Revija d.o.o. The long 18th year, so to this day, the bankruptcy procedure of the Sibenik textile company lasted to this day, only on 24 September 2020, at the Commercial Court in Sibenik, the state suddenly decided on behalf of its claims of 65 million kuna to take over the former Croatian brand's property in fashion. That's how the state got Revija's property into disposition and freedom to decide its future. It is her will that she discusses a new tender for the sale of the company, restarts production, which I must say I doubt, or waits for a favourable buyer. But that's part of the story. Another much worse part of the story is that the Sibenik tailors, 326 of them, hope that they could now finally wait for all court-renowned claims totalling 13 million kunas and the remaining 9.7 million kuna debt. Namely, the last payout of the workers took place six years ago. when the Bosniak tailors paid only 3.3 million kunas after the strike threat and after a series of things. The entire debt was built on the name of a pay claim. So, these women are, they're not paid. The workers of Revija are pleased at this moment with an unexpected turnover, just like their legal representative and union representative Vedran Uranija from the territory office of SSH Zadar, believe that this is now the right opportunity for the state to show good will and deprive workers and before deciding to sell the Revija eventually because 9.7 million kuna, we all know this, is a drop in the sea for the state budget. We believe that continuing production in the Revija would be the best solution because it means new employment, and besides that it is never explained why the Sibenik configuration failed? Why was she shut down and sentenced to bankruptcy? That's why both the workers and the union have asked for DORH and USKOK to enter the company, but that never happened. It is equal to the enigma and why the bankruptcy manager refused offers in order to restore production and take over part of the workers, and the offer of the Sibenik Inter, Rost sport, Acts from Unesic, etc. was rejected. So there were also interested in 24 auctions, but all offers were persistently rejected. Otherwise, workers, together with their legal representative, addressed the Ministry of State Assets and the Ministry of Finance in due time, with a proposal that the government would waive parts of the claim in favour of their potential in full or in a minimum amount of 8 unpaid salaries per worker. After that, they also made an appeal to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic asking that it be paid off because it would ultimately be fair, fair and correct. Since the government has received signals from the government that their proposal is seriously under consideration, they have dropped the protests planned in May and June at Mark's square. Just to remind, the starting price of Revija in bankruptcy was 25 million kuna, but up to 24 auctions fell to only 5.5 million and when it seemed to be the final price for which Revija would be delivered to the new owner, the state decided to take its property under its own. What the state will do with its newly acquired assets, we'll see. Sibenik tailors today, which because of the years, which because of their overexhausting bankruptcy and do not think about going back to work, and many more and physically cannot, is important only to them to settle their debt. We expect the government to show good faith and pay off the workers so that they can do so after 18 years. waiting and existential uncertainty experience full material, moral and human satisfaction. That is why, in agreement and together with the workers of Revija and their union representative, I asked for the reception of President Zoran Milanovic and the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5797	Thank you, too. Mr. Robert Jankovics will stand, he will speak on behalf of the National Minority Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5818	Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the topic I want to talk about today is local character, not just about my community, the topic of my presentation is the status of pride in Baranja, Belje. A good climate, a favourable position along the Danube River, a quality country for the cultivation of all kinds of culture and cereals and smart investment has contributed to the development and exploitation of natural resources. The description is that of the Whites, which was reported by a senior owner of the property exactly 200 years ago, in 1820. Since 1697, Eugen Savoyski, who had won from King Leopold I of Austria as a prize for victory over the Turks, then through Queen Elizabeth, after which Queen Mary Teresa and her daughter Maria Kristina and until the archduke Karl Ludevita and archduke Karl Albrecht, was left a jewel in the crown of all the rulers who ruled the area of Baranja. In the middle of the 19th century, 4 steam machines were operated on Belje and, as far as livestock production is concerned, data from 1852, so less than 150 years ago, say that there were 753 stops with more than 58 000 animals on the Belje estate. In the early 20th century, a sugar factory in Branjin Vrh and a dairy factory in Bela Manastir were established and the mill whose production capacity was 24 tonnes per day was raised. 1921. The bee passes into state property but development doesn't stop, between the two world wars, building a rail track with a restored locomotive and three corresponding wagons today exposed to the centre of the White Manastir as a symbol of the history of this good giant. A full 40 years ago, Belje introduced irrigation and 36 years ago began production of probably the most famous white product and brand, fresh cream cheese “ABC”. 2005. Belje enters the Agrokora concert and, a year and a half ago, for the first time in history, changes his name to "Belje plus d.o.o." as part of Forte Nova Group. After this short hour history of Baranja and Belje, we arrive in September 2020. I just quoted a senior property clerk from 200 years ago and now I'm going to quote a modern record of a modern senior landowner or a site called Forte Nova Group from last week. "In order to continue to strengthen integration processes in the business area of agriculture and organisation that will ensure better use of all resources in the Forte Nova Group agricultural companies, a new governance structure has started to operate in this business area since 1 October 2020. In Belgium, as the largest company in the agricultural segment, there was a change that made management president Andrej Dean, former executive president of Fort Nova, a person in a wider circle of people, a much more famous close associate of Fabris Peru. The new members of the Belja administration also became chairman of the PIK Vinkovci administration and VUPIK's chairman. The integration of the directors of Vukovar VUPIK and PIK Vinkovci as members of the management of Belje unequivocally determines the first and perhaps the main objective of the new administration, which is to connect Belje, VUPIK and PIK Vinkovce into one company. As one of the two Baranjacs in this meeting of HS, I warn in time that the possible creation of megabels will create a company that uses 30 thousand hectares of the most fertile country in Croatia and will have more than 2,500 employees. I hope everyone understands the possibilities, but also the dangers of building such an economic godzilla east of Croatia. I also warn of the consequences of the possible not-good management of such a megabel in Baranja, which, even in the days of Eugen Savoyski, said that Baranja=Belje. I call upon and ask those who may only be able to do so, which is the Ministry of Agriculture to closely monitor this procedure, if nothing else given the numerous land use contracts which each of these companies has separately concluded under different circumstances and under different conditions. And in the end, I warn members of Fortan's group that they have appointed a new management of Belje, where there is not a single leader from Belje, although in 2019 it was a record and recorded a record profit according to what she paid a record tax in the state budget, did it have to be like this?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5819	Thank you very much. The vice president, Mr. Scoro, was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5820	Thank you very much. Of course, the famous art. In 238, I have no other way, although it is a free speech I would just like to tell Mr. Janovics that this warning should not be sent to Fortan's group but to the people of HDZ Mr. Andrej Plenkovic and the Borg group. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5821	You know better than I do that it was a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u5822	Here, dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning, I warmly welcome you all. Today is October 8th when we mark the Day of the Croatian Assembly, mentioned in the Republic of Croatia, so please rise to honor our country with our beautiful anthem. - I invite you to remain on our feet for a minute of silence and honor all the dead Croatian defenders, the first Croatian president as well as the recently deceased first president of Parliament, Zark Domljan. - A moment of silence - May eternal praise and glory be to them. Rest in the peace of God. Here, dear colleagues and colleagues, let me speak to you before we continue today's session with a few words. On behalf of the president of HS and I personally congratulate all of us and all of the Day of the Croatian Parliament. On October 8, 1991. The HS has made a historic and unanimous decision on the termination of the state-run legal alliances with the other republics and provinces of the SFRY. Such a decision in practice meant the termination of all state-owned ties with the other republics of the former Federation and with the then state. 29 years ago, HS found that the Republic of Croatia no longer considers any legitimate and legal body of the former State and does not recognise the validity of any legal act by any body acting on behalf of the previous Federation, which no longer exists as such. That decision was taken by the Parliament after a three-month moratorium expired on the constitutional decision on independence and sovereignty adopted by the Assembly on 25 June on the basis of the Brijuni Declaration. The day before, JNA aircraft bombed the historic core of Zagreb and the Ban Court in an attempt to kill Croatian leadership headed by the first Croatian president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman. Due to these circumstances, the historic session of the Parliament was not held at the HS building, but at the INA building in Šubic Street in Zagreb. The decision to end the Croatian state-run legal alliances with the rest of the SFRY republics has not been completed at the end of the process of unbundling Croatia from the former state. This decision, together with the constitutional decision on independence and sovereignty, confirmed the Croatian people's right to national self-determination, self-determination and the right to a sovereign independent and independent state. By Decision of 8 October 1991 HS has once again proved itself as many times during the long centuries of Croatian history as the real holder and guardian of the sovereignty of the Croatian people and of the legal order. In defence of modern Croatian statehood, freedom and democracy, many Croatian defenders have given their lives so that the Homeland War and its values are the cornerstones of the existence of today's Croatia. Dear MPs and MPs, HS played a key role in making important decisions to create and defend independent and democratic Croatia. Today, when we face the challenge of a global pandemic, HS continues to work under such circumstances and makes laws important for the benefit of all our citizens and the functioning of the state. Although our day of the pandemic could not be marked so solemnly in the presence of all of our representatives, we are sitting and making decisions, which is our most important task. Therefore, I wish you all a great deal of health and a continuation of the honorary duties of MPs and MPs, and our Croatian Assembly shall live forever. Thank you. Here we continue with the agenda, the first point today is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on aquaculture, first reading, P.Z.E. No 25 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Zdravko Tušek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8355	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives, the main objective of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Aquaculture Act is to bring the Aquaculture Act in line with the amendments to EU rules in the section relating to tuna farming. This proposal for a law will achieve a more effective implementation of inspection supervision of tuna farming in the section relating to traceability and control of all activities carried out at tuna growing sites. The proposal for a law prescribes new provisions relating to the maximum capacity of tuna farming available to the Republic of Croatia and the maximum entry quantity of tuna caught which may be introduced into breeding sites in the field of the Republic of Croatia on an annual basis. This capacity shall be determined on the basis of Regulation (EU) 2016/1627 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 September 2016 on the multiannual Bluefin tuna recovery plan in the Eastern Atlantic and the Mediterranean and repealing Council Regulation No 302/2009 and shall not be amended until that Regulation is amended. The proposed law lays down the basis for the adoption of a regulation which will prescribe the way they are made available. The capacity available to the Republic of Croatia was established in 2009 at the level of an international organisation managing tunas, so-called tunas. ICCAT, or at a time when the Republic of Croatia was an equal member of the ICCAT. By joining the EU, the Republic of Croatia maintained all previously acquired rights relating to tuna farming such as those capacities. Currently, the maximum capacity of tuna farming in the Republic of Croatia is 7,880 tonnes per year, and the maximum input amount of catches of wild tuna that may be introduced into the breeding sites of the Republic of Croatia is 2,947 tonnes per year. The proposal for a law prescribes measures to mark the breeding facilities provided for in tuna farming and monitoring measures for all actions carried out at tuna growing sites. In order to enable the implementation of the relevant inspection supervision of the implementation of the Aquaculture Act, Council Regulation No 869/2004 amending Regulation No 1936 of 2001 laying down control measures for the fisheries of certain stocks of highly migratory fish and Commission Implementing Regulation No 404 of 2011 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Council Regulation 1224 of 2009 establishing a Community control system for ensuring compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy is further introduced. A list of officers carrying out inspection supervision of law enforcement shall also be prescribed in such a way as to propose that the inspection be carried out by officials of the State Inspectorate in the field of their jurisdiction. This proposal also introduces a register of aquaculture vessels in view of the Commission’s Implementing Regulation 2017 No 218 concerning the Union fishing fleet register, which entered into force on 1 February 2018, which excludes aquaculture vessels from application and is also prescribed by the implementation of this measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8356	Thank you. Wait, we have two replicas. Here you are, dear representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8357	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues here are talking about the tuna quota on the aquaculture law, we are discussing regulations, the community...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8358	What were you looking for? You didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8359	It's a ten-minute stop on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8360	A break, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8361	... knowing that Croatia, Croats eat per kilogram, uses 10 kg per capita, while in the EU it is 25 kg on average, even in Portugal 50. But we just talk and copy when we talk about aquaculture, fish farming in this tuna case, we have to talk about how much we ruined it, and I expect the Ministry of Agriculture to answer here mainly about aquaculture, we can't just catch one topic. We have a farm in Ruda that produced 800 tonnes of capacity, 240 swimming pools, 40 people worked in the area, I'm curious if we're talking about aquaculture why we destroyed that farm a few years ago while we're importing frozen fish into the Republic of Croatia? Here Ruda is a clear, clear river that affects the river Cetina. We have the largest trout farm in Europe, it's destroyed, it's devastated, it's literally garbage, people in the Cetina area are warning you. There were 40 people working there, and that farm in Ruda is today a communal problem, and we have 240 swimming pools of which 100 were a yard. Imagine what our capacities are, and we're importing fish frozen from other countries. It is one of the key problems and the kind of things that we have like the farm in Ruda, which the people of this area warns you both of the prime minister and of you, I ask you publicly, all of us, what we will do to eat Croatian fish, not frozen Fish? [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8362	Any other requests for a break? There isn't. I'll have a break by 9:00 and 50 minutes. It's 9:00 P.M. Here we go. Dear Secretary of State, we have three replicas. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8364	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, we see that we are adapting. We prescribe EU directives to bring them into line, in this case there is a speech on tuna farming. However, as I said at the time that the Croatian state imports fish, we have conditions for exporting fish. I'm asking you when we're talking about aquaculture, what about a farm that's one of the biggest aquaculture sites in Europe on the Ruda River by the Cetina River, what about it? Did you do anything about having a 240-pound complex with 800 tons of annual fish farming, trout, did you do anything about it? For years now, you've been warned by locals, what about the Ruda farm in the Dalmatinski Island municipality? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8365	Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8366	Dear Parliamentarian, regarding your question with the Ruda farm, we can inform you that we have knowledge of the current situation at that farm. What you all also probably know is that this farm was privately owned by bad business and bad business policy. That farm is no longer operating today. He's in the middle of a restructuring phase right now. According to our information, we're thinking about how to bring in a new investor. As far as the Ministry of Agriculture itself is concerned, the Ministry of Agriculture is absolutely standing for all who want to invest it at their disposal. Also, throughout a series of measures available to investors and all those operating in aquaculture, and these results back several years really show a serious increase and growth, but this is also something that depends on the private entrepreneur himself and the current owner of the farm.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8367	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8368	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The Rules of Procedure of 238 was injured because I asked what happened to the largest resource in Europe after raising trout in the Republic of Croatia, I told the municipality of Ruda Island. You're saying it was now privatized. Yeah, it was privatized, so the debts, so the robbery. I want to know what you're doing with that resource that Croats are going to get healthy fish from the river Cetina, not to import frozen fish. Fish, what are you doing about it? [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8369	So this was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8370	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'll go back to the tuna theme. So, EU directives on tuna are talking about the Atlantic and the Mediterranean. When it comes to the Mediterranean Adriatic Sea, it really does, but it is the coldest, coldest part of the Mediterranean, and when it comes to tuna farming, we have this period of 18 to 32 months to eat tuna and bring it to the desired quality, or weight. I am interested in the directive and in the preparation that it was, was it an account, was it, was it, was the competent ministry really involved and pointed to this problem, or was part of the directive relating to the Atlantic applied to us or only the part that was connected to the Mediterranean waters? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8371	The answer to the guest secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8372	Dear parliamentary MPs, as it was mentioned in the introduction, means we are talking about legislation relating to the Eastern Atlantic and the Mediterranean, which also applies to the Republic of Croatia. As I was saying in the opening statement, the capacity to which Croatia is at its disposal is determined as early as 2009. and at that moment they were far below those capacities which, in fact, Croatia, the Republic of Croatia could achieve. In a few years back, production and the need for these quotas are really increasing, in a way and the amendments to the Aquaculture Act contribute precisely to what we were talking about and what is actually the subject of this, of these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8373	Thank you. Would the committee's rapporteurs like to take the floor, Maria Jelkovac, Maria, Marijana Petir? No, I don't. Thank you. Then we open the debate, the first to discuss is the Honorable representative of Willy Matula of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8374	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the presidents of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. We in the green-left block, platform We can certainly support the development of aquaculture or fish farming. Of course, it is very important that this fish is fed in such a way that it is truly ecologically sustainable and that we get really healthy fish. As for these quotas that are increasing in the small Adriatic Sea, there is really not too much wild indigenous Adriatic tuna, and I do not think, in that sense, that quota should be further increased. We're already here at the end. So our highly esteemed, world-wide highly esteemed Adriatic tuna that goes in part down and out into the south and possible on these trips and across the Mediterranean, however, it is highly appreciated. Now what happens to her for those who don't know? So this wild Adriatic tuna is being hunted and then it's being thrown into cages and then it's being fed and it's looking for some balance that's going to fit in the market. However, the fact is that there is a major problem in the maintenance of this type of production in countries that are well known, which is Greece, that is Catalonia in Spain, as well as Norway that has all the resources and money possible to develop this type of production, it is placed everywhere as a problem. And one of the most important problems is that Japan, as the most likely country, has traditionally used tuna and other fish, but it is just tuna and appreciated in the Japanese market for Adriatic tuna, that they themselves have come to the conclusion that this is no longer possible and cannot be fished out in this way. Of course we as a green-left coalition especially for the platform We can do something that is extremely important because today there is a possibility for the production and development of tuna in so-called. full circle, full cycle. This means that the tuna hatches and then develops all the way to the end, it also allows the tuna not to be so full of mercury and other heavy metals that it by its nature, given that it is at the top of the food chain, means that it collects everything that is smaller fish that it during its lifetime to grow to that incredible 300 kg size you can imagine what amount of live has tuna in it. The younger generations even in Japan today check it out, the younger generations are looking for ways to drive us to this new way of production in capitalism where really information technology is being chased to the end, so that minds, young minds, so that they can do it among other things, they're taking special medications to get the extra alive out of the brain first. And in Japan where it's still drying and the whole tradition that's now spread around the world there's a big problem that lives. This living thing is a big problem for us with the maids and all these fish that are on top of the food chain. However, at this very moment when all production is questionable Croatia has its chance in doing so, which means it is starting this full cycle, this full circle of tuna production and that by feeding that tuna it significantly reduces its quantity of live in tuna. And what's very important about that is that we feed these cages, these farms what they call or ranches what they call tunas out there, put them in places and feed them exactly the kind of food that won't be fatal to the ecological environment around those cages. And it is equally important, of course, not to be too close to the beaches for tourism. In any case, we are for this, and we want to believe that in this very short law there will be no mention of how a full cycle of small fish could be grown, but only talking about the capture of wild Adriatic tuna. Now, I believe that until the second reading, you can put that part in, given that it requires a scientific background, and I am absolutely convinced that at this point, if we go along with other partners around the world and with people who are so interested, Japan who is very interested in our tuna, I am convinced that this can raise our science and that this kind of cultivation in breeders’ cooperatives around the coast will not harm the eco system, it will not be dangerous for beaches and tourism, but what is crucial will not be profit and the whole thing will be in the hands of just a few, we avoid it. At this time when you can't find a way to hire, this also employs a scientific community and this employs our people all over the coast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8375	Thank you. The next debate is a distinguished representative of Anka Mrak Taritash on behalf of the IP, Smart and GLAS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8376	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. We have before us the law, or amendment and addition of the Law on aquaculture. These amendments and additions are exclusively related to tuna farming and compliance with certain Directives. Any law ahead of us can be seen on a formal and contained level. It's formal harmonisation, we have provisions that define it, and at a content level it's good to talk a little bit about the problem, I won't say when the problem is, the tuna problem in the Republic of Croatia. The Adriatic Sea is compared to all the seas you're looking at, in fact, one slightly larger bay, no matter what it seems to us somehow different. Similarly, when we look at the Mediterranean sea, it is the coldest sea and it is colder than the other part of the Mediterranean and when tuna is grown in the Adriatic Sea, then the time it takes to cycle is from 18 to 32 months. On the other hand, Croatian tuna is really highly ranked in its quality. On the other hand, one of the 5 most important export products of the Republic of Croatia, and when we look at the data from 2019, 3800 tonnes of tuna were exported and that was the income of 50 million euros. We often like to talk from this pay phone and call for something called sustainable development. Well, when it comes to tuna, we can see exactly what sustainable development means. On the one hand, from an economic point of view, tuna is extremely important as an economic actor, at this point according to the data that I have managed to obtain, perhaps it is a little bit different at this point, and about 400 employees have been employed in tuna farming and it is an important economic factor. Then we come up with this other problem which is an environmental problem. So, tuna farming, I say tuna farming as aquaculture causes a few things. First, tuna feeds on blue fish. The problem of posidonia, and these are the grasses that are where the cages are, where the growing sites are, since everything down there is absolutely disrupting, or no more sydonic, then, they leave really fat stains on the surface of the sea, and now you have to make a proper balance, balance, or plan well, that where tuna growers are so that they don't break anything else. Otherwise, about 10 years ago, it started with this way.../incomprehensible/... tuna farming, then certain provisions that speak in the area of spatial planning speak of the fact that they must be 300 metres from the sea, but also, tuna farming sites have certain conditions. So I can't be everywhere, I need to take care of the waves, I need to take care of the currents that are, and there's now the art, and it's actually sustainable development. On the one hand, you have to protect space, on the other hand, you have to take care of environmental protection, on the third hand it's a serious economic factor that should not be ignored. So I think it's extremely good that you're in this law in the provision of an article. 9 You talk a little bit about planning, you're talking about defining rules that will define the convenience of parts and maritime goods, but others for planning, that you simply have to conflict all possible interests there. On the one hand, it is really very important from the point of view of environmental protection that where tuna are, it does not break anything else. On the other hand, it is really important that it does not disrupt tourism, we ourselves know what tourism means and how we treat it. It would not be good for electricity, with electricity, to have the consequences that are on the growing sites seen on the coast and that is a good one and there should be really good, good conditions and a good way. Tunas like anything, like anything else, you know, the simplest thing in life is to cross hands and do nothing and say we protect space, protect nature. When it comes to tuna, tuna is really very high, as I have already said, even tuna farming, tuna exports, very high in terms of economic activity, but what we need to take care of, we need to make sure that there are no others that actually we don't have tuna growing something else, and then there's cooperation for everyone. And there's this interdisciplinaryity, so there's got to be cooperation and the Ministry of Agriculture that looks at its interest here, so the interest in having aquaculture, to develop. You have to look at the interest from the aspect of environmental protection because it's just the same, you know once, when you disrupt natural values, you've broken them forever. So, the fact is that underneath the scientific fact, proven, we know that, and where the growing sites are, but I have to say, they're neither exclusive tunas, but there are some other fish, there are no more, there's no more of those weeds and everything else. So the plant world can be restored at some point, and the third side is actually good planning. Good planning means that in a place that is relatively small, no matter how small it seems to us, you have to plan for the development of tourism and port nautical tourism and some ports that are hot, I personally appreciate those ports that are under control because then from the aspect of environmental protection it's much better to have wrinkles, not that anyone who throws anchors, lifts up with an anchor something else. Likewise, the development of tourism, but the development and some economic activities. Therefore, it is about amending and supplementing the law which is absolutely because it is also about first reading is for support. There are, there are one, two, three provisions that I warn the promoter of, and it would be good to think about it until the second reading and see if something changes. That's an order. The 6th you've got, you're changing Art. 11 and who you're talking about when the permit is lifted. Since it is about aquaculture, and the permits, so aquaculture, among other things, is also about concessions. It would be extremely good if, when a person decides to abolish, that is, his permit is lifted, and now you have stated everything there is to be and that this man is left without a concession because if you put provisions in place in which you cooperate with some other ministries in relation to some other regulations, then you work here with regard to the concession. So, if someone doesn't, if someone has lost their license then the result of that must be a concession for the simple reason that our greater interest is to get someone else's permission and work rather than stay because the consequence is you again, I'll only go back to two sentences, so someone leaves the cages, and the cages someone needs to take care of everything together, so he leaves the mess in space. We are one of the few EU countries now do the other, which otherwise plans and the sea, so unlike other EU countries that have always dealt with land planning, we are those in our tradition of spatial planning and sea planning. We in our spatial plans, regardless of whether they are at the county level or at the level of the municipalities and cities we have planned and what may be. So, tuna farming is an economic activity, it's planned in spatial plans, there's something you're talking about spare areas, so everything that needs to be grown should be in spatial plans, it's good to think about it, now we have some kind of experience here for 10 years. Why is it good? On the one hand, it is good to protect space, protect the environment, and on the other hand provide quality economic activity. Our interest is that when someone deals with the economy, it's a quality deal, but it's an interest and one that deals. Our club will in its first reading support this amendment and the addition of the law, but please consider these remarks until the second reading you will get a more quality bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8377	The next representative is a respected representative of Vesna Nadj on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8378	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Aquaculture Act, which is the main objective of harmonising the laws with the amendments made to EU rules relating to the maximum capacity of tuna farming, the maximum input amount of wild tuna caught that may be entered into the farm, the provision of traceability at tuna growing sites and the introduction of a vessel register. Aquaculture is an activity dealing with the cultivation of aquatic organisms including fish of mollusk, crabs and seaweed. The breeding process involves a certain form of intervention, i.e. artificial nest, food, protection from predators. Due to the growing need for food from marine and freshwater organisms and limited resources from nature, aquaculture is one of the fastest growing activities in food production in the last few years with an average annual growth rate of 6-8% per year. Croatia has a long tradition of aquaculture, organised stone growing in Maloston Bay has been recorded in the 16th century, with us pioneering for branding and growing in the Mediterranean, and we are still one of the leading countries for growing this species of fish in the Adriatic. The farming of tuna is of paramount importance for Croatian fisheries because of the high value of production, but also the fact that this activity is subject to fishing for small blue fish for tuna food and other sectors. The tuna hunt is strictly limited, the practically caught specimen must be recorded, such a regime does not have any other fish or any other land animals. This year, the fishing could be carried out by 18 ships, mostly from the Zadar area, which is not strange, since the Kalish fishermen first from Australia in Croatia at the end of the last century brought the necessary technology and knowledge. The question is whether others in Europe respect the rules adopted is whether our media reports on illegal tuna capture say that the illegal market is booming. Because of the illegal trade in blue tuna is now required to control tuna harvests more strictly. Today is also an opportunity to talk about aquaculture in general, which is defined by EU Regulation 1380/2013. Aquaculture is a strategic branch in the Republic of Croatia and as such an integral part and other strategies. Domestic food is the largest wealth of a country, and this is exactly the food sector, and it employs a large number of people and is mainly connected to our rural and island areas. This is why fishing and aquaculture is of exceptional importance not only as an economic branch but also because of its tradition and cultural importance. In the register of fishing fleets of the Republic of Croatia, 4039 vessels are registered while the fishing vessels are 14% of the fishing fleet of the Republic of Croatia. Directly employs about 1400 people in the fish processing industry for around 3300, the total production in aquaculture is about 17,000 tonnes worth 100 million euros each year, with the cultivation of the white sea fish bark and mosquitoes covering almost 70% of the total value of production. Fishing has always had the social impact of the island and coastal population, and now it has come down to three, four large companies with corporate governance that conduct fisheries and aquaculture policy towards themselves completely neglecting the interests of the coastal and island population. It's also a question of fish placement, and we're witnessing that the wholesaler system doesn't work in a satisfactory way. There are many problems for more than two decades that we have been following in the wholesale system. The issue of the functioning of fish markets is certainly interested in both fishermen and all producers in the area of aquaculture. The European Commission states that 40% of the incentive funds are invested directly in aquaculture because they are aware of the fact that the catch cannot compensate for the growing needs of the European population. And where is the Croatian citizen in fish consumption? The high price of fish and the lack of cheap fish in the markets, for example, heartburn as well as low awareness of the importance of fish consumption results in the fact that Croatian citizens eat between 8 and 10 kg of fish annually while the European average is 25 kg per capita. We used to consume more fish from freshwater, including fish from ponds. Speaking of aquaculture, the question is that with the cultivation of freshwater fish in ponds across continental Croatia, as already stated in this assembly. Before the Homeland War, Croatia was the feather of freshwater fishing. The example before the war, 18,000 tons of freshwater fish production fell six times. It is a shame to note that the 2020 strategic chart is 5,000 tonnes for the cultivation of the freshwater freshwater species. It should be noted that large quantities of products in warfare are used to feed freshwater fish, so the family farms had a safe placement of their products and knew what to produce. In view of the European Green Plan and the promotion of shorter supply chains, it is necessary to launch activities related to the strengthening of freshwater fisheries that will encourage and develop other accompanying activities. So, ministry representatives tell the minister that she should not be locked up in her office in Vukovar, but goes out on the ground, talks to fishermen, talks to fish producers and in continental Croatia. Ask them what their problems are, draw up a strategy and action plans that encourage, as well as encouraging legislation for the production of not only bluefin tuna, which will mainly be eaten by the Japanese because we cannot afford pounds of tuna from 160 kuna to anywhere even 250 kuna per kilo. That is why fish farming should be encouraged both by the sea and freshwater that Croatian citizens will be able to afford at least twice a week. Before every major village in Croatia had its own agricultural fishing cooperative. Why isn't that any more? Encourage the cooperative and organisation of fishermen and manufacturers. Next time you come before the Croatian Parliament, don't just let the amendments to the EU rules be the reason for the amendments to the law, I guess in Croatia we have our own sense of how to help fishermen and producers in aquaculture in the Adriatic but also in continental Croatia. Do not change the law to get another kind of inspection, so we will now have inspection of fishing inspectors of authorised civil servants at the Ministry of Finance, but also veterinary and sanitary and agricultural inspectors and environmental protection, there will be no one to know who drinks, who pays in inspection. The SDP advocates' club will support these amendments to the law because they only refer to tuna production and quotas, but we propose for the next time representatives of the ministry to develop a comprehensive incentive legislative framework for aquaculture and otherwise for fisheries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8379	The next debate is on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, is missing, losing his right to debate. So comes the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8380	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary, Assistant Ministers, MPs and MPs with obligations arising from membership in the EU for the Republic of Croatia and relating to the harmonisation of our legal framework with the changes made to Union rules, and the majority of this act concerns tuna farming, this proposal will make it clear that the maximum amount of wild tuna caught which may be entered into the breeding sites in the field of the Republic of Croatia will be made available. A clearer definition of the authorisation to carry out aquaculture activities and the introduction of the possibility of partial suspension of the authorisation will facilitate users using several concession areas, administratively addressing the issue of authorisation. In addition, taking into account how farms of different species have different facilities and thus constructions owned by the Republic of Croatia or owned by natural or legal persons, the addition of articles relating to the conditions and performance of aquaculture activities should be interpreted as removing unnecessary administrative obstacles in the implementation of that activity. Significant changes have also been made to facilitate the traceability of tuna in cultivation, the labelling of breeding installations and the monitoring of activities at tuna growing sites, as well as the adaptation of this law to European regulations governing organic production and labelling of organic products. Tuna is one of the most prized sea fish, and for the Republic of Croatia it represents one of the most important export products. The Adriatic Sea is rich in young, immature tunas. In addition to the above, we also have favourable climate conditions and currents of the sea, and with the exception of catch, we also have great potential for economically viable caged tuna farming. As a result, the International Commission for the Conservation and Protection of Atlantic Tunas has allowed for further cargo purposes in cages to be extremely fished and tuna easier than 30 kg allowed. The maximum amount of tuna that can be grown in the Republic of Croatia shall be 7,880 tonnes per year and the maximum amount of tuna caught shall be 2,947 tonnes per year. We produce 3,200 tonnes of tuna every year and there is an important area to increase, and additional potential can also be recognised in the development of other tuna farming segments, which can affect the modernisation of the fishing fleet, the construction of ports and ports, and economic growth and employment of the local population. We are in the European frameworks ahead of a new financial period and a different way of implementing policies and thus a common fisheries policy. Research is our future and their application in the fisheries sector towards alternatives to nutrition and farming systems can affect the reduction of the cost of breeding and the reduction of fishing efforts. Here it is inevitable and mentions the importance of an approach that will respect the elements of sustainable development, as it often happens that in policy orientation we give priority to activities that show the current profit and whose long-term result is unpredictable. What we must not forget is that tuna can not live and polluted environments, so its cultivation depends greatly on the cleanness of the sea. This issue is very complex and requires the engagement of stakeholders of various sectors and the most important thing is to maintain natural processes in the sea and we are going back to the concept of sustainable development again. I therefore hope that the Aquaculture Act will have an incentive effect on the fish processing sector, especially tuna, because it is known that Croatia exports the most fresh, cooled and frozen bluefin tuna and imports canned tuna. All breeding tuna is still exporting to the Japanese market, although there has been an attempt to diversify the market towards China and the EU countries lately. The revenues from tuna exports are high, and we can tie the same to the quality and price that tuna achieves on export markets. Looking at the first three months. This year, according to HGK data, the surplus of the external trade balance for the fisheries sector has drawn close to 35m euros. On the other hand, the fact is that we export the best quality fish and very often we import fish that is not so high quality. Namely, only 10 to 15% of tuna caught in Croatia ends up on the Croatian market and tuna imports to the Republic of Croatia are about 6 000 tonnes per year. The real question is whether on the one hand we can create assumptions about exporting value-added products, and which would greatly affect the preservation of island rural communities through additional employment and, on the other hand, ensure greater consumption of domestic tuna on the domestic market. The average fish consumption in Europe according to the European Market Observatory for Fisheries and Aquaculture products is 25.5 kg per capita per year. Of course, there are differences between different Member States, so Portugal's consumption record is 55.3 kg per capita, but in most Member States consumption is below average. The fish consumption in Croatia is very low and according to the same source is only 18.4 kg per capita per year. Generally looking especially after the COVID 19 pandemic, the demand for domestic, locally produced agricultural and food products is growing. This trend is also present on the fish market and other seafood, so customers prefer to decide on the consumption of Croatian fish, which is positive. This time, which is challenging and difficult in itself, must be recognized as an opportunity for Croatian farmers and fishermen in order to achieve a easier placement of their products, but also as an opportunity for consumers whose availability of domestic products needs to be provided through short supply chains, and thus directly affecting both the more favourable price of products and availability, and indirectly and the reduction of transport costs and the reduction of adverse environmental impact. I will also stress the particular importance of product labelling as well as their traceability and reminding that the common organisation of the market for fishery and aquaculture products was the first component of a common fisheries policy which has set common market standards, information for consumers and producer organisations as key elements. Finally, by supporting these amendments to the law, I would like to invite all of our citizens to buy Croatian because Croatia is the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8381	Thank you. Dear representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8382	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, given these new crown measures and I cannot be at the same time in the assembly with my colleagues from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, So, can you hear me? [[What you say, you didn't say, I didn't understand what you wanted.]] So, given these new crown measures, I can't be at the Parliament with my clubmates, I'm two seconds late, I am, I'm late, but here, please. [[Intruder: Abort or what?]] for one small tolerance, if you can allow me to speak because it's simply not possible to make that transfer of people within that time limit as prescribed by these new coronary measures. [[You're not 2 seconds.]] If you could go out to meet, I'd be grateful.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8383	I can't do it and I haven't been two seconds, I've been waiting and I've been watching the assembly, you've been gone. I can't do business because it's not a matter of my own good will. [[Intruder Zekanovic: Okay, 4 seconds, okay. Can you or can't?]] It's not my goodwill. [[You can't, can you? Then I'm looking for a break.]] Here you go. [[Intruder Zekanovic: Then I'm looking for a break.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8384	My colleague, please, let me speak. So I'm looking for a break in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, at first of all about this law, and I'm going to say about it, but first I have to point out the intolerance of the man who runs this session, which is the vice president of the Parliament who, in four seconds while we change here, can't wait for me or allow me to speak and I think it's intolerant and that it shows here that HDZ is managing the Croatian Parliament and preventing democracy. And now on this subject, here I would like to commend the actual exposure of my colleague, Petyr, who is here as far as I can see, very well on the subject, unlike the secretary of state who didn't say these all the facts that my colleague Petyr has just said, and it would be good if we had heard it from your mouth. What is crucial, I would point out here, that Croatians do not eat Croatian tuna, that Croatians do not eat the most qualitative fish caught in the Croatian sea but that fish is exported. And I'm not saying that someone is against exports, but we need to find some institute that we don't buy garbage from Spain or I don't know, from Latin America, and we serve it to the Croats on the table because 80 or 90% of the fish that comes to Croatian tables is the third category, and the best fish from the Croatian sea, the freshest, freshest fish, we export and that's the biggest problem. Furthermore, I have to ask the question here, what about the protected economic fishing zone when we were fixing quotas? Is this belt because there are fishermen, almost exclusively Italians and our space, it is the space on which Croatia is left full sovereignty, did it enter the Italian or Croatian account? That's what I want to know. Is this space understood as a space and counting on the quotas of Croatian or Italian? That's not clear to me at all, I'd like the secretary of state to answer that here with, so while we're in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8385	I'm approving a break to 10 and 35, and I have to say, for the truth's sake, you weren't four seconds late. Secondly, there was no change because no one was sitting in your seat. At the beginning of this point you were there, you went out. So you haven't changed anyone or anyone else who, no one has changed you or you've changed someone, so incorrectly and incorrectly, and I can check it out on cameras that you're telling the truth and that you claim that we're having some kind of argument in that way. Up to 10 and 35 breaks. [[It's 10:32 p.m.]] [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 10.35 HOURS]] Stanka ended up, on behalf of the Association of State Movement Representative Ružica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8387	Dear Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. As reported by the applicant, the main objective of the adoption of this law is to bring the Aquaculture Act in line with the changes made to EU rules in the part relating to tuna farming. In the beginning, I will point out that the regulation to which the applicant is invited was adopted on 17 May 2017. The law on aquaculture was adopted in this high body also in 2017. The first amendment of the Aquaculture Act was made in 2018, so we are in line with EU rules as little as 3.5. Later. This law prescribes the amendments and additions of certain articles in order to establish provisions relating to the maximum capacity of tuna farming available to the Republic of Croatia and the maximum input quantity of wild tuna caught which may be introduced in breeding sites in the Republic of Croatia, determines the monitoring and performance of actions that will allow full traceability at tuna breeding sites, and the introduction of a vessel register in aquaculture. In certain articles, the existing or new items shall be amended for the purpose of more effective implementation of inspection supervision of tuna farming. The inspection is a separate topic, and I'm going to talk about it in the final presentation in front of the Homeland Movement Club. So, tuna as the most important representative of a group of large blue fish is under the management of the ICCAT and Croatia participates in the commission through its delegates, but also through EU delegates. In view of such a structure, the most important thing is for Croatia to represent our fishing industry's interests in fishing and tuna farming with a proactive policy, and in the most transparent way, to share the national quota with the participants in fishing. Also taught by the experience of the United States where more than 25% of the national quota was allocated to the sports recreational category because it was found that the value of tuna caught in sport recreational fishing was multiplely higher than that caught in the economic sector. In order to develop this high quality part of tourism, a part of this category of fishing should be increased since the current quota is almost negligible and without real impact. After discussions with representatives of organisations dealing with extraction and cultivation, we have received concrete proposals that could complement and make this proposal more effective. All proposals were submitted to the proposer on the Committee on Agriculture in the hope that they will be accepted, and here we will single out only some. Since marine fish farms on land require a concession procedure as well as the release of the sea, and sometimes a combination of the use of freshwater and seawater is necessary, it is necessary to provide that the user has issued appropriate acts to ensure the right to use landwater for the purpose of carrying out aquaculture activities in accordance with a specific regulation on water, or a specific regulation on agricultural land in the event of on-land cultivation, with the use of land or seawater. It is also necessary in addition to several, if someone does not grow on the marine good for more than 2 years, which is seen from the eyewitnesses themselves and the inspection on the ground, and is authorised to grow, through changes and additions to define the withdrawal of the licence. In addition to the withdrawal of the breeding licence, a proposal to withdraw the concession should also go because the same maritime good does not benefit the economy, and the budget of the Republic of Croatia loses funds. Therefore, the user remains obliged only to pay fixed compensation. In particular, it is necessary to regulate the possibility of experimental cultivation, especially for the cultivation of shellfish and other marine organisms other than fish, in order to define the benefits of aquaculture. So this is where it gets into the concession law, too. It is necessary to enable the pilot to grow smaller gauges as well as various technical technological solutions in the preparation itself. It is important to enable the protection of shellfish and other marine organisms from predators in such a way as to allow the setting of an obstacle to cultivation as well as fishing in the area of concession by fishing authorisation holders. In doing so, unless the breeder himself is also a fishing authorisation authority, a contract shall be concluded between the concessionaires and the authorising officer with the consent of the competent ministry. It is necessary to define and enable the periodic use of the concession area for the rest of the locality in the event of the demarcation of farming. The fishermen complained among other things about the problem of the distribution of tuna quotas between fishermen and breeders, as well as the difficulty in obtaining concessions. As shrubs and mainly insufficiently accurate data show, the share of the entire fisheries sector in the gross domestic product of the Republic of Croatia does not exceed 1%. On the other hand, the impact and importance of fishing in Croatia, especially for coastal and island populations, is not adequately measured because, according to research, at least 10,000 people are directly employed in fisheries. In accordance with some other Member States where the number of directly employed fishermen is multiplied by 10 to obtain the number of persons dependent on the fishing industry, that number also goes up to 100,000 people who depend on the state of the fishing industry. It is therefore clear that this segment of industry deserves a clear strategy with very precise objectives and deadlines for achieving them. I am taking the opportunity to point out that, apart from formal strategies, Croatia has not had the right and professionally defined fisheries strategy since its creation, it is clear that an urgent strategy must be made, which will cover all aspects of the fishing industry, and define the importance of fishing not only for the coastal and island populations but also for the complementary industry, especially tourism. Furthermore, it is necessary to simplify the rules and make use of all the opportunities provided for by the EU Common Fisheries Policy, making it easier for fishermen to carry out fishing more easily while respecting responsible fishing measures. For the end, I would like to highlight the importance of clearly defined development and the aquaculture industry and aquaculture. Both branches of the fishing industry have similar problems, specifically lack the diversification of products because fishermen are mostly focused on the production, more or less, less canned salt fish, and in aquaculture the situation is even worse because only a few species of fish are grown, with a rarely complete cycle of production from ikra to finished products, and it is similar to that in shellfishing. In doing so, breeders are additionally burdened with local policies that mainly prevent the development of aquaculture by limiting the intended areas. The problem of local policy is also expressed in other areas of fishing production because local priorities generally do not have any touch points with national priorities, which is quite absurd. Therefore, the creation of a comprehensive fisheries industry strategy which would then be respected and managed by the whole state, but also by the local administration, is imposed as a logical and necessary solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8388	Dear Representative Miro Bulj will debate on behalf of the club of representatives of the independent lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8389	Thank you very much. Here, we have yet another harmonisation of the regulation, we coordinate the regulations daily, we harmonize the directives with Croatian legislation, essentially in the application of and in the aquaculture of this law, essentially in terms of fisheries, Croatia has the resources to have a perspective of development, but all we bring here is whether it is against the interest of the fisherman himself. When we talk about tuna and this harmonisation from inspection to concession, to the preservation of the environment can be discussed in a long and wide way but the fact is that our Adriatic, our sea, we haven't protected enough otherwise and without economy, fish management so that the declaration of the exclusive economic belt in this assembly is on several occasions in the past term my club, MOST Club proposed, unfortunately most of the Croatian Parliament was against, so our economic team. The fish fund, the Italian fishing fleets are destroying our literally weapons, defending our submarine because we don't have the strength and courage to stand up to the lobbys within the Republic of Croatia that are good for this case to the Italians and others. Which is why, now the question is raised, the secretary of state will have nothing to say about it but the fact that the government of Andrej Plenkovic did not want to support it. As for fish, as far as tuna itself is concerned, here are the amendments to the law, and all you have said is that in the public consultation of the HGK we have several objections. I would like the secretary to say the reasons why it was not accepted, or I would like it to be a little wider and wider, and to say that probably people who deal with this business know a little more about their needs. None of us are against the management, the allocation of quotas, concessions, but indeed the Republic of Croatia, our citizens per capita use 10 kg of fish annually. EU, Europe, i.e. The average is about 25 even has kg per capita, in Portugal is an example of 50 kg. And we have the resources and potentials that we're going to use if we're talking about sea fishing, and I asked you about freshwater, because we're talking about broad food here, freshwater, I'm talking about the largest fish farm in Europe that's been destroyed because of three things, privatisation, debt, bankruptcy. And you said that on my question. However, the resource that was created in '81. In the year, the Ruda farm is a river along the river, the river Cetina tributary has 240 swimming pools of which is 100 yards and we import fish, and several years ago it was literally closed that fish farm from the river Cetina in Ruda so that those people living there in the municipality of Dalmatinski near Sinj, to oppose, to send letters that this resource was made in '81. In the year, I repeat, 800 tonnes was the capacity of this trout that was raised in the clear, clear river Rudi, I would like those who came to the Cetina end to visit this place that was literally empty, there were 40 people and memos to the ministry, to you in the ministry, to the prime minister, to these people, to the people of that municipality, to the head of the municipality, to the council, to do nothing, and of course to move people out of that area. The literally part of the village of Ruda has no water supply, and since then is powered by the entire Split swimming pool, have a fish farm of 240 swimming pools, the largest fish farm in Europe is now in, communally devastated, yet not, can be saved, there is a river flowing and there is nothing, we don't produce anything. So we have in freshwater and marine this economic development to enable our people. I know this law applies to tuna, I know this is a regulation we prescribe, but we're only 1% of our fish economy, from fish. So look at how much.../incomprehensible/... The Italians, we didn't have the strength and courage to actually protect our resources. I've spoken to fishermen who have their own, of course, smaller fleets, they can't catch, they're not allowed where Italians hunt. I've been to the Tribune with people who have their own, fight, fight, even one family, fight so sacrificedly, but it's hard to survive. It's hard to survive our fisherman on our sea. Because you from the ministry favor Italian fleets, and this Parliament has no power to declare.../incomprehensible/... the full application of an exclusive economic belt rather than some strange beak then directed by Seks during Sanader's ecological ZERP, protected... fishing belt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia has the right to international law in '82. declare the IGP after the UN Convention. We have the right to international law. The Council of Europe orders Croatia to protect our, our Adriatic, our fish fund. International territorial waters, not give us Italians with their fleets literally defending, destroying flora and fauna and the fish fund. And in this House in the last term, on two occasions, they didn't have the strength to support it. I don't know what the reason for most colleagues is, I don't know why, but I know we're devastationing our resources. I know we're devastationing them and letting strangers devastate them, endangering our fish fund that we can master, and now we're cheating on some EU regulations. It's about tuna, it's about concession, it's about inspection, it's about ecology, it's about what, and basically you in the ministry have done so much damage to our fishermen, for the Croatian economy that they're immeasurable, they're historically immeasurable because they've affected the demographic downturn, to the departure of people out, to other countries, to third countries. Because our resources and potentials, both in marine waters and in freshwater, fishing could have been one of the stronger branches in the Republic of Croatia. We are ecologically preserved still have nature, our resources, that we do not refer to our culture, tradition, history, our own, that's different. Nothing is the problem, the SDSS Chief of Civilians and HDZ Deputy Civilians come and crash the 15th century flat bridge on the river Cetina. There you have no problem or role model Cetina, you are worried about the trout and the history of Croatia. You want to delete it, you want to delete it. And you won't, you'll return that flat bridge and the SDSS and HDZ, you'll return it, I tell you. There's a protest Saturday. These are messages that people see from these areas. The messages are to erase history and tradition, that our resources that the Croatian people in the Homeland War have defended, and for centuries tried to preserve under various tyrannys, greater damage you do than all the occupiers, from Turks to here. So what fascists, what Serbian kings, what communists, nothing. Fishing grounds in Ruda, 240 swimming pools the largest in Europe in trout production, devastated, robbed, and you haven't had solutions in years. How you don't have a solution. Well, that solution is crucial, not only will we produce healthy fish and Croatians will not eat frozen fish imported from the EU who knows what and how they are fed and where they are farmed. But you'll leave these people to work here, to work in my cetin area, I don't know in other parts, in the coast, in Slavonia from the river, irrelevant. We don't have the strength and courage and the courage to protect our resources. No one will ever be able to explain to me why Croatian, HS has no power to declare IGP, full application, except that we listen to European officials and please their lobbyes. We have to do this. We can talk about the regulation.../incomprehensible/... regulation European this, which we are implementing here on tuna. About concessions, I said, everything, food, this one, that one. However, the fact is that our policy, the politics of the Croatian authorities, the competent ministry is the most harmful to our fish management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8390	We are going to individual debates, the first distinguished representative of Ljubomir Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8391	Dear Vice-President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to welcome the amendments to the aquaculture law. It is certainly necessary to bring the existing rules in line with the teaching amendments to EU rules. The rules relating to tuna farming are particularly regulated here because we heard and we know that tuna is probably the most successful Croatian export story in the area of food. A aquaculture sector in which we record continued growth in production. I also agree that this is a step further towards the quality of our products because we strengthen inspection capacity and take away the parameters that will allow the traceability of the product we so insist on. Croatia is unfortunately a large importer of food, and our external trade deficit is about a billion euros. On the other hand, in the fisheries sector, we record a surplus in the trade in goods, where the export of aquaculture participates with a large share of 45%. According to guidelines and strategic guidelines, in fact, for the sustainable development of aquaculture in the EU, interesting data have been found, that out of the total consumption of EU fisheries products 65% is imported from third countries and 35% from the EU countries and the Eu origins, 25% of which comes from fisheries and only 10% from aquaculture. Since it is a proposal for marine resources and the catch quotas are becoming less and less, the only way to compensate for the lack of production of fisheries and aquaculture, i.e. breeders, Croatia has a great chance and potential to further develop and increase the exports of aquaculture products. But I hope that this law is simply the predecessor of two things that are both important and important, which are development strategies for agriculture and aquaculture because this kind of organisation, control, cleanliness in production, cultivation is needed throughout agricultural production. The real strategy would increase productivity and climate resilience of agricultural production, strengthen the competitiveness of the business environment of the agricultural, fisheries business system and make great assumptions for the restoration of the rural economy and improve the life and standard in the rural area that we all seek to raise this rural area to a higher level. In this way, all measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the previous term and now, measures already taken by an increase in the number of farmers, increase in direct payments users, measures that rejuvenate Croatian farmers would be visible. Agriculture is part of the national identity, and therefore we cannot leave it aside, we need to raise it with new strategies and aquaculture and agriculture to a higher level, and this law and amendments to the law I very much support.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8392	Next debate, distinguished representative Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8393	Dear, regarding today's topic, it is necessary to ask the question of who is representing Croatian fishermen? In the EU producer organisations are seen as crucial in achieving all the objectives set out in the common fisheries policy and the common market for fisheries and aquaculture products. Therefore, fishermen as food producers are also organised into professional associations of manufacturers who as members have professional fishermen and their companies and crafts, fishing cooperatives and all other fishing entities participating in the fishing industry. The European Maritime and Fisheries Fund has allocated a good part of its resources to just such professional associations as they consider them vital to the development and strengthening of the fishing industry. Such professional associations, in which fishermen and fishing entities join on a voluntary basis, are the real representatives of fishing production and may, therefore, depend on them and their objectives, cobblers’ associations, swimmers' associations, shrimp organisations or, for example, individual islands, etc., communicate with national, national and European administrations, expressing the interests of their members independent of politics. Contrary to such a common organization, the real representatives of fishermen do not even exist. All current so-called. The representatives of the fishing sector come as representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or as representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which, with the right representation of fishermen according to European and world standards, has nothing to do with the fact that both chambers are semi-state organisations and it turns out that the state is talking to itself. A particular problem with us is that membership in these chambers is mandatory for fishermen and, accordingly, the voice of fishermen does not have any particular weight in articulating the attitudes which both of these chambers should convey to the state administration since there is no system of responsibility where the job is responsible. In addition, both chambers are heavily affected by politics, which is mainly contrary to the legal interests of our fishermen. Such a system of fisheries organisations has existed since the Croatian state's draft and since then nothing has changed, not even the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU. In a publication funded by the EU or by the European Parliament, which has been made by Scottish fishermen called "The Status of the Fishing Industry and the Relations with Lawmakers" the comparison between Scotland and Croatia is clearly apostrophe of the problem of the real representatives of fishermen in Croatia and it is pointed out that such a system is very bad because it does not allow the representation of the true interests of fishermen. So today's entire system of organising our fishermen is rightly called the system that is the legacy of the communist past. Therefore, fishermen should be freed from mandatory membership in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and help organise them in the producer association specifically using the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8394	Next debate, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8395	Thank you very much. This law, as I have said, is the harmonisation of the Regulation on aquaculture in essence of the prescription of regulations and directives and every day, I don't know how much we now sign the regulations and the EU directive in one term, and in fact the application is zero and there are no effects on the development in this case of fisheries, aquaculture activities, and there is also no agriculture. The Croatian state is a state, this is about tuna law, harmonisation, and I don't know what not, concessions in general or anyone who asks fishermen, and if Croatia continues to have fishermen like this soon. At this point, the Republic of Croatia has never again imported in agriculture in total and in fisheries over 3 billion euros, and has never exported less, never again been given incentives by farmers, fishermen. And who does that go to? Whoever, for example, goes to neither fishermen nor farmers, but to those who mix that money that should be used for the development of villages and islands and the Republic of Croatia. That's the key question when we talk. We will vote on this office, on this change, we will talk about it all the best and on the environment, the environmental impact of tuna, which feeds tuna, which we eat, but in the RH resources we have, I repeat the resources we have, we don't use them. We did not have the strength and courage to declare an exclusive economic belt, first of all to complete ourselves with European officials, and this was in the case of Eve Sanader and then in the previous government because The Hague then pressured us to complete the Hague, then we did not have the strength to declare the exclusive economic belt, while the arrest, location, transfer and process that Shaks's old statement to the Croatian general i.e. Croatian soldiers who freed the Croatian homeland at the time we gave it again, to all to compete with our masters our fish fund in our area. And also when we talk about fishing again I will repeat fish production, freshwater fishing we have conditions from Slavonia to Prevlaka, we have numerous rivers, we have opportunities, we have even built resources, we have this potential that we need to use in the economy. I repeat, in the Cetina region, we have the largest fish farm in Europe that's been torn apart, produced in '81. The year was torn apart, first privatized, so it's in charge and now, of course, it's in bankruptcy. That's where 40 people worked. Do you know how much this means for that area of 40 people who have the capacity of the farm was 800 tons of trout fish, domestic trout. We import, hey, we import frozen fish, who knows what they feed, how they feed, and what we eat. And here I'm asking a key question, why is this capacity, of 240 swimming pools of which is 100 for the fish's nest, and the rest for fish farming, why don't we start it, why don't we start it? You know what it means in the Chetino area, the Dalmatian burns in my county, Dalmatia 40 jobs. And what it means for all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are at the bottom of the fish using 10kg per capita, the European average is 25kg. I said Portugal 50kg per capita eats fish per year, per capita. Well, look where we are. We have all the conditions for food production, and we never imported again. Why? Is the vermin within the ministries working for import lobbys, pests. And these laws that we prescribe, we just prescribe them to brag about how we Europeans have aligned here with the tie and the department, we've harmonised everything, and it's basically appropriate to import lobbys. Not just in fisheries and agriculture, so in livestock, so in all segments. So how is it possible that our meadows are empty, our farms are empty? Well, it's easy because it's empty than two-thirds of Croatia is being evicted because of such a policy. Our fisherman now hunts in foreign seas while foreign fish and our farmer and peasant digs another man's land, and ours is under the weeds, and that's the problem of the ministry gentlemen. I've had enough of you and your decorations for five years.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8396	There is one replica of the esteemed representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8397	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, I think you've noticed this very well, especially if it's a good guess for some lobbies, it's obvious. You have the Maggle case in Osijek where 160 workers were on the drum, say so colloquial, we have some unofficial announcements that part of the production will remain, won't it, but what does it mean for 160 workers, for co-operatives for the entire dairy production in Slavonia? She's on her knees, just like fishing is what you were talking about. Now, the good question is why is it that, why does it care to create an atmosphere that doesn't suit entrepreneurship, doesn't favour production, doesn't suit people to stay and live from their work, we talk first of all about agriculture here?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8398	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8399	Your question is the answer. Croatia has never given for incentives again, and we do not have essentially dairy production we literally destroyed it, and that is what my colleague will say if she is dealing with it and I was part of it, so we destroyed dairy production, our meadows. We give incentives, for example. In the karst area people who literally don't know what a cow looks like, it's... so I said they don't know how many cows have tits, literally huge money. It's possible, they all respect the Ministry, they give all those funds where they should be given, but who? Who? Well, we can never give any more incentives is unreasonable, and we don't have dairy production, import everything to import from milk to milk products, and so on into the fish fund. So what makes two-thirds of Croatia empty? Because of them. What we are making these regulations, every day they release regulations and directives, and he comes here, decorated under this chandelier, telling us a fairy tale here, and here we are in harmony with the EU, we're going to live all of a sudden. Two-thirds of Croatia is empty, and we can easily compare this. Take a look at agriculture since we joined the EU to this day, and you'll see that it's all a hoax and what we're copying. Why? Because we don't use it, and it's suitable for import lobbys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8400	The distinguished representative Marijana Puljak is the next individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8401	I thank the chairman. Just a moment, I'd just like to point out, briefly on two, two things about this, about these amendments to the law. So this harmonisation with the EU directives is logical whether it is to strengthen the capacity of control over this whole, of aquaculture, and two things that you would like to point out that are not part of these changes, and perhaps they should have been included. So the first thing is growing so-called. alochton species or species not locally present with us. The law therefore provides that if such species that can be grown here, but often predatory species are grown, and then there is a problem when getting out of cages and endangering our eco system, perhaps it should go in the direction of the law to specify that these habitats are natural, so they can't be grown just by indigenous species, and these so-called so-called autochthonous species. sides and locally absent to be grown in so-called. Closed to these systems on land is there today a technology that allows such a way of growing and then ours whether it is natural, the natural environment would not be at risk of spreading such species. Another thing that has been said by a colleague Vukovac, so who represents our fishermen or formal fishermen today have the status of craftsmen whether, this occurred after the founding of Croatia in '92, '93. So the fishermen have the status of craftsmen today, or they are forced and they are forced to pay mandatory membership in both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce, in some ways the hostages are whether these associations are even rarely able to decide on matters concerning fishermen. Let me just tell you that they're in a group of hairdressers, with hurricanes, with taxi drivers, fursters, is there any place for fishermen to go and what they're constantly calling for to be treated, to be treated like O.P.G.s? So why don't you at the Ministry of Agriculture actually treat our fishermen, fish growers also as OPGs. After several times we heard here in the assembly, and here I asked the prime minister, so he reacted sharply, so certainly not just fishermen, but all others, to release mandatory membership fees in the Chamber of Commerce and crafts. And what these chambers should actually become, and it is indeed the service providers of those who value these services and want to pay them voluntarily, not the Pharaohs. Here, just a quick two notes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8402	Final debate on behalf of the Association of MPs of the Homeland Movement, the distinguished representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8403	Thank you very much. So, as I announced in my earlier presentation in this final part of the final part in front of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, I would like to talk about the implementation of inspection supervision over tuna farming. Therefore, Article 37(2) of the Aquaculture Act defines that an appeal for a solution is not permitted but can be initiated by an administrative dispute. The State Inspectorate Act on the conduct of the inspector shall be authorised. Obviously, these two laws are in collegiate and who knows which times we lack inter-resor coordination in the adoption of regulations, which will again say that the Law on the Impact Assessment of Regulations is not respected. But what worries me far more is the fact that 500 million people living at EU level are guaranteed the right to appeal. Only Croatian fishermen, Croatian farmers have no right to do so. Why does the Ministry of Agriculture insist on the possibility of secondary protection guaranteed by the Constitution the right of all EU citizens, but not to the Croatian farmer and not to the fisherman. From the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement we ask you to deliver an opinion or answer to this crucial question. A crucial issue that we can equate our fishermen with all other fishermen within the EU, but we keep refusing to do so. On these examples, we see clearly how much the Ministry of Agriculture, how much it really cares about farmers, fishermen, food producers, those who finance their hard work, is the pleasant lives of us politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8404	Next final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8405	Here I would just say on behalf of the club that I expect from, all the questions the MPs have asked to finally give the State Secretary's answer. It is unreasonable if we Parliamentarians are often talking about the problem of agriculture, fishing in the essence of Minister Vukkovic's portfolio, which is why she is not here today, but she was certainly in the past term and in this, so she is much more trained and would have a lot to say, but obviously the assembly does not represent something significant and that she answers us parliamentary representatives to these issues, mainly on this amendment to the Law on aquaculture where mostly changes in tuna production are being made which is significant. Of course, it is important, but I will say once again that the secretary of state so take this to the minister and tell her that you will now answer these questions. How is it possible that in the Republic of Croatia this potential, it is familiar with it, as I repeat again, the aquaculture site in Ruda, the Island of Sinj, the Cetin region, the island of Dalmatia near Sinj the largest in Europe, which is why, where the cleanest water is, it is a source in the vicinity that is important for demographics in the area, you know what 40 people mean, why this pond doesn't work? The fact that he's been robbed, privatized, robbed, and this one's in bankruptcy, that's what we know. But why are we interested in the potential of 240 pools where trout fish can be grown? Why don't the state, all your tools, this and just know why? And because of the concession law, do these concessionaries have no obligation, they only have a profit, and the state assumes obligations, and that's the problem with the concession law. We see that now and in the new rules, and even on the protected natural goods, these days we will talk about it. So because it favored the concessionaries with no risks, all the risk was in the state. And now such a resource while we import fish instead of promoting our younger generations we eat our domestic Croatian fish, drink our homemade milk, eat our homemade fruit. It's unreasonable and I don't understand how we've never given incentivizations again, never imported again. Can you explain that form? We never gave any more incentives in agriculture, this, that, and we never imported any food products again. Why is the increase in tumours and severe diseases? Well, for the sake of food, I'm sure our fields aren't modeled, and in our seas, other people's fishers hunt, that's why, and we're importing their scissors and garbage frozen. And on this trial we're going to build, you have to give solutions, solutions. But we can't have solutions if we as HS don't have the strength to declare what we have by international law, according to the '72 UN Convention. to declare the full application of the IGP, not that our fisherman is difficult to survive in our area because Italian fish, fleets, I repeat, defend our submarine, destroy fish funds, destroy and that is it. And that's why I'm interested, we've entered the EU, we've entered NATO, so never again emigrating, never more demographic fall, never less milky, never less cattle, never less, so what's it about? Are we wrong here or are we every day, I repeat, under these lights every day as people's representatives, copying EU directives and regulations? What's the problem? Why have we never imported again than today and tomorrow we will be more than EUR 3 billion in food products? Why? 800,000 hectares of agricultural land are unprocessed. In my Dalmatia alone, 200,000 acres, 11 million inhabitants could wound my Dalmatia only without Slavonia. Why? I'm asking the Ministry of Agriculture, why? Il is enough to say this is an honor to the EU regulation, it's Juncker, Tusk, whatever you don't write, we're going to give it a lipo copy, so it's a shame. We're looking for solutions from the executive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8406	On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Zdravko Tušek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8407	Thank you, Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable and Honorable MPs and MPs. Let me finally address with a few words and answers to the questions asked here. There was a question of tuna farming in the full cycle, from younger to, to finally catch, such cases are still missing in the world, there are no, certain attempts were made in Japan itself, so that the moment scientific research and economic evidence is possible it will also be possible in Croatia. This law does not prevent such a thing if an entrepreneur or investor realizes that something like that can work. When we talk about self-employment, I am glad that certain parliamentary representatives and MPs have noticed that. The number of employees in aquaculture and fisheries is growing year by year. If we look at the same way that we have a growth in the value of this production and these economic branches then we can say that the legislative framework is something that allows this sector to move forward. There were also talks here about communication itself and representatives of fishermen. The Ministry of Agriculture is open to communication to all those, with all those interested in improving the system of fisheries, the system of aquaculture, as well as all agriculture and rural areas in Croatia, and in this context it talks and is open to all representatives of the public government, as well as to the specific entrepreneurs and farmers themselves. So the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, as well as the representatives of fishermen have open doors and can communicate with the ministry itself. I must also mention that several years ago and a number of flags have been launched that are concrete representatives who propose and in some way run development strategies so-called. from the community towards, towards the top and also we have very good results on this issue. The issue of strategic commitment was also mentioned here. As I'm sure you've been informed for a year and a half, the Ministry of Agriculture has launched two strategic documents, one is a strategy of agriculture, and the other is a strategy of fisheries and aquaculture. These documents are in the final phase, in the coming weeks they will be in public debate. What is certainly important to mention, in both documents of the Ministry of Agriculture, I believe that all the public will support it, too, has been determined primarily to address the issue of self-sufficiency of agricultural production. Also important economic growth, but we also need to remember that the issue of preserving rural areas is of all importance. I must mention here that, in addition to these documents in the final phase, there is an operational programme for maritime and fisheries that will also be in public debate by the end of this year, in some ways it is already in line with the European Commission and I believe that in the public debate we will all come together to clear and concrete solutions how this sector will improve. What I must say is that the European Commission has announced EUR 240 million in envelopes for the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, which is in some way at the level of the previous and will continue to enable the development and growth of this sector. If we add to this other funds in agriculture, it means direct payments and rural development in the total amount at constant prices from 2018. At EUR 4.9 billion, then we can say that indeed all those working to improve this sector are doing everything possible to make our farmers, fishermen, better, more efficient and for the whole economy to be better. When we talk about everything else, we must first of all say that this law is first of all a step towards further harmonisation with the EU acquis. We need to know that certain segments mentioned here are also subject to the common market, so all that the ministry does is primarily a better position and position of Croatian fishermen, but also all entrepreneurs dealing with aquaculture. I'll take a quick look at the ore farm that was mentioned here. This farm was authorised this year for production, according to our information the production was launched, by the end of the year when the obligation to submit or produce it will have information on all this. I must also mention that a whole series of measures available to entrepreneurs, in this case and those managing this farm, are available as well as all services of the Ministry of Future Investment and for the launch and modernisation of production. The figures are inexorable, they show that exactly the use of the European funds, I mentioned here what the amounts are, show that all these sectors have their perspective and in some way to record the continued growth of the sector and fisheries, and in particular aquaculture. And for the end, I will look back at this law. In view of the strategic commitment of the Republic of Croatia to further growth and development of aquaculture, including tuna farming, which has a significant share in the value of export production to changes, and given the changes to European regulations governing the control of this activity, the need to amend and supplement the Aquaculture Act has been imposed in order to create the necessary framework for the implementation of these regulations. The proposal for a law clearly lays down how the maximum capacity of tuna farming is determined to be available to the Republic of Croatia and the maximum input quantity of wild tuna caught which may be introduced into the breeding site in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Given that the capacity available to the Republic of Croatia has so far been significantly higher than the need, there was no need at this time for the adoption of the Aquaculture Act to introduce specific management measures for these facilities. As the number of tuna growers in the Republic of Croatia increased in the meantime, and given that tuna quotas are on a steady rise, the need for the adoption of a regulation laying down the management method for those facilities, as provided for in this law, has been established. In view of the introduction of new measures for the control of tuna farming and their placing on the market for the purpose of enabling their implementation, new measures shall also be imposed on tuna growing sites to allow for complete control and traceability, thus also a better price on the market for these products. And in this way, tuna farming and their placing on the market will fully comply with all EU rules to allow for further strengthening of competition on the world market. The proposal for a law will also allow for much more effective control of the implementation of the Aquaculture Act in such a way as to give powers to the same inspection post within the framework of the State Inspectorate. And lastly, thanks to all the MPs and MPs on the table, we can tell the shortcomings and suggestions. We will try to adopt all concrete and enforceable proposals for a second reading and thank you once again for the constructive debate and proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8408	We have three replicas, the first distinguished representative of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8409	Dear Secretary of State, you said a number of strategies were being done, I think that in the Republic of Croatia how much strategy was made and how much money was spent for it that we could increase the stock fund, bring it back to be the strongest in Europe. Where you're with these free strategies of pleasure, where this one is, you're putting off, how much of this building is, and the strategies that have been done so far. Every year, the same strategy, the same strategy. I'm curious. Here's a question. What about the farm trout in, on the river, in, on the river Rudi i.e. in Ruda, which is the largest in Europe that has been destroyed, robbed and devastated, which has been bankrupt, where 40 people have worked, produced trout, healthy food, is now a municipal mess there, I ask you what's going on with the farm, is this going to start on Ruda, the largest farm in Europe? And you're talking to me about strategy again. Every year a strategy, so how many have you made so far, where are those strategies? If you have a building that you've archived, there'll be a building bigger than the skyscrapers of any of them at dawn. solve the problem, open the aquaculture sites [[Intruder: Time]] It's you, representing the country. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8410	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8411	Dear Parliamentarians, MP, as I was saying earlier, I mentioned this in the final word, and I believe that you also know that the Croatian agriculture strategy was not made in 2002. and that the current Ministry of Agriculture has launched this strategy to clearly define which direction Croatian agriculture will develop, as well as aquaculture itself. And as for the particular farm, in this final word, I made it clear that the ministry did everything to issue all the necessary permits and whoever currently owns it or who manufactures it started manufacturing. Also, all possible measures are available to a future investor who can further invest, which, from European means, comes from the Croatian budget and can appear in a tender and in some way enable the development of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8412	.../ The Ministry is... /... the next replica of the esteemed representative Hajdukovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8413	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Tušek, we will finally see this strategy for the development of agriculture. The first time I talked about it with former Minister Tolusic was in 2016, if I'm not mistaken and then he said here's the thing we're about to bring, we're doing a fine print, we're grinding some details, 4 years later you're telling me the same thing. Without a clear strategy, strategic thinking where we go with agriculture, including fishing, we won't get far. And why is that? First, that we know where we are going and what we want with agriculture, which branches we want to strengthen, which we want to develop, and secondly because of the EU, national development strategies and operational programmes related to agriculture and how and where we will direct the money from the envelope we have. So, I welcome it finally, I hope we see the strategy now in line with your statement and I look forward to seeing what it says.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8414	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8415	Thank you very much, esteemed parliamentary representative. As I said in the final word, the strategy for the development of agriculture, as well as the strategy for the development of aquaculture, is in the final phase, and they are also in line with the national development strategy, and as far as the term.../incomprehensible/... future planning and adoption of this strategy is very clearly in line with the adoption of an operational programme for maritime and fisheries, which, as I said, is in the final phase, and also with the creation of a strategic plan for agriculture, which is a future document that will replace the current rural development programme, so that, as I said, all these documents are in line and as I said, I call on all of you to public debate on the documents themselves so that they are all brought together by consensus and in some way all of participating in the implementation of this strategy in the future 10-year period.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8416	The last replica of the esteemed representative, Dario Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8417	Thank you. Here, Your Honor, I'd just like to reflect on the few sentences you've said. So first and foremost, it should be pointed out that those countries that are otherwise self-sufficient are usually the poorest in the world. As far as the crisis itself is concerned, as far as I've noticed, there was no stock in the shops or anything about agriculture. And also, this whole policy here, we're talking about development strategies, meaning agriculture or any part that's related to agriculture, don't you think that for the last 20 years, how much we've been throwing and burning money through subsidies, that it's still one completely wrong direction, and all the time something's delayed. It's in your stores, say, there was no toilet paper and germs, and yet there were rows in front of the store or in front of the bakery, so obviously we're in something like that. Don't you think we should go in some direction to make a lot less regulation and that the State Inspectorate shouldn't serve as a particular racket, especially here for the poor. You have examples of us talking about self-sufficiency, and when you're a man roasting brandy, then we limit it to the amount he can make. I'm just saying it as one example, but please, here's to me just [[Intruder: Time.]] offer some of your own, your vision of it all. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8418	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8419	Thank you very much, esteemed parliamentary representative. As I have already said, the strategic documents at the Ministry of Agriculture will be held in public debate. All the measures we will take will also be subject to public debate, I believe that we will all be able to bring together by consensus, and then finally, in this House, what we want from Croatian agriculture and aquaculture in the future, that certain measures that have been taken over the past period, when we talk about the rural development programme and all other measures of the current government, we can only conclude that the value of agricultural production is growing back 4 years. That four and a half years ago, we had the value of agricultural production at 14, at 14 billion today, or over the past year, it has been estimated at some 17 billion. All these investments that have been invested during this programming period, above all from the rural development programme will certainly produce certain results and they give them and we can draw that from this data.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8420	Thank you. We've exhausted the entire debate, I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Thank you. We've exhausted the entire debate, I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. The following point is: - Report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2019, She is the Advocate for Gender Equality on the basis of Article. 22. Gender equality laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. The government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? The Honorable Advocate for Gender Equality Višnja Ljubicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8423	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Let us present the first report before the new meeting of HS and present what the Ombudsman institution for gender equality was doing during 2019 in areas in charge of the Law on Gender Equality, which is the primary area of work, employment, social security, family, parental care, family violence, political participation, education and media. Of course, according to discriminatory grounds which also enters the area of the Law on Gender Equality as well as the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, it is about discrimination on the basis of gender, marital, family status, including motherhood, sexual orientation and gender identity. As an independent institution, we are in charge of overseeing the work of state and public institutions, legal persons in the area of the application of the constitutional principle of gender equality and full legislation relating to equal opportunities, equal rights of men and women, and we are also in charge of monitoring all laws created at the level of the executive authority and adopted by the legislative body. I must say that, within our competences during 2019, we worked on a total of 1,700 items, of which about 500 were related to concrete cases of discrimination. We have worked in parallel with our activities and on 2 European projects that are 2 out of 4 European projects that we have prepared and received in the framework of EU grants and that we have therefore implemented activities in the field of family violence femicid, and the other project was related to the pay gap and pension gap. So, on the basis of discrimination, the complaint continues to refer to a significant number of sexual discrimination, and this takes part in over 86% of the cases, most of the cases are violations of women's rights in over 73% of the cases, but I would say in all areas that it is more than 2/3 of the majority where complaints are related to violations of women's rights. In the areas of discrimination in the last 10 years, the most Turbulent area has been our work, employment, social security and pension status, and here we have 2 to 4 statistical points yearly. Right now, it's a 46% share of all complaints. We also had our suspicions of committing a crime, so we reported five cases to the State's Attorney's office, and we also reported one case. As in recent years, the trend of respecting the warning that is our only means has been maintained, so there is no repression like there is no in any independent ombudsman institute at global level. So respecting our decisions completely in 89% of cases. The complaints that women most often complain about in the field of labour, employment and social security are facing the 2 biggest obstacles and recent years of analysis in this area on our sample that we process through individual cases, as well as statistics that we receive from the State Department of Statistics and the Employment Office is that women are most often on the labour market facing obstacles related to the achievement of motherhood and related to home. They are said to be too young or too old to get a job, to hold a certain position, and that is something we see from year to year, and regarding motherhood we get a series of complaints about where they were put into an unfavourable position either as pregnant women, whether as a child or as mothers who returned from maternity leave, especially if they had achieved more pregnancy. What was our activity, and it was precisely the case of these mothers, employees of companies where the bankruptcy procedure was concluded during which they used birth and parent support rights, led to the employer’s entry into bankruptcy, women who were on maternity leave and parental leave staying in the airless space. So they were not registered to HZZ, to HZZ, they were not reported to be employees of that employer anymore, and they were left without certain rights where they had to return certain funds of the monthly benefits they received from the health insurance base and I must say that we responded to both the government and the resolution ministry where they were adopted, so the government decided to take care of them and to take into account the status of the employees of the concrete bankruptcy employers, but also the Resord Ministry of Justice followed the proposal that there would be an amendment to the bankruptcy law to include such a social group that could come really into a discriminatory position. Statistical indicators on male users of maternity and parental leave and compensation suggest a slight and slight increase in male users compared to women, but we also need to look at the correlation of this statistics of the Republic of Croatia compared to other EU members. So the Republic of Croatia is at the beginning of a Member State where men use maternity and parental leave and we see it as a major challenge for positive measures and a set of other measures that will be created through resolution bodies that will encourage this harmonisation of family and business life and the possibility of bringing women back to the labour market to be made as painless as possible to remove that obstacle that is related to motherhood that I previously spoke of. So, in recent years in Croatia, we have been testifying through both the resolution body and through the establishment of a special one, I would say, part about recognising the need for demographic and ethnic policy, but what we hold as an institution is that we should especially work on demining the benefits we are looking for, and also as a mother of twins I know that it is different, we hold that a different fee is needed if a mother gives birth to two or three children because this one fee, I would say that in some way it is insufficient if it is a pregnancy that is both two or three things, so the needs of each child are certainly and greater. What we also saw, and covering the field of work and employment, is sexual harassment at work, and if we look at that share of statistics of 46% in the field of labour, employment and social security, then the share of sexual harassment at the workplace in recent years is also a significant share, and is above one-third. Even though we have anonymous complaints, and it is exclusively women who say that they are sexually harassed at work, we feel that it is necessary to empower women much more if they recognize that they are discriminated against by sex or have sexual harassment with unworthy blackmails that they testify at their workplace to be strengthened, to report employers, and equally those who did so, and have addressed us with additional victimisation at the workplace, which is also prohibited by law. And I believe that these public cases that have talked about trying to rape in the workplace or sexual harassment at the workplace will lead to this model of ethical code and way of handling, professional treatment at the workplace that it will be significant I would say more adequately understood given that it is a criminal offence. It is something that most women who live in the workplace of such a form of abuse do not even know that it is a criminal act, which is hierarchical. The area of family relations and parental care is the area where we have a lot more fathers complaining about the bodies of state authorities, most often social care centres that through their teams take special opinions about the welfare of children or decisions that the child will live with after the breakdown of the community, speak and complain about courts, passiveity, not taking adequate haste measures, while mothers in such cases when it comes to parental care recommendations point to a certain lack of sensitivity of professionals related to the previous violence they have suffered in the family or partner community. When we talk about domestic violence, it is another area of complaint and the importance of which this institution deals. The increase in the crime of family violence in 2019 compared to 2018 is over 40%, but if we look at the last 10 years then that increase is over 70% when we talk about criminal acts. We are in decline of acts of domestic violence, in some ways we would say that the victims suffer certain types of domestic violence until they reach the level of brutality and then such violence enters the sphere of crime. What we always point to, and it is primarily that we lack strong enough prevention and preventive measures and that for now, along with this way, mild penalization through the judicial system and insufficient sentences and sentences of prisons and other safeguard measures from the distance from the housing unit, etc. lead to the need to work on this system of really preventive mechanisms and a continuous, truly continuous professional education of all professionals. Therefore, an education plan must be known in certain areas and through the justice system of the DORH, the Judicial Academy, the Police Academy and through the social protection system, so all stakeholders participating through the Protocol on Family Violence. Regarding the rights of sexual and gender minorities, we received complaints from persons of same-sex orientation who had problems and a certain kind of harassment at work because of their sexual background. And here we have identified certain cases and warned employers that they must have a certain code of conduct, an enforcement procedure for the protection of dignity and that they have been warned in the way they treat their employees. Compared to the previous years, we received better data on hate crimes, hate crimes based on Hitting, speech to people of homosexual orientation. As regards gender identity in 2019, the activities of this institution marked joint educations with the professionals of the prison system, and this is a major step by the Ministry of Justice and the prison system, where we included not the institution of the Ombudsman who receives complaints from citizens and citizens from the Republic of Croatia in the area where they feel discriminated, but they included civil society organisations dealing with it, as well as health institutions that explain certain problems and obstacles faced by transgender persons. In our public action and actions on complaints, you have one specific area dealing with particularly sensitive social groups that are at risk of multiple discrimination where we have handled women and rural areas, women with disabilities, members of national minorities, victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War, victims of human trafficking and damage to the criminal part of prostitution, as well as our contribution to creating or making observations through public debate or through working groups in documents relating to the exercise of their rights. The area of education continued to be monitored and worked on complaints from citizens related to educational educational materials in which certain sex stereotypes continue to appear. Related to Media Reporting 2019 It marked one document and an agreement that we signed ethically, media code, pardons, a media code that we put together with over 1,000 and some media employees, over 30 media houses signed the agreement, and is related to how we report victims of domestic violence and all forms of violence against women, including femicid itself. What we saw through the last quarter after the signing of the agreement and during the second quarter of 2019. is that there has been a certain improvement in media relations, media reporting on victims of domestic violence and other forms of violence where a significant fall from 27% to 4% is revealed when the victim's identity is revealed. Also sensational headlines also had a certain decline in their reporting. As far as political participation is concerned, I must say that before all election processes and parliamentary, local, presidential and Europarliamentary, we write and warn and propose to all political parties that they hold appropriate speeches in their public rhetoric, that they are not inappropriate in strengthening political discussion, in particular that they do not go to the personal level and deformation of a political opponent or opponent using certain sexisms or the presentation of family, marriage or other facts. So we continue to follow the way involved and participate in representing political parties, the relationship between applicants and men and women. Likewise, participation in various committees, political bodies, committees where we feel it is necessary to really adhere to that minimum, a legal minimum of 40% when it comes to political decisions. As regards reproductive rights this year, in 2019, the focus was on the problems of the lack of gynological teams, the overload of the health care system, the percentage, the high percentage of health care professionals who were in the call of conscience, which is why all authorised healthcare services in some way were not able to provide this health care service sufficiently and where we had an exceptional correspondence with the Ministry of Health who brought certain instructions to health institutions in which the rights related to access to pregnancy should be applied. We had significant research and work thanks to initiatives Assembly MP, here's another sentence, please, regarding sexual violence and generally violence in sports where I hold that we have excellent research with the Croatian Handball Union and given my time, I hold that I will have in further debate of time [[Intruder: Time]] and the opportunity to answer you. [[Intruder: It took more than one sentence, you'll have to bring the end]] I apologize and thank you for a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8424	Please remain, you have plenty of replicas, the first distinguished representative is Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8425	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Attorney General, ma'am. A pet. In public discourse in the last about week, maybe two weeks, we've had a chance to hear about the opinion that the attorney's office should be united, that you're not doing your job well or being questioned how you do it. I would now like to tell both you and the public of Croatia and my colleagues and colleagues that you enjoy my personal support, to congratulate you on your work and that as a member of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities since I've been sitting in this high house I've advocated, and I will be sure that we have specialized law enforcement offices because I think that's all we do is strengthen the quality of protecting the rights of our citizens and citizens. Therefore, you have my absolute support in your further work, and the remarks, perhaps I will make proposals in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8426	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8427	Mr. Representative, I thank you for your support. What I can say is that for 20 years we had a unique institution without special defence institutions covering certain discriminatory areas, the area of gender equality which, you saw how wide and covering social groups and certain problems were devoted to two pages. So this much about this problem, which is really not a woman's issue, is already a question that has been swept through a complete economic economic political and social system. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8428	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8429	Thank you, Vice President. In your presentation of the report, I have observed that you have actively cooperated with the authorities of the state administration and the units of local and regional (regional) self-government, however, with what I have stuck to the eye, which is that only 9 counties and 12 cities have responded, so my question is what about the cooperation of other cities and counties, how ready they are to cooperate with you and how you will improve or affect other units of local and regional (regional) self-government and I am interested in your opinion on what is the reason for not giving up on the cooperation of other cities and counties, and does the Osijek-Baranja County also belong in that group? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8430	I thank you for your question, unlike the other three defence offices that have their offices in three regional centres, Osijek, Split and Rijeka, the Ombudsman's institution is relying on 21 county committees for gender equality established, encouraged to work also by the basis of the Law on Gender Equality, and I regularly cooperate with them on various activities held at local level. With Osijek-Baranja County, we also worked extremely well together last year where we had education and, of course, with EU funds where we did police education in particular, the State's Attorney's Office, particularly both judges and judges, related to domestic violence and related to femicids. We have no problems with co-operation at the county level or at the local level, therefore with cities, but given our budget simply in a year we cannot visit 21 counties. But I really have no objection to cooperation, cooperation is always open.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8431	Next replica, the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8432	Thank you. Dear Advocate Ljubicic, I would first like to thank you for your comprehensive report and also to say here that, given your capacities and financial and human capacity, we can actually be fascinated by the number of cases and the organisation of work and the results you have achieved, so that, in this sense, as Parliament, we can be satisfied. What I would like to ask you is how much you have noticed and what would you give as recommendations on the work of the government and the body of the state administration to implement the Istanbul Convention, how much of this has been done, what are the challenges and what do you recommend to be some basic steps we need to take to ensure successful implementation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8433	I thank you. I don't know if I'll be able to answer that extensive question in one minute but I'd say this. Therefore, the Istanbul Convention is a set of legislative measures that not only includes the area of criminal law but also includes a civil law aspect through the law on free legal aid, includes prevention through various inter-resor teams and includes the establishment at local level of sufficient numbers of shelters and consultations. The expectation that in one year such a complete, one circle of protection of the victim and sanctioning the perpetrator is almost impossible to achieve. It takes political will and systematic work on it. One part of national legislation, criminal legislation has been resolved although we have certain objections regarding full enforcement in criminal law and these other measures have been prepared in parallel, here we will now see through this mandate to what extent we will reach the parameters and standards set in prevention, prosecution and protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8434	Time. The next replica, the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8435	Thank you, good afternoon. Your Honorary Attorney, here's except for your report, we also received a report from the debate on the Committee on Gender Equality. The report states that in the debate, most committee members supported the lawyer's work and assessed the report as objective and thorough, which I personally agree with, however, at the same time. On the other hand, while respecting the importance of the institution and the marked usefulness of its activities, it is noted that the report should choose the terminology more carefully and use the values of neutral terms. To me, these two sentences are conflicting with each other, they're contradictory to me. My question to you is, did you feel any political inappropriate pressure on you and on your work during the debate on the Committee on Gender Equality?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8436	I have to say that I don't feel political pressure and that I've never felt it because I'm always a legalist, consistent and very pragmatic and I think I've resisted the various demands that someone from their own personal, political or secular perspective understands that an independent institution should act. The Michigan institutions in the world have been operating for over 100 and 200 years, we've been networked through the Equinte network and we know their experiences and we don't want to get out of that discourse that independent institutions need to function. So, in these eight years of office, it has not happened so far that we have had some kind of opinion which has been problemed in legal terms through judicial proceedings because our citizens, when we determine discrimination, with these solutions lead to judicial proceedings and in the most part get them and finally let our legal considerations use international standards and European court practices, respect higher courts. I mean, roof courts in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8437	Time. Next replica, distinguished representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8438	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, ma'am. Advocate General, he would also commend this report, which states that the Ombudsman's Office conducted 3 independent surveys, published 4 publications and made proposals, comments, remarks, which are indeed for every commendation. I will briefly touch the work where you talk about reproductive rights and the institute calls for conscience, I think you presented it in a very objective way, so I will personally always advocate for the protection of human life but I will also make sure that we live in a plural and democratic society and a legal proposal that will cover as many citizens as possible and citizens in our country will be of quality, I think the Institute calls for conscience to remain, it is another debate but I think you mentioned it in a very appropriate way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8439	I thank you. We have no problem with the appeal of conscience although he is in high procedure if he instructs the resolution body to all healthcare institutions to clarify the instructions, you can use the call of conscience but you cannot interfere with the availability of medical services to any woman who asks for it. Therefore, regarding the exercise of certain rights through the new Law on Interrupt Pregnancy, I will call for the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2017, which also focused on the fact that no matter what the new legislative solution is made, the existing law cannot be limited.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8440	The next replica is the distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8441	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Madam Attorney General. First of all, I would like to commend your report, which is full of statistics, but not just data, but also their interpretation, by linking the causal linkages and appropriate conclusions. Among other things, I will refer only to the part of the report in which gender-related violence and domestic violence are analysed by trends that testify to the reduction in the number of victims of domestic violence in the area of criminal justice and the increase in criminal protection cases, which suggests that certain steps have been made in the area of legal legislation. However, what is the fact that there is still and there is a need for room for improvement in terms of prevention of domestic violence, in terms of education on gender-based violence and in terms of the resociation of violent persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8442	I thank the distinguished MPs for the observed details because we continuously point out to the Ministry of Justice that we need to develop a sufficiently strong network of professionals who will be doing psychosocial treatment with perpetrators who have proved very good in view of the relapses and repetitive acts of such violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8443	The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8444	Your Honor's Attorney General. I will not ask you if you know whether there are politicians who have become a leader in promoting sexism and discrimination on the basis of sex, calling other people's family members, measuring women's success according to non-existent criteria, carrying out lies and insulting at the personal level of persons with whom they disagree, calling women names and deliberate humiliation, and otherwise known for being hurt by groins when he was a parliamentary representative that he declared Croatia a random state and would prefer to move his office to a restaurant. I'm going to ask you how to respond to such a worrying state when the highest government officials arrive in these messages, and through certain media outlets they get the right to the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8445	When we get these personal statements from the Supreme Authority, what we as an institution could react to is that it really was not just about sexist expressions towards women, parliamentary representatives and other women, including inappropriate connotations about the Ombudsman's institution for gender equality, there were also certain data that were not appropriate. So, I would say about the problem and age of a woman for a particular position, and the presentation of certain family or marital status for survival, maintenance or application to a particular function. So here we have responded to three segments and such a message from the level of the highest authority of the Republic of Croatia is considered to be worrying.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8446	Time. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8447	Thank you, Vice President. I welcome the D.A.'s attorney. And I'll also commend your report, it's transparent, it's obvious, and whoever wanted to read it could have read it all. But here in one part you listed the political representation of women and I also agree with you that there should be more women, but I might want to trouble some other problem, which is over-representation of women. So we have a system of education and education in the service system, in health care, administration in most cases are women. Are you connecting it to pay, personal income, job, or something else? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8448	So we have the feminization of certain professions such as the education system, the social system, but when we look at the hierarchical structure then we come up with devastating data and statistics and that's exactly what we're suggesting, so touching the glass ceiling and what positive measures to make it happen to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8449	The next replica is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8450	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mrs. Ljubic. For many years now, and you are stressing exactly the problem of the gap in the salaries of male and other disproportionate women, so I would like to point out in this section that, just under the law on amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, it is possible to recognise part of the maternity, parental training that is exactly in retirement, so when the conditions are obtained, as the first condition of an adult, for each child born, that is to say, an additional 6 months, and also all benefits that are received by the basis of this are entered into the calculation of the basis for the retirement of a future pensioner or woman. Here's something that's extra. of 1.1.2019 significant change. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8451	I thank you because it is the institution of the attorney general in the complaint of women who have given birth to 5 or 6 children who have experienced devastating pensions, or the end of their employment, precisely because their average was small because they were perhaps 5 or more years old because of the preservation of pregnancy they were not on the labour market. And we asked through a professional inter-resor body, the Ministry of Demography, the Ministry of Labour and Economy to do something with mothers of births that really gave this country great human pain.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8452	The next replica is the esteemed representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8453	Here's a thank you, dear Vice President. I especially commend you for pointing to the position of disabled women, especially women with disabilities in rural areas, and I would like to point out that here are women with disabilities that have been few in the past few years, I would say more aware and educated by the fact that when it comes to discrimination, violence, any kind of violence, which can be addressed to your office even though through the Community, the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities has an SOS phone, and therefore we have a Ombudsman for people with disabilities who can also file their complaint, they are happy to know that your office is open to them at any time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8454	Thank you. Otherwise, we have great cooperation with civil society organisations that work with people with disabilities. What has been done in synergy and one major advance on women with disabilities that has been made in the last 3 or 4 years. The birth rate of women with disabilities was over 200%.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8455	The next replica is the esteemed representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8456	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honorary Attorney, here's a distinguished colleague, Petyr, who has opened up a subject that is too present in our public space, as far as this inappropriate speech is concerned, which is addressed to women right now. I am interested in another concrete example that happened on public television paid by all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and funded, and I am interested in what you did and if you did not, why did you not do anything when elected parliamentary representative Karolin Vidović Kristo, Mr. Krešo Macan, called the character in one of the shows? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8457	Well, I think when you're already asking such a question to the distinguished MPs that you've been following whether the Ombudsman's institution has reacted, is that a very certain case given these events, so the lawyer's institution has responded not only to the Kristo case but also to the mayor's case to the council. So it is in both cases about sexism and I am pleased that both citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are aware of and recognise the institution of the Ombudsman as a place where they will point to individual cases, so when it comes to inappropriate advertising, inappropriate media campaigns, or to calculating at such a personal level with sexual premonitions, so with sexual prejudice or stereotype using various forms of sexism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8458	The next replica is the esteemed representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8459	I'd like to thank the esteemed attorney, congratulate you on your election, congratulate you on your report. I must point out that I'm not pleased by reading your report that you noted that underage pregnancies are part of the Roma population, I think it's... No, that's one thing because I think 50-70 years ago. [[No, no, I'm sorry I can't hear you, I can't hear you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8460	A little stronger, he can't hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8461	I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8462	A little louder if you can talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8463	...that underage pregnancies are part of the Roma population, that's tradition, I don't think that's right and that's not true because I think 50-70 years ago. It wasn't exactly like that. That's one thing. And secondly, does the increase in the number of reporting results mean that there has been a deterioration or that there has been a more free reporting of discrimination?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8464	I'm sorry, I haven't heard the last two of you. Yeah, pregnancy, something...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8465	Is your report saying that underage pregnancy is part of the tradition of Roma culture, which I don't think is right, it's not true because before 50-60. It's not like that, it's one thing. And secondly, I'm curious about whether it's worsened the situation or more free to report discrimination? That's my question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8466	I must say when it comes to the exercise of the rights of members and members of the Roma national minority that we use a large part of the remarks and content from the resources and the clearness of the Government's Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, so if you show me which part of the report is involved, is it something that has been transferred from their obvious because we are asking collectively for the achievement of all the activities and measures that have been made under the National Protection Programme and the promotion of human rights, and then some part of it concerns that I would ask you then to direct us to see what it is, that it is not derived from the context. Here's my apology if you consider that something related to the Roma national minority was misrepresented.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8467	And the last replica, the distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8468	Thank you. Your Honor, Attorney General, I'm going to ask you for an explanation. Since I believe that the appeal of conscience is a particularly important institution, and that the increasingly strong totalitarian tendencies from the extreme left that are going towards its abolition while it has been managed by it, the historical response to totalitarian regimes and should be cherished, I will ask you to refer to a part of your report, in which you say that all authorised health institutions are unable to provide a health care service of pregnancy and you are talking about the appeal of conscience as a reason, that because of the different information and disinformation that is being made available in the media, that you clearly state what health institutions are talking about, how many are and which are actually preventing the right to abortion, to see whether there is this number, whether it is large or whether it is different disinformation because what I have been investigating, has not shown that there are institutions in which there are no right to exercise, having access to public statistics.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8469	... the document related to our research on the availability of pregnancy interruptions in the Republic of Croatia 2014-2018, data obtained from all health institutions providing medical care for pregnancy interruptions, in 2014 so they did not provide a health care stop service was KB St. Spirit, Nashice, Virovitica, Vinkovci, Požega and Knin. [[Specially enabled.]] 2018, two authorised, did not provide a service, the Holy Spirit and Nasice with three additional scientific institutions, all health professionals in the call of conscience but they solved the problem by engaging an external associate. Such a situation was held in 2018, 2019, we had a conversation and a response to the Resent Ministry of Health where a guide was given to the way healthcare professionals have to redistribute to provide health care services to women who require termination of pregnancy. Otherwise, this is an executive obligation. The Executive Authorities of the Ministry of Health, is not the obligation of the Advocate's Office. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] These were our two investigations based on complaints of citizens where we are. They wanted to actually analyze what it was about. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8470	Thank you very much. You can go to the place. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Maria Selak Rasudiæ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8471	Good afternoon, everyone, since you've already heard this part about the attorney's work, I'm not going to repeat it, but I'm going to look back at this part, but I'm going to be asked as one parliamentary question and it's unclear or controversial, or what happened on the board. In the debate, most committee members supported the work of the Ombudsman and assessed the report as objective and thorough. The lawyer's efforts to combat discrimination have been praised as well as the awareness of society in gender equality and the education of the media on sensible reports of violence. Now we come to the very question of the debate. In the debate, several topics deserve special attention, such as abuse and sexual harassment at work, the conduct of the CZSS related to parental care and conflict divorces, too little percentage of fathers who use parental and maternity leave, psychosocial treatment of perpetrators of domestic violence, overly sanctioning and increasing the number of crimes of family violence, the appeal of gynecologist's conscience in the context of the exercise of women's reproductive rights. Now we come to the part about which the question was asked. On the other hand, while respecting the importance of the institution, the marked usefulness of its activities, the observation has been made that the report should choose the terminology more carefully and use the values of neutral terms. Allow me two more sentences that have been expressed, so I will look back on what Dalia Oreskovic asked about. Furthermore, the proposal stressed that the annual reports for the following period should be completed in certain segments, for example in a more transparent manner, to be made available to the office's financial resources. It is also asked the question of the possibility of more effective handling complaints and with the aim of improving work and rationalising material and working resources, in this sense the members of the board are mostly votes, 10 votes for and 1 abstention, that was my vote, have decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the conclusion that the report accepts. As far as this question is concerned, first of all, we consider the question completely wrongly asked because I am a part of the opposition and not the authorities and I have...... I'm sorry, there's been a question about the report, and I'm answering the question of something that's controversial in the report. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Okay, no problem, I can do this in a speech on behalf of the club because the MP asked a question about the report, I thought it was my duty as chairman of the board to defend the report I filed, so there's no attempt to get out of the box. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] But if you don't want me to talk about the report right now, I'll talk about it on behalf of the club, no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8472	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please. Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8473	... Because it would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure, 54, where it states that the rapporteur of the committee reports on the position or proposal of the body not his own. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8474	Yeah, we warned. Thank you. Do the government's representatives want to give an additional explanation? No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first one for discussion came from a respected representative, Nada Murganic, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8475	I thank the respected, respected Vice-President HS, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, the esteemed defence attorneys along with the team, and I also welcome the representatives of individual ministries. The HDZ Club will support the lawyer's report for 2019. As stated in the lawyer’s report, the Ombudsman was in 2019. In 1719 cases, 503 of them were complaints against discrimination, and most of the cases were related to monitoring the application of the Law on Gender Equality, as an independent body responsible for combating discrimination in the field of gender equality, also analysed a number of activities of different entities and actors in society. The Advocate's Office also took part in e-consultations in the process of law-making, independent research and analysis, European projects were carried out, 4 significant European projects amounting to EUR 2 million, as well as partnership in different other projects. There is also strong co-operation with individual ministries, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Social Policy concerning various educations, particularly related to issues of violence. In its work, of course, what has been done by the Law on Defence and the implementation of the Law on Discrimination, the Law on Gender Equality, and it has followed this report to see this particular issue in its work through several areas. What we would particularly point out is the area related to employment and work, what we all like to say is that in this area women are mostly subordinated and discriminated very often in the workplace that victims and sexual harassment, that women are more often low qualifications and longer unemployed, and during their employment they have mostly lower jobs and are represented in those institutions, institutions and professions that are underpaid. Women are longer unemployed, especially women of lower and medium age, and I, as recognised by the government, would have the problem and initiated throughout Croatia in 2018 and '19. Initiated the "Wish" programme, which significantly mitigated this particular problem. The problem of women mothers is also highlighted, especially by returning to their former jobs that were most often not welcomed by them, and during their work because of more frequent missing children’s illnesses, they have problems. We certainly expect the new Labour Act to come to that. Parental benefits increased on two occasions in the past government and significantly improved the status of young mothers and young parents. This government has also advocated equal parenting, for harmonising family and business life with different measures. Certainly, there is also a problem of violence, a negative phenomenon in which the qualification of violent behavior is more difficult and because the act itself is harder, and because of the amendments to the Law on protection against domestic violence, the Criminal Law and the Penal Code, we expect that the rightful punishment of a bully will be contained. This and the past government is making significant efforts to protect against violence, especially women and especially family members through different forms, by amending the law, by adopting a protocol, by working on prevention which is certainly not enough and by trying to achieve a fair punishment for the bully as a measure of punishment, but also as a measure of preventing relapse and all that is necessary, and these are psychological treatments and victims, but certainly the perpetrators in terms of improving and solving these problems. What I would like to point out, that was now and then a question in the replica, what was done after the adoption of the Istanbul Convention? It's done enough. However, the fight against violence is a long-standing process in which all segments of society should be equally pursued, by the government is the political will or by the policy of the whole, and also by the adoption of different regulations and measures and we have already talked about it equally, and in individual discussions it will be potential. What you'd like to point out in particular, and that's what's mentioned here, a parenting issue. Most of the time, the fathers complained to the lawyer about the bias of child custody, and I think that if there were prejudices that it was simply already prevailed and that we have increasingly often been given parental care to our fathers, but we also have to make sure that in highly conflicting divorces a decision that would satisfy both parents is very difficult and that we should in any case have full and complete trust for the professionals who are educated and who are authorized to do so. And of course that's the problem that needs to be seen. The lawyer also pointed out work in the media and with the media. What is very important is that we all appreciate the role of the media, especially when it is necessary to expose some negative phenomena in society on the one hand, but also when it is intended to send positive messages through one form of raising or raising awareness of the nation. However, we have observations and examples where, through a sensational inscription in the media, victims were very often damaged, revealed in writings about violent behavior and violent events, tragedies and the scene of events, the place of the victim’s residence, and very often, family data were presented in a very inappropriate way and data were presented that were related to children. In this regard, the ministry also presented and brought a manual on how to report media, particularly on violent behaviour and events related to violence, and they are also in line with the media code and in the EU, and we must point out that an agreement has been signed between the individual attorney's departments with certain media houses and media portals with the aim of not making it more harmful to the delivery and Stigmatisation, especially the victims themselves, but also to the incorrect and biased data that harm the other side, and on the other hand, particularly to the institutions. I would point out that in 2019, somewhere in the 3rd month, the media presentation of various events related to violence, violence in the family where there were just a series of examples of damage to the victim, how a whole system was stegmatized, an entire activity and profession, and unfortunately it was interrupted by a tragic event where the public had opportunities in a very sad, tragic, but windy way to see how in which a way of stegmatizing and disdaining one activity and people in their workplace could end and tragically. The ministry had already warned that there were other means of communication, complaints and opened one communication channel special for all who believe they were damaged. The message is that with such sensitive situations, family tragedies where high conflict divorces are, where parents can't agree on children and where it ends with serious violence, let the experts handle it as long as parents don't find their own way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8476	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs Sabina's voter who will speak in front of the SDP's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8477	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected Madam Advocates with an associate, respected representatives of the ministries. The SDP Club will support the report on the work of the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2019 as well as all previous years for a very clear reason, if this report is part of the annual work of the institution and cases, and if it also points to certain trends related to discrimination based on sex, marital and family status, pregnancy and motherhood, sexual orientation, gender identity and in the fields of work, employment and social security, families, education, political participation, media, sports, access to goods and services, then the only conclusion that can be made this year from this report is that you have been knowingly and responsibly doing your job, that this and this time at HS, the parliamentary representatives and the representatives are very comprehensive and detailedly informed, but that in the contents of this year in front of the Assembly and the representatives are to assist you in the alarming of state institutions that you need to carry out the rights of law and the right of the women, and the right of law that you should be able to take the right of the right of the law and the law and the right of the right of the parties and the right of the right of the right of the women, and of the law, and of the law, and of the law, and of the law of the law, and of the law, and of the law, and of the law, and of the law, and of the law, and of the law, and of the law, and of the law of the law of the law, and of the law, and of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law and of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of I know that sounds utopian, but step by step, which is to say shorter and more extensively your reports, and the fewer problems they get, the more we'll be able to say that we're approaching a mature democratic orderly country. But let's get to the point. So when we talk about trends, there we can see that unfortunately some defeating trends for the Republic of Croatia do not hurt. A little when we talk about labour and employment discrimination, we improved compared to 2018, but unfortunately if we see the fact that we continue in the field of work and employment, most of the women who are discriminated against, and in more than 70%, and that complaints in this area have fallen from 46 to 43%, we certainly cannot be satisfied. Why? Because she is a working woman and equally treated woman in the labour market and her discrimination in the field of work is a prerequisite for a number of other discriminations and for the number of other exposures and vulnerabilities and in the part of the organisation of her family and professional life and the exposure to violence due to economic instability, and this entails a number of other problems for women who, in most cases, have been detected as a discriminated sex in a number of areas, although we are here talking about the protection of the Law on Gender Equality. Unfortunately, however, there are fewer men who are discriminated against still by women in a significant proportion. What also cannot satisfy us, I know that the representatives of the government and in the explanation of the government's obvious on your report, and perhaps today in this debate, say that certain percentages have been made, or certain steps towards improving the system of maternity and parental support when we talk about the amounts of these support, that is true, the fact remains that Croatia is still at the beginning of Europe when we talk about the use of maternity and parental support and that it is still very small, almost no role of men in the whole story, with 7.55% in 2018, this share of parental support by fathers or men has risen to 8.21%, but we still cannot talk about the equal use of parental support from fathers and mothers, men and women, or however you will, and not then on equal parental participation for child care, and this is something that we need to pursue. The pay gap between men and women is somewhat lower compared to 2018, as is the pension gap between men and women, however, still if we talk about the pay gaps of 12.78% and the pension differences of 21.45%, then it must be the defeat of the state and we can't talk about non-discriminatory society when we talk about women and men. If we add this to the fact that this particularly affects the risk of poverty, then it is no wonder why we are fighting this problem and one day we were here in the Croatian Parliament discussing the State Audit report for the previous year, where among other things the Croatian Strategy for Combating Poverty has been tested, where the defeating fact that the strategy is the meaning of the Croatian state, that we are based on the report of independent audit institutions, has shown that we have only one measure of all measures managed to realise that the problem of poverty and a large number of Croatian citizens living at risk of poverty is not our problem and that we are not concerned. We are not able to stick to the documents that we brought ourselves and implement the measures that we ourselves have outlined in one of the burning problems such as the risk of poverty. When we talk about domestic violence, despite the fact that there have been some changes in both the Penal Code and the Law on Protection against Family Violence, still the practice of courts to judge the lowest possible penalties, when we talk about the Penal Code of Family Violence, so there is still a practice that the lowest penalties that are judged are actually conditional prison sentences of between 6 and 12 months. It is a message that Croatian society continues to send. I understand the independence of the Croatian judiciary, the right to assess, judge, but these are the bad messages to be sent. In fact, it is an amazing fact that in the Ministry of Justice in the division where a million kunas are intended to implement a protective measure of psychosocial treatment based on art. 13. The law on protection against domestic violence we spent in 2019 only a little more than half of those funds, I don't understand why and why. And now I'm going to end up with a topic that is very important for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially women, that is access to health and health services. It remains unclear to me from the government's clear view of the Republic of Croatia in which it intends to prevent a case that happened in Zadar County from ever again, that by night actually 13 000 women, including 600 pregnant women, were left without primary gynaecological care. That can't happen. Primary gynaecological concerns. Not to mention the inaccessibility or difficulty in achieving the right to health care in the field of reproductive health that is at the lowest possible levels, where this problem, which is not only the problem of the Zadar County, has escalated there, there is a bomb that has cracked but that is something that we need to know how to handle and give spot solutions, and it is not clear from this obvious that the Government has long-term solutions and let alone spot solutions. And third, how do you end up ignoring the state institutions and the government of the Republic of Croatia not only on your reports but also on the decisions of the Constitutional Court? In 2017, the Constitutional Court gave the Government of the Republic of Croatia a period of 2 years to pass a new law regulating women's right to make free decisions on the birth of children and to interrupt pregnancy. Today in 2020, the government is deaf, dumb and blind to a good part of the population of the Republic of Croatia that is deprived of the right to health care and health care that is guaranteed by law. That's inadmissible. I also call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to forward a law that will provide women in the Republic of Croatia, that the right to health care, medical or induction of pregnancy be made available, free of charge and free of charge. At this point, women don't have, even those things guaranteed by law are basically derrogated and actually denied. And you yourself said in six public health institutions in the Republic of Croatia, women who opted for this health care service were disabled because of the appeal of conscience. Here, it's my kind of contribution on behalf of the club, we support your work, you continue, be clear and loud and objective and independent.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8478	Thank you very much, ma'am. A voter. Thank you. It is now Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic's turn to speak on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club. He's gone. He's losing his right. - Mrs. Crescent. Rada Boric will speak in front of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, ma'am. Boric, but he was right in front of me, I couldn't read. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8479	Mr. Vice President. Ma'am. The defense attorney and her valuable team. Also, colleagues from ministries and government, colleagues and colleagues. Here, fortunately, I'm not from the Most, but from the green-left coalition, which will support the Green-left bloc club, the Attorney General's report for a number of reasons. Today there is indeed a comprehensive report, there are 363 pages, and for those who have been over-reported, a summary of 30 pages and read and indeed get a thorough insight into how one independent body works in the Republic and we would like that of other independent bodies, or that this Assembly may also allow one other independent body to do something from a domain that interests the body. We have already heard, of course, that in the area of the work of the Ombudsman, it is said that it is considering a violation of the principle of equality and cases of discrimination against individuals or individuals or groups of individuals who have committed primarily the bodies of the state administration or of the local and regional (regional) administrations of self-government, and, of course, individual ones, and, as you see in this one scale, which should be dealt with by a small team of ten or 11, 12 people is indeed an exceptional area because discrimination and women and men are happening in all areas of life and work, and in particular, we have seen from reports that when we talk about discrimination, it does not affect equal men and women and does not just affect them from what we characterise both their sexual or gender characteristics. Therefore, for many of our citizens, the Ombudsman is exactly what they can safely address if they feel they have experienced discrimination based on whether, therefore, gender, gender, gender, or marital status, and sexual orientation, gender identity. This large report has been shared and we heard this in the introduction to areas of discrimination, as I said, there is no area where we would not recognise that there is discriminatory practices and what is important to me in addition to this report that probably someone else will say something about the fact that the added value of the commission's work is participation in several significant EU projects that have on the one hand served to connect, why I only have a mask, to connect different stakeholders in the fight against discrimination. So, from different institutions to civil society associations, and also, as we heard, since the Attorney's Office exists only in Zagreb and in different environments of the Republic of Croatia and in these projects and performances in this good synergy and often neglected or invisible, so-called invisible topics, therefore visible but invisible subject of pay equality and pension for women and men, which was one project or what should be talked about is the change in various implications of possible parenting for women and men, especially related to maternity, paternity and parental leave. Here today we have heard only these two terms, maternity and parental, I think that Croatia could join other EU members and introduce mandatory father leave at least in that minimum of about 18 days because, as in Western Europe, it is increasingly more and more when a woman is born, when a woman is born, we have less and less possible grandmothers and moms services. So if, on the other hand, by introducing a fatherly leave we would also have the opportunity to live in a patriarchal society that men don't feel, is it, as it is said, as slippers, if they stayed with their wife who gave birth, and we know very well how important it is to connect and fathers at such an early age. In addition to that analysis in areas we have heard from employment and work, gender-based violence, maternity care, gender and gender minorities, education, political participation, there is therefore no area that has not, which has not had discriminatory practices and which the Ombudsman has not tried to respond to with her team. But what is equally important is that particular part relating to national mechanisms for the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality and other laws and regulations, and I really hope that the Government will conclude because after 5 years it has passed a fundamental document on national gender equality policy. Without a new national policy, we cannot take new measures, we cannot take new measures. Here was the most talk about from colleagues so far, about the topic and gender-based violence and for all those who may still not like this term and if they have a problem with gender-based violence, it is always necessary to repeat that 90% of the perpetrators of violence are men and until that changes, surely we can talk about gender-based violence. Violence, which unfortunately is increasingly public, so we say it's good, so we don't know whether because it's publicly sensitized to this kind of violence, I think we should thank the attorney's work for having made some changes to legislation, but it's still worrying that it exists, that it was in '19. 40 or 45 more crimes, part of it related to amendments to legislation, but still unfortunately too many, we have too many violations, although it is said that they are now in decline and I hope that the tendency where women and men are going to be leveled will be criminally related to the family, to so-called domestic violence, in fact violence of men against women that they will indeed be in decline. What I would like to point out here, and also pointed out by my colleague Sabina, the worrying state described in this Report, which is related to discrimination against women in the field of work and employment, but because 6% of the complaints to the lawyer refer precisely to discrimination coming from this area, whether it is about pay gaps for the same work or underpaid sectors in which they participate in most women, here a colleague has asked why, and briefly, the Ombudsman replied precisely that the entire sectors in which women are dominated have been paid, and of course they have fewer pensions than we have heard or have less pensions because they were on maternity leave, so if they may have used the opportunity to stay for three years, how it is possible that it never entered into the service, and let's say serving in the army is. What also worries, and the report states that 35-40% of applications refer to sexual harassment, we know today that both men and women in companies where they work, were public enterprises or private, but again here we are talking about the phenomenon that women are mobbing, that is, sex in, because of their sex, so that they are blackmailed at work in a different way than men are, and these are often from rude offers or immoral offers as they say, until we have seen cases of sexual abuse. Fortunately, and last year, one case started, we hope, and this was whether of the also respected HDZ member, Mr. Skar, we hope that for this sexual abuse that took place last year in September, it was a year ago, that legislation, too, and we insist on for years, that cases of violence against women will have priority, so we can't allow that on one side of the sanctions are small and I won't say that future bullies can be encouraged, but in any case, it's extremely important that the attorney has the option, regardless of the application or if she has knowledge, and we've also witnessed this year 14 women, so she usually doesn't believe one, so two women don't believe, but 14 women have also reported sexual abuse. I'm not sure how fast the time has passed, but in any case, we'll be happy to accept this report, so I'll get back to you individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8480	Thank you. Thank you very much. We're moving on to taking a stand. Can I help you? Injury of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8481	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You have violated Articles 54 and 334. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, because you have banned the Presidents of the Committee of the Parental Authorities from speaking about this Report and thus violated two articles. Your reasons are unknown to me. You broke two articles, I couldn't be here in Parliament because of the epidemiological measures and the crowns, but when I saw what you did for the first time in Parliament's history,...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8482	Time, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8483	You've broken two articles, it's the same that you're rapporteurs,...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8484	But time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8485	Oh, come on. past [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8486	Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8487	So if you'll excuse me, at least apologize to your colleagues... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8488	Please, please, sit down and we'll cross...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8489	54th, look, for the first time in history, you've banned it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8490	...to take a stand because it's 12 hours and 59 minutes, 58 minutes before you start, sit down, sit down...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8491	But you're breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8492	Please, please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8493	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8494	Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8495	I'll sit down whenever I'm ready.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8496	And now we continue to discuss the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality, now it is up to Mrs Selak Rasudiæ to speak on behalf of the Club of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8497	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. First, unfortunately, since I haven't had the opportunity to speak as the applicant of the report on behalf of the Committee, I'm going to have to look back at this chaos that occurred on behalf of the Club. In fact, it has been said that there is a sentence within the Report that is contradictory, which says "on the other hand, respecting the importance of the institution, the express usefulness of its activities, the observation was made that the report should choose the terminology more carefully and use the values of neutral terms", the question was raised on the Ombudsman whether political pressure was put on the lawyer? The first thing I'm going to say is, this remark is mine, and I'm going to explain it in more detail later. Secondly, I must explain to the distinguished representative Oreskovic, that she has completely confused the relationship between the government and the opposition. In that sense, she would do very well to make some senses clear if she was going to work in this congregation. I cannot exert political pressure, so I and my Committee have no authority, there is HDZ, which is the majority, the political pressure exerts power, the attorney-general elected by the ruling majority has nominal independence but is part of the ruling nomenclature, while I, as an opposition, have a task and am authorized by the people to question its action on the head of this Committee and act as such. And if you will, I've been given political pressure by the authorities because I've been denied the opportunity to explain this report. Instead of rebelling against it as part of the opposition, you cooperated with them. Furthermore, I will say something about what it looked like only the action of the Committee that has been under various pressures and misinformations that are being made in the media, and the pressures that are being called political at the moment when someone is expressing their opinion, so it makes remarks on the work of the Ombudsman, which is the task of all of us to improve, criticism, except in the eyes of totalitarian minds, can be constructive, and therefore the remarks here are called political pressures. Obviously we all should have kept our mouths shut, obviously there are sacred cows that can't be touched. So, now I'm going to say something about things that I think should be more thought about in this Advocate's Report and that can be improved in that sense, that doesn't mean, right away I'm going to say that she should be questioned as such or generalised and rejected as you could have heard from her report before, there are a lot of positive things that should continue to work and that we need to talk about, but my task is as an opposition to question her actions and on this trail I'm going to say what needs to be improved. Namely, the proposal that the Annual Reports for the following period should be completed in certain segments, in a more transparent way to show the availability of financial resources of the Office, here is very gross and generally five activities, but not how much has been spent on concrete activities and 5 million kunas, we need transparency at all levels, for example some additional EUR 6.000,00 used to pay out to partner organisations, we do not know which organisations. The second question is the possibility of more effective handling complaints with the aim of improving work, rationalising, material and working resources, of 503 lawsuits being resolved 448, and discrimination is found only in 124 cases, or our citizens should work to inform them more about what discrimination is or to sort of rationalise business to see whether the lawsuits can be dropped even before they enter the procedure. Also, the part that was controversial and where I was tried to be silenced or told that this should not be dealt with regarding this sentence "in order to choose terminology more carefully in the Report" in my opinion, "they use values of neutral terms in sensitive topics". Namely, as we all know, the topic of abortion is particularly sensitive in our society. In order to at the same time be legalists, or to allow the existing right to abortion, but also democratic or non-discriminatory relations to different groups expressing their view of the right to abortion, it is necessary to carefully choose terminology. Valuable courts that I believe exist in this report, in my opinion, will not contribute to dialogue. And now I'm going to say which specifically value courts were involved. So, the lawyer received complaints about the anti-abortus campaigns taking place in public institutions, it is inappropriate to call them anti-abortus campaigns because no promoting the right to abortion is called a pro-abortus campaign but a right to a choice, such a type of qualification that is negative and which is the way the opposite party labels is not neutral as it should be, for example, a term they call themselves a campaign for life, but rather brings a certain value court. Similarly, to say that the promotion of such valuable views usually involves directly or indirectly labeling women who retain that health service to their own children's murderers, which is a form of emotional violence against patients, I believe that it is inappropriate to bear awareness of the struggle for life to declare women murderers, should condemn those who do so in certain cases because, under our law, this is allowed, but we cannot generalise the whole struggle for life of consciously declaring women murderers because it is a valuable condemnation of that struggle. It is also talked about ideologically inspired policies, neglecting the well-being of women and their reproductive health, those who fight for life will say that the situation is exactly the opposite, that they work for the benefit of women and offer them a haven to keep that life, and retrograde measures that I do not now count. Namely, what's the matter? My criticism is intended to be constructive, but after in democratic practice I have allowed all the members and members of the Committee to manifest themselves on the Attorney General's Report, and I have offered my own testimony for which I have prepared myself thoroughly. At the moment I began to talk about the use of termology which I consider not to be worth neutral, which concerns the right to abortion roughly and unexpectedly interrupted in half of a sentence by MP Rada Boric in the following statement, quote: "I am not sure that such a detailed report should be discussed. I don't think we should analyze every sentence, every quote, and we don't know where it is." So I was honored to analyze it too closely. My assumption that it was not a problem I was about in the analysis but in its content, or obviously there are MPs who believe that those who express a position that they disagree with simply need to shut up. But you won't be watching that movie. A detailed analysis is my job. For me, accepting the report is not a procedural matter of formal character that this has tried to be aware of while the content debate is clearly considered unusual, and a detailed debate in some and unnecessary. That's not how I'm gonna work. We are very well paid for our work and owe citizens a thorough reading of all reports and legal proposals to the final score. In order to create preconditions for a quality debate on abortion at all, it can only be done if we step out of our assigned positions and respect the opposite side without a prioritized qualification of its position. What I think is the case with the prosecutor on gender equality is that it's not about intentional labelling, it's about creating such a social climate that some type of discourse within some allegedly independent institutions is meant to be normal and neutral, and it's not really. This is what then creates a revolt on the opposite side, which is why different disinformations are created in the media, which is why she suffers in the extreme line and is a lawyer because her entire work is reduced to these several pages. Namely, here is a fundamental question and a suitable question on this Independence Day, do we have independent institutions, can we as part of the opposition criticise these institutions without being called to do political pressure, and we do not have power in our own hands, or are we to say that we will not talk about such details as was the case here and what can we do together to make these institutions as independent as possible? Namely, this time, the lawyer did not respect my arguments to improve the report, she remained on the report. I also think that this is a common bad practice in which it is understood that each of the smartest finishings is not common and that needs to be changed. However, trying to be honest, taking into account the full picture and the full work of the Ombudsman and the fact that we have just begun cooperation through which we hope to change and improve together, I will not vote against the report but will be restrained in good faith that until the next report we will create a climate in which we will be able to work together better on the welfare of society as a whole. In this context, it is necessary to focus on concrete and reasoned criticism in order to improve the overall creation of a precondition for the culture of dialogue that we will need in the subject of abortions that will soon come to the agenda. Equality of the position of democratisation of society is a struggle for democracy of society and a prerequisite for gender equality. On that trail, I congratulate you all on Independence Day.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8498	Thank you for the accuracy of time. There's no replicas for clubs. Mrs Dalia Oreskovic will speak in front of the IP, Smart and GLAS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8499	Dear Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Of all the acts we are discussing in HS, I personally prefer the discussions on reports, even when they are badly composed of them we can see all the anomalies of our system, and those well-assembled reports give the legislator all the necessary information and that the legislator cares about it on the basis of these reports could do whatever it takes to protect the public interest and the well-being of its citizens. If HS carefully studied all the reports received, reading what is written between the lines, then taking all those actions and actions that are within the jurisdiction of the legislative body, we would hardly need any special investigative committees ever. The system could be improved without it or perhaps we would never fall into this abyss where we are now under the criteria of democratic standards and the rule of law. Unfortunately, experience and practice show that HS insufficiently appreciates the information submitted to it by the competent state authorities and in this I personally see the irresponsibility and cowardice of the authorities. However, few of the reports are as high-quality and content-based as this report by the Advocate General for Gender Equality, not only because it contains the activities carried out by the Ombudsman but primarily because this report contains a demonstration of the specific cases and specific cases handled by the Ombudsman. Through them are intertwined all institutional and legislative weaknesses in all segments of social policy life. We will therefore report on behalf of the Party Club with Name and Surname, Smartly and GLAS, but we will also call on the Ombudsman to be more proactive and much louder in protecting and defending all those vulnerable groups who do not have the opportunity for their rights without adequate institutional support for the elections themselves. Although I admit, it is obvious that citizens have recognized this institution as one of those whom they can still address, and that is commendable. On this trail, I will point to a general impression that can be gained when it is seen how inconsistencies all our public policies are with regard to the treatment of women in family, social, economic and political life. Obviously, Croatian society and politics still cannot be determined by what women are expected to be and what this woman should actually be in Croatia. I'll give you just a few examples. All bells are being promoted as the state implements active policy measures. On the other hand, the state does not address the problem of the lack of gynaecological teams in the health care system, and is not devastating that the health situation is worse and worse year after year. That there is no optimal quality network of health services in the area of reproductive rights, I think it's our biggest national tax. It says that the woman in this society is at the bottom of the food chain. Furthermore, motherhood is said to be protected as a special category. But on the other hand, we have a whole series of examples that show that some of the women during the use of those self - employment incentive measures remained in a different state, and at the same time lost their incentives and support, they had to go through an entire administrative hell to protect and return some of their rights. Examples also show that in cases of domestic violence in each of them, which are quite dramaticly described, there is a lack of sensitivity for the victim and a lack of recognition of the pattern of long-term family violence, too mild punishment for the perpetrator and non-recognition of causality in the cause and consequences. All this sends messages to the system to all women regardless of what role they have played in society, that the system obviously expects them to be meek. This is witnessed by a low rate of women’s work activity, a high degree of economic dependence on family members, an imbalance between business and private life, which negatively affects employment, an unfair division of gender roles, as women are expected to take care of the family and to the harm of their professional career. Furthermore, insufficient measures involving women in the labour market, poor and insufficient public services and services to parents in raising families. This entire report testifies to the inconsistency and contradiction of public policies, the poor system solutions that make women, even in those neutral legal norms, very often put into a subordinate position. And therefore, if the information on yesterday's events on the Committee on Gender Equality is correct, I would also like to extend a personal commendation to the Ombudsman. If the question was indeed asked whether it would amend its report in accordance with those instructions and requirements made by the chairman of that committee, and the answer was no, and for this one determined no, I believe that this report should be commended above all others. And why is that? Well, because I said, obviously, the system expects women to be meek, and this example shows one other characteristic of women, which is that they can be professional, that they can put their integrity first, and that's when it's most needed. I'll go one step further, and I'll say that on the public stage we need those more drastically rebellious women, those who are insubordinate to unfounded authorities and the system as such. Because one is not the best thing to do is to encourage all those women whose family, business environment, social community, they expect to be just the rapes that someone else is going to impose with which their rapes as content should be fulfilled. Attorney General, I congratulate you. We will support your report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8500	Thank you. Now it's my colleague Veljko Kajtazi's turn in front of the National Minority Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8501	Dear Vice-President HS, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected lawyers with associates and other representatives of institutions. I once again congratulate you on your election, or on this eight-year term, and I believe or hope it will be as successful as your first. I'd like to point out a few figures right from the start. For example, 503 cases were complaints about the protection of citizens and citizens against discrimination. That's an increase of 9.8% compared to the previous year. I don't know if that's the result of what's gotten worse or more people deciding to report discrimination, which would actually be an indicator of your good work. Not to repeat now the figures that are visible from the report, I will only point out that this trend is persistent in a negative sense. What is positive is that the Ombudsman sent a total of 293 written recommendations, 160 warnings and 131 proposals. This trend of respecting its warnings, recommendations and proposals to 89.3% of cases is fully and 7.1% in part, which is also good. I am pleased that the Ombudsman points out that she gives special attention to the problem of earlier marriages and underage pregnancies in the Roma national minority and that she generally deals with the Roma minority. However, it is only part of the wider problem and the one most often mentioned, which adds to the Roma community. Speaking of Roma, I'm going to mention a few more figures that are mentioned in the report, which well depict the difficult position of the Roma national minority. For example, scholarships for students were used by only 31 members of the Roma national minority, of which 19 women. This data once again confirms my thesis that young Roma women should only be given the opportunity to show better results than men in the education system. The upcoming census will show that Roma is at least 30,000 in our country, and in this entire largely young population only 30 students without those resident in the City of Zagreb. It's really defeating. In the last term, I influenced the increase in scholarships, and I spoke to a number of universities, universities and universities, and sought positive discrimination and additional scholarships, but unfortunately there is not enough support for institutions. The need for positive discrimination and enhanced scholarship should not be specifically discussed, it is only necessary to conclude that 0.3% of Roma have some kind of higher education. I'll take this opportunity to introduce you once more, once again to some particular data. According to official data, we are now 31. 12. In 2019, a total of 11 members of the Roma national minority were employed in the Government of Croatia's offices, which is 0.02%. At local level, the authorities of local units that are obliged to hire Roma are not employed by any Roma. What I am sorry, and what the Ombudsman points out, is that there are not many projects that were directly targeted at Roma women as a target group when looking at project financing aimed at improving the position of women to members of national minorities. As a positive example, I would like to set out the Office for Human Rights and Rights of the National Minorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which in March 2019 started implementing the project to meet the preconditions for effective implementation of policies aimed at national minorities, phase 1. I've already said several times it's late, but welcome projects. I am extremely pleased that the problem of Roma has finally been approached seriously, scientifically and analytically, and that, in the light of relevant publications, we now have an overview of the many important problems we have been warning about for years. I must also say that the Operational Programme for National Minorities has been going this way since 2016, and I expect that by the end of this mandate we will also have significant steps in the area of education and the position of all members of the Roma national minority on the basis of concrete intervention plans in areas populated by Roma. I hope that the availability of this data will also raise the responsibility of the institution for these problems, that the recommendations contained in the publications in the press releases of the Office for Human Rights will also reflect political decisions, but that the Roma community will recognise that in 2020 we cannot move forward unless the problems listed here are changed for the better. The latest publications confirmed the following - Roma are a young population with an average of 22 years and that makes up 50% of the Roma community. A woman without a school is twice as much as a man. And most of them are inactive or domestic. The employees are mostly on temporary and occasional seasonal affairs. Roma households are large, on average 5.2 members. Monthly admissions to more than 92% of Roma households at risk of poverty and amount to just over 2 and a half thousand kuna in developed regions of our country, mainly in the north. Even 85% of households use social services, and 1/3 Roma live in ruins and inadequate facilities. Most of them live in segregated settlements with no social content more than 70%. Romanian women are too illiterate, even 17.3% while the overall average is 1.3. Giving up school is a huge problem in general, and in these two groups even bigger. Schools are given up because of financial situations, marriages, poor educational results, and the existence of parents. Pregnancy in this sense, and especially that minor who is represented in 50% of cases, is a huge problem that we have no answer to today. When you count all of this even though it comes to the conclusion that the chances of integration in the society of women are extremely low and that only 8% of Roma women perform some kind of paid work. As a result, Roma women in Croatia are in a European context in the worst position compared to all other European Union countries. Physical, verbal, and economic violence are important problems that we do not have a coordinated answer to. Only 19% of young people have high school, mostly three-year-old schools. Drug consumption and other opiates are also present, and discrimination is more present in mixed environments than in exclusive Roma schools, which is also worrying because it shows the bad consequences of segregation and outcomes in this context, but also the resistance of the majority population to Roma who are viewed in discrimination, speech and hatred that young people put in a position between two fires between their own communities that often do not approve of their progress and those on the other hand who cannot or do not want to understand them. That is why everyone who can do this no longer wants to be Roma and wants not only integration, but assimilation, which is bad for the whole community in the long term. It is important to say that these recommendations are now in the hands of the government and that I expect that after this, Roma problems will be more difficult to ignore and more quickly address. I am glad that so far the activities of the Roma Union in the Republic of Croatia Kali Sara have gone in the direction of recommendations contained here, but I must say that it is not enough, but it is necessary to achieve greater coordination among institutions, but also to encourage the cooperation of institutions both with the alliance and with other Roma representatives more intensively than before. Such a way has proved to be a good model for solving problems. I am sure that through my work I will use this data and even more strongly lobby that these problems are registered in all important strategic documents, but also in the activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as an institution which, by example, should show all the lower levels that these problems are very important. Finally, in the report we are discussing today, we reaffirm that the Roma population in all aspects is in a multiple unfavourable position compared to the majority population, while Roma women are in an additionally unfavourable position compared to the Roma. To show that in recent decades, the progress of the Republic of Croatia on the number of Roma and Roma women involved in general compulsory education has been visible and evident, while the scope of Roma children was particularly smaller in the past than in other countries, today in Croatia, these figures are even slightly larger. However, Croatia is still lagging behind in participating in high school education as part of preschool education. The World Bank published a report from 2019, which concerns among others the situation of Roma women in Croatia. It noted that they have the lowest rate of paid work in Southeast Europe, which is even a little optimistic from what the Human Rights Office has come up with. It should also be reiterated that the percentage of Roma women who have completed high school is very low on data from the same document. Such a situation is not only characteristic of Croatia, but other EU countries face the same problems Which shows how much more work we've got ahead of us. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8502	Thank you. It is now up to Mrs. Karolina Vidovic Kristo to speak in front of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8503	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here a report on the work of the lawyer for gender equality for 2019. In a document of 333 pages, most of the contents relate, not to the work of the Ombudsman, but to the statistics, views and recommendations of the Ombudsman in certain areas, for example. work and employment, healthcare, etc. The annual report is not a seminar work with the Ombudsman with interesting data and recommendations that he wants to import into an attractively tailored document. Why am I saying that? Because among the 333 pages of statistical data, views and recommendations of the Ombudsman are only 6 pages dedicated to the activities of the same for 2019. And it's just taxing listed on pages 5 and 9 to 13. The question is raised so that 365 days of work of an institution, and the Ombudsman is an institution in this case that employs 11 employees and has a budget of 6.802,505 kuna, so that we can evaluate the year-long work of one such institution on the basis of 6 pages. This is to agree with too little data for a serious analysis of the work and activities of the Advocate's Office for Gender Equality. Therefore, the Ombudsman should repeat the report and show in more detail how, when, what she did and why she did and how the money of Croatian taxpayers was spent. Otherwise, it can be assumed that a huge amount of any statistical data is used to fill pages and possibly conceal insufficient activity. The Ombudsman's report discusses 1,122 quotes of the case opened on the Ombudsman's initiative to monitor the application of the Law on Gender Equality. However, the list of cases shows that these are not cases or cases of violations of gender equality that the Ombudsman has been dealing with, but activities of its office in areas of statistical data collection, cooperation with associations and bodies, etc. These misnamed items were placed on the same level as the cases on the citizens' complaint, so I quote in the report, during 2019 it was a total of 1,719 cases, which is actually a manipulative data that does not correspond to facts. In addition, it is not clear and structured that the Ombudsman and her office worked in these 1.142 cases, some activity data are scattered in the sea of statistics in the further 300 pages, and it is difficult to find and assess them. It is sad that in a world where we live in a large number of underpaid, disbursed, mobbing women who have children and families are exposed, precisely because they have children and family. It is regrettable that by the Ombudsman for gender equality the topic of protection at the workplace of pregnant women, mothers, women in many families is not recognised as one of the key battlefields in the fight for gender equality. Instead of the right to adequately paid employment, job protection and the right to a peaceful and secure pregnancy and motherhood in this report, I read for example. as the Advocate General for Gender Equality, a whole paragraph on page 269 addressed these words, recommendations for the right to terminate pregnancy. There is no human or constitutional right to terminate pregnancy, but there is a human and constitutional right to life. Plead for it, in all and in the Croatian Constitution, you will be on the right track because many women who want to give birth to their child often fear that they will not be able to care for it, often get discouraged from their surroundings, often from the father of a child. There are people and organizations who help these women, for example, an initiative for 40 days for the life that you mention in your report. Fight for the equality and rights of these women because as they say, who saves one life saved the whole world.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8504	Now it's Mr. Silvano Hrelja, who will speak for the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8505	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, it seems to me that at the beginning of each term we should agree on what begins with this mandate because it does not begin with this mandate, at least I can testify, there was debate and debate and the attorney for gender equality reports, I must say that all the reports so far have been good, all of which pointed to system errors, all of which pointed to the defects prescribed in the laws, but there was little will to correct it. I also publicly commend this report and the Croatian Peasant Party Club and Croatian Foreign Pensioners will support this, this report, but I am afraid that next year we will be the same target, the same distance. You know, I've talked many times from this pay phone, and I'm frustrated that nothing really, or very little of 100, maybe 1% changes in relationships. The equality seems to me that there is no significant shift despite the media, despite our speeches, despite the recommendations, despite the directives and I don't think there will be any...... and that it won't be better because I know young people in their 20s who are more conservative than double, triple and multiple older people, and they don't realize that we have to understand each other, that we have to respect each other first as human beings, that we have to be at our aid and that we can't be without each other. Everything else isn't about building a society. It's about destruction. The difficulties of women in my youth were one thing, today some others are, but there are always some who discriminate, one that disappears, but others appear which, on the long term, generate the consequences, but not only the consequences, but also the suffering, and the suffering, and the poverty, not to mention the worst, and that is the violence of every species that is on the rise. We all know that everything comes from home, from home, from education, is being upgraded in kindergarten, in school, in society, at work, but the laws of good laws that are passed in this House and which are enforceable are most important. Those who are unambiguous, those who are clear and do not allow different interpretations of each individual. Such laws should be passed here, laws that allow, laws that protect and some laws that correct what is already wrong and harmful in our society. The laws we pass not in any way but in a comprehensive analysis of social relations, sociological phenomena based on our experiences and objectives set, I repeat, and set goals. Are we a society of goals? No, we like to be copyists. We liked how others did it, so let's get this over with. No, no, a parliament that prescribes laws, which does not pass laws in accordance with the objectives set by this society and where it wants to go, is not a good Parliament. I can be self-critical for all my years in this House. Birth inequality in pensions, already mentioned today, is constantly mentioned as a consequence. What's the cause? The whole series of unfavourable conditions women face during working life, less paid jobs, labour market shortages due to pregnancy and inaccessibility of services, child care and the elderly, working for a certain time the highest in the EU, the highest in women than in men, the burden of course to unpaid always unpaid household jobs. Although it is better to address any problem in the root, to deal with harmful causes in order not to have adverse consequences, we in HSU consider it useful and we are programmed and invited mainly to address the consequences because we are mostly concerned with pension laws and rights. In a report by women and men in 2019, the State Statistics Institute reported that average male pensions are 26% higher than women's pensions. We therefore have several proposals to prevent the gender gap in pensions and reduce the risk of female poverty at age. I'm giving out three, mother's allowance. The proposal of HSU is to introduce the category of the 6-month-ahead internship per child on 2019 to all mothers. What do you think of that woman who took a family pension because she didn't work 30% less than what the late husband was taking, and she gave birth to two children, that supplement at the time when she became a pension beneficiary of 70 kuna, or for 70 kuna for two children, this country would be ruined? Would you like to suck the budget? You wouldn't. And why only those mothers after January 1, 2019? What are these others not mothers? It is our proposal that all mothers should receive living, receive a motherly supplement and that is a failure of pension reform that started on 1 January 2019 and that is discrimination and it is discriminatory in that law. The second and third proposals are related, so family pensions. After the death of the spouse of the surviving widow and 93% of them, remember this number of 93% of family pensioners are women. Reduce your pension by most because their less, than their husbands, are bigger, when they reduce by 30% by 50, 100, 200, 300 or more kunas than personal pensions. So, only 7% stays in their pension and doesn't use a family pension. So the first proposal is to increase it from 70% to 80%, the second is to use 93% of the cases and 50% of the deceased spouse's pensions so that women don't fall into the poverty zone. We suggest this with the aim of reducing poverty, so that 70 becomes 80% and that if it is more favourable to take your pension and 50% of the deceased spouse, it is a choice between more favourable or most favourable rights. Here, this is HSU's contribution to combating poverty and gender equality. And finally, just to ask, I've read all the recommendations, do we have much use for recommendations that we don't meet? We don't, but you know the D.A.'s in charge, whose? The mandater of HS and what the Ombudsman is not allowed to comment on the bill or not to say openly that it is good, and that is not good for the citizens, is bad for this home. So, ma'am. Attorney General, we at HSU on behalf of a large number of pensioners and the poor are counting on your help in assessing our bill. Not because we're pretty and smart, but to study the arguments that stand inside. with a certain purpose. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8506	Thank you. And in the end, as far as the MPs' club is concerned, it's the IDS Representatives' Club and it's going to be Mrs. Katarina Nemet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8507	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. In this address, I will briefly comment on the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality that we are discussing today. There is a series of individual data, problem points and general elements of the report that could be analysed and commented in detail if they had some more time to do so. However, I can first of all say that in my opinion the report is very extensive and well prepared, and to a good extent it illustrates the state of things in our society regarding gender equality. It shows where we made some shifts, and where there's still room for progress or where we completely failed. In particular, this report shows well in the section of which analyses of the situation in certain areas are cited, from employment and work through gender-based violence, education and media, to, for example, women's participation in politics. What particularly falls into the eyes is a huge disproportionate pay gap as one of the major gender discriminatory problems that arise in the labour market. Analysis shows that women have less salary than male colleagues in as many as 16 of the 19 areas of activity. This is just one example that then raises other problems, and similar discriminatory examples, unfortunately there are more. When we talk about this report, one logical question arises, whether it ultimately has its purpose as it should be, primarily in the future problem-solving that exists, and which is also detected by this report. Will this report be some kind of basis for a platform for the future consistent application of the Law on Gender Equality and Other Anti-discrimination Regulations, and whether the financial, human and material capacities of the Advocate's Office are sufficient to ensure and, as well as, to operate on current legal and sublegislative acts, or will the report in fact remain a dead letter on paper after this assembly debate and the likely adoption? It depends, of course, on the interest of the general public, on the interest and engagement of all of us who can and must influence the formation of public policies, primarily on the interest of state institutions headed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and how much this involvement and interest expressed at the level of the state government institutions may be sufficiently speaking about how the latest national gender equality policy was adopted for the period 2011 to 2015, and currently there is no current strategic document in the Republic of Croatia dealing with gender equality. And for the end of this address in terms of gender equality and women's rights, I would like to remind myself of one very important right of every living thing, including women, right to health. In addition to yesterday's National Day for Combating Breast Cancer, I want to stress from this place the importance of prevention, and call on all women to take care of their health and their lives to carry out this extremely important preventive review. We are under specific circumstances when due to the pandemic of the covida health system doing reduced capacities, but do not let it be an obstacle and an additional apology or in order to likablely order a motto of this year's action to which the club of women treated with breast cancers Gea from Pula invites women to perform a preventive mammographic examination that says no... The Istrians understood, and for the rest of the simple translation, when health and life are at stake there is no delay. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8508	Thank you very much. Short and summed up, you and Mrs. Kristo, let the men learn from you. - Mrs. Crescent. Mariana Petir is the first to speak for herself in fact as a representative individually. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, MPs and counsellors, respected attorneys with associates, representatives of the government. In my presentation, I will look back on the small segment of this report, which is dedicated to women in the rural area, and the research we have on their position has become obsolete and we know that their position has not changed, they are...... still outside of all relevant public policies, so I think it is necessary to pro-actively approach this problem and take further continuous measures to develop a national strategy that would refer to the position of women in rural areas. The situation of women in rural areas is worrying, and that is why I have raised them to a European level and I have been the rapporteur of the European Parliament precisely on their role in rural areas, and I would like to warn that the problems of women living in rural areas are real and to understand them, we also need to understand their diverse role. They care about family, protect tradition and the environment, work in agriculture which is one of the most important economic branches, each country participates in the food production process. Women in rural areas are invaluable, valuable to their agricultural family economies, and the development of entrepreneurship, craftsmanship, sustainable development and overall economic development are also important. None of the Member States so far nor, unfortunately, Croatia has introduced a thematic sub-programme for women in rural areas such as young farmers, which has been issued, now 50,000 euros and in the future programme period as much as 100,000 euros in support, although a similar sub-programme is foreseen for women to the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. What does that tell us? This is actually telling us, and this is an indication that women in rural areas are simply invisible and not valued enough because these programmes could be directed towards the sale of product promotion at local and regional level, given that these sub-programmes can be important for the opening of new jobs for women in rural areas and can also be used as investment in physical property, the development of agricultural holdings and business for basic services and rural restoration. We know that women in the country do not have good access to education, that there are poor information literacy, internet availability because at a very low level. Due to the distance of a specialist doctor, inaccessible diagnostics in most cases, women only go to the doctor at a further stage, which is unfortunately too late for them sometimes. In the village most often there is no adequate social communal and social infrastructure that is necessary for a dignified life. According to data, women account for less than 50% of the total working age population in rural areas of the EU, manage only 30% of the OPGs and the situation in Croatia is similar. They generate 35% of total working time in agriculture, a significant contribution to agricultural production and, in addition, care for families and households in their economies, which we can characterise as invisible work. They are often economically dependent on their husband, there is no working time for them, they are struggling with a lack of basic social and pension rights, almost half of them never go on vacations and to a very small extent participate in decision-making at local and regional level. They also need to facilitate access to land and ensure all social rights that they currently do not have because their work on the OPGs is not recognised and evaluated, so it is necessary to regulate the professional status of rural women and that is something I stand for and for which I expect and from you support. In particular, I would like to warn that women in the country who have spent their whole life in agriculture and household, have no income at all in their old age, are exposed to poverty, and if domestic abuse occurs, given that they do not have any income, often have no place to go, so I would like to advocate that you should pay particular attention to this group of women who are obviously invisible to the whole system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8510	Thank you, too. Stay, you have one replica, Mr. Crucifix.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8511	Dear colleague Petir, I agree with everything you've said, I'd just like to hear from you as to how you look at this issue that's been raised on abortion-related terminology, is it valuelessly neutral, or is it partly ideologically colored, and what is your opinion on the work of a lawyer and reports on fostering children by same-sex couples? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8512	Here you go, answer me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8513	Thank you, fellow Members, for the commendation of my presentation and for agreeing with me, as you know, I consider the right to life to be a fundamental human right, and I therefore consider that the termology used not only in this report but also in some other form of documents, goes beyond the usual and personally acceptable to me. I think that all of us, all of us who are on public duty, and this applies to the defenders, should be kept from falling into any traps of belonging or understanding the belongings of promoting any kind of ideology, so when it comes to gender ideology, then it should also be avoided. Of course, I'm in favour of protecting everyone's human dignity and that here and the attorneys need to take account of it, but the role of attorney is to maintain neutrality over everything. and protect the rights and human dignity of everyone in the same way. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8514	Thank you. Thank you, no more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8515	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Ombudsman with an associate, co-workers from the ministries, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a report from the Ombudsman on gender equality for the past 2019, this is about one large material on over 300 pages, and I will remain on two topics. One topic is, and about this, these two topics I'm going to try to do a little bit in this time that I have to talk about in more detail. One topic is the ratio of wages and pensions between women and men in Croatia, and another topic is related to one of I would dare to say the most harmful decisions ever made in Croatian politics, and it is related to the measure of parent educator in the City of Zagreb. So, the first topic is this sad information about the pay gap between women and men. When we see, we see that it is almost 13% in Croatia, when we turn it into certain figures then it means that approximately every month about 1,100 kuna gross wages will get more men for their work than women, which is at your level of 13,000 kuna. We all like to deal with percentages, but when we put it in real frames and really see what it's about. It is worrying and sad and shows that we are not as smart as the country in using the knowledge and abilities available to us so that even in activities where more women are numbered men have significantly higher wages. From this we can read that these cases are also men who have taken their leading positions. Let's say they're good-looking percentages, and they say that women in management have 14 commas of them talking to stock companies is 14.39%, and in supervisory committees there are 21%. We often say that we are worse in the EU, but then we must say that when it comes to this pay gap that the European average is 16%, so we are not so bad, but that does not mean that we should relax. It also doesn't mean that we don't have to do everything together, we all work together to change the legislation. This pay gap, reportedly leads to another worse and more dangerous difference, which is the difference in pensions. The difference in pensions between women and men at the moment is 22%. And that awful number is actually talking about the next one. Yes, at an older age, women are at far greater risk of poverty. This risk is increasing, of course, that life's age is greater. And now I'm going to do something about what the lawyer in her speech was talking about, which is about the extent of being a parenter in Zagreb. So 5,000 families, 5,000 women are to that extent. The measure, at the level of a year, is allocated from the Zagreb budget to 500 million kuna. 500 million kuna is the budget of the town of Koprivnica and perhaps another municipality, we are talking about. By having 3 children and more children in Zagreb, there are about 13,000 families, and 5,000 families use that measure. For this measure it would be possible to build in Zagreb, so to build 10 completely new kindergartens. But that measure says two more things. This measure can benefit women from not being allowed to work, women are not allowed to do so, and then we say in the context that after a certain number of years that a woman will be able to come to the labour market at all, but children must not go to the nursery, they must not go to kindergarten either. So, on the one hand, we advocate the socialization of children, we advocate women where they go to the labour market, and on the other hand, such a city policy has decided to spend 500 million kunas at the level of a year so that women do not work, that they are not capable of the labour market, and children do not go to kindergartens and mangers. It's a good thing what the D.A. said on 300 pages, but it's customary for the D.A. to speak pretty abstentionally and very diplomaticly. It seems to me that she would often have to go a little louder and a little louder. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8516	Thank you very much, but stay here, stay here. Mrs. Selak Rasudiæ, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8517	I must ask you a question about the position of your club. Namely, I can't stop laughing and can't be surprised enough by what's been said on behalf of your club, and that's a congratulator's card to quote the brave no, which is said on the proposal, one proposal of opposition, I'll remind you that the principal, that the attorney has appointed the ruling majority so that it is nominally independent part of the ruling nomenclature. So, on the opposition proposals and the question of whether any of this can be appreciated that its report is being amended, which should be a good democratic practice for all of us not getting into it, whether you agree with the content or not, why you congratulate the Ombudsman for not wanting to respect opposition proposals and how it is possible that at the moment when opposition is the minority responsible for questioning such institutions you congratulate her on her courage instead of congratulating the opposition for asking questions and questioning the work of any state body.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8518	Thanks, time, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8519	Mrs. Selak Rasdic, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8520	Excuse me, Mrs. Dark Tarritash, I must say. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8521	Okay, can I do it now? I can, thank you very much. Mrs. Selak Rasudiæ you expect me to comment on what someone told them without having a chance to hear it, nor did I have a chance to participate in it. All right, so But first of all, we don't need to talk like this. [[Intruder: Please without dialogue, dialogues are not allowed.]] So I don't want to comment at all on who's being told what, but the report is public, the attorney's report is there, you can accept this report, you can refuse, you can have comments on this report, you can comment on these remarks on the name of the club, you can comment on it in your individual debate, but there's no custom to correct the attorney's report after it gets here, the report is how it is, it talks about work and the attorney and the whole............ the whole of her team that works, works with it and good custom are not correcting the report or we accept it, or we reject it, or we're abstentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8522	There he is, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Did you see, I gave you five seconds more for the intruder?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8523	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8524	Gentlemen, Mr. Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8525	Dear Representative Dark Taritash. I agree with you in the first part of the presentation, everything you've presented, I disagree with the attitude around parenting. As I understand the essence of this institution, parent parent is not some prize to people who have three and more children, but it is one option provided to parents, in practice it is more often used by women, to choose to stay with children and be at home with children, and I don't think it is necessary to humiliate that choice, it is important that parents, most often women in practice, have the freedom to choose whether they will commit themselves to careers or as something, their choice and more importantly, see to be with children, or husband if they do so. And since you're talking about savings, I'm interested in your opinion on the possibility of joining our attorneys in an Office that practice is in ten European countries, let's say France combined them all in 2011, the calculation is to make 25 million kuna savings happen. Do you think that's a good idea?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8526	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8527	Thank you very much, dear colleague Rasdic. I'll start at the end then I'll finish with that question of yours, so the merger in one office is practice in some countries, when we talk about saving 25 million kunas,... there very often we read to different millions, I, I would do much more and it would be more important for me to do with it, which information we want to get, give us something more quality, better, if it would be better for our citizens, if they would be able to meet their demands better than it is when they are... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's not the first time, such a, such a request, it requires a broader discussion and through this broad debate we'll hope to come up with a good solution, but when it comes to a parent raiser all, all people who have three and more children should be able to use the same measure, it can't be for 1/3 people, and 2/3 can't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8528	Thank you very much. Thank you. Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8529	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleague Dark Taritash. So I would also refer to your exposure exactly on the parent-teacher measure and which you somehow characterized negatively. I've been reading women's testimony and I'd like to share it with you now, so maybe you can change your mind. So, the woman got fired when she was on maternity leave, so she decided to use this measure, the other woman worked her whole life on shifts for 20 years, and she could never be with her children, so this measure was an absolute rescue, and the woman unfortunately found herself in such a situation that her husband left her and left her with the children, was a single mother, and the child support was not paid, and this measure helped her greatly. Today we live in a time when we need as many positive and encouraging demographic measures as possible because Croatia is dying out, so I don't see the problem to this extent, it would be good to put out through these discussions more new measures that would in fact encourage a demographic restoration of Croatia because it guarantees the future of our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8530	Thank you. Thank you, time. Thank you very much. Thank you. Mrs. Dark Taritash's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8531	Thank you very much. So it's about the extent used by five thousand, slightly more than five thousand families, and which is from the City of Zagreb's budget at the level of 500 million kuna a year, it's about that kind of measure. So at this point, eight thousand families who have three and more children are paying the City of Zagreb budget not to talk about all those, so that five thousand could benefit. Absolutely all measures are welcome, but this measure is a benefit and consumption absolutely does not match each other. It's hard for me to talk about individual cases, I hope you're well aware of that measure and you know that it's a measure that's about 15 years old, which means some women who get into it won't be able to get into the labour market anymore, but is it a question that this budget will be able to withstand? Will the budget be able to handle it in general?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8532	Thank you. Time. And you don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8533	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8534	Mrs. Branka Juričev Martinchev. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8535	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, esteemed attorneys with associates, respected secretary of state, secretary of state, co-workers and colleagues. So this report on the work of the lawyer for gender equality for 2019 as well as all the other reports that come to us on the assembly benches should give us information, introduce us to the most common, with the biggest problems so that we can contribute to our proposals, to certain legal proposals a better, fairer, more equal life for all our citizens of both sexes. The Ombudsman, as stated in the report, also addressed various state bodies, institutions, media 293 recommendations, 160 warnings, 131 proposals. One of the topics was the pay and pension gap and proposed to consider measures to remove elements of the gap resulting from lower incomes at the time of use of leave for the purpose of parental and other care. For this very reason, a category of additional internship has been introduced, so we know that now the possibility is that each mother has the right to an additional 6 months of internship and about 2% more for each child born or adopted, since 01 January 2021 a new, new institute of national compensation for older people, which will again be used in most cases by women who, for various reasons, have not been able to achieve at least a minimum of work experience. In the area of the lawyer's work, she pointed out that one of the main reasons why women's less employment is not an appropriate policy in the area of balance between business and private life. That's why the previous government built or restored 500 kindergartens, introduced two-way work into 96 kindergartens. The European funds financed extended kindergarten work and employed 836 breeders. It itself states that it encourages the fact that demographic and intelligent policy has an important place in the programmes of the current government. Furthermore, the Ombudsman states that there was a trend in a significant increase in the number of persons complaining of sexual harassment and that there was a trend in the growth of the number of anonymous complaints. For this reason, the Penal Code and the Law on Protection against Family Violence have been amended in order to strengthen legal policy. As a woman in politics, I must express that regret that we still have a negative trend in media reporting, which includes showing and evaluating women in politics based on their physical appearance and style of dress. Although the prosecutor developed an agreement and guidelines for sensitive reports of violence against women, the agreement was signed by about 13 media houses, but old habits and old practices are still present. How really the weather's going so fast I'm going to have to cut a little bit short. What I would like to express here is my great indignation over every hasty title, a published article where it was subsequently found to be a false accusation. We have recent articles, he says, "The resignation of the Croatian Association of Employers for the application of sexual harassment. Ten anonymous applications also included criminal charges, and then after a few months sexual abuse was staged to bring down the leadership of the Croatian Employers' Association. The alleged victim denied the charges." What is this abuse of his position about? Is that where the perpetrators will be sanctioned? Is that a hate crime, too? Are the same rights when we have on one side the word false sacrifice, and on the other side we destroy life, family, marriage, they all get social and business stigma? I would ask all of us here because we would be very happy to especially wish if it comes to some of our insinuating members of the other party calling that we should all report together, and condemn every form of violence, but when calling out for parliamentary representatives, the lawyer and the media that before we accuse ourselves of making sure that anything is really done, whether it's true or just false accusations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8536	Thank you. Four replicas. Mrs. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8537	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs, the report by our attorney shows us a real situation found on the ground that shows us what our society is really like and the problems our citizens face. As you yourself have called the report, it contains a series of recommendations from the Ombudsman herself, and that is how it has been repeated for years. Does this mean, what is your opinion, does this mean that we are doing too little work on implementing the framework we already have?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8538	I think I just, uh... ... /Invader Nikolic:
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8539	That it's actually defeated, and I'm actually pointing out in the replica that the recommendations have been repeated for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8540	Dialogues are not allowed. When you're done with the question, there's no further dialogue. Here you go, Mrs. Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8541	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I think I've just been in my debate and told when the pay gap and pensions were being talked about by the previous government. So we also have a new category of extra internship, a new National Compensation Institute, a far greater set aside for kindergartens, and 96 kindergartens have been introduced two-way work. But it is up to all of us to remember this report and these recommendations when discussing new legislative proposals and to make our contribution both in the debate and through amendments so that, as I pointed out in the opening part, our lives to our fellow citizens would be more fair and equal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8542	Mrs. Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8543	Thank you. Here I would like to ask you how you explain the fact that your party has had no respect for the women's quota on the electoral lists for years, and that it is also mandatory to pay fines that are probably not your problem because you're getting funds from the state budget anyway, and then you spend those funds on paying the fines for women's quotas. So when HDZ talks about gender equality, it's the same thing as boasting that they are the pillars of fighting corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8544	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8545	Well, a woman's question can only be the answer that I'm sorry she doesn't have any more wives. But you must also admit that the Croatian Democratic Community also had a wife prime minister and wife president and we have prominent seats in Europe just as our wife from Mrs Dubravka Šujica, Ivana Maletic, Marija Pejcinović, Kostelic so that the replacements in the Croatian Parliament were also women's quotas. I am sure that in due course, our wife will show in the next election that we will not break the women's quota.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8546	Thank you very much. Mrs. Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8547	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow MPs, often here from part of our MPs and MPs, we hear that the reports are mostly the same, the Ombudsman's reports and that recommendations are not respected and that there is no movement. You just took out the part in support of motherhood, support for the use of maternity and parental benefits, measures and efforts by the Government to coordinate family and business life,... kindergartens and other measures, two-way work in kindergartens, construction of new kindergartens, efforts to, influencing the use and support of fathers for maternity discount and many measures, I think we're almost there. in the corner with [[Intruder: Thank you]] highly developed European countries. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8548	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8549	Thank you very much. My colleague Murganic, I have just taken this brief statement and I have looked back on everything the government has done in the previous term, but I must say that the attorney-in-law has also pointed out that the encouraging fact that demographic and intelligent policy has an important place in the programmes of the current government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8550	- Mrs. Crescent. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8551	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues, you have devoted one part of your exposure to the media. You have dedicated not only to the media but we are absolutely inclined to accuse when it is all over, there is no water, nor will the Adriatic Sea wash someone and prove that something is different. But my thinking is different. So we all women who are in public space always face the same problem of being characterized either by the looks or the way we're dressed, and much less by what we're talking about, what we stand for, what our attitudes are. Are we ready, no matter what side of this assembly we sit on, left, right, right, right, in the middle, to stand together at one point and say that there is an initiative of all parliamentary deputies no matter what the party is and to do something about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8552	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8553	Thank you very much. My colleagues Mrak-Taritash, so here as vice-president of the Assembly Committee on Gender Equality, I have to say that at the first and second sessions we are somehow going in the same direction, but then here's our colleague, this morning we have witnessed this, President Selak Rasudiæ and his colleague Dalia are going to have a big heated debate, and I think that all together we should at least have the same agreement and be equally active in protecting women's rights regardless of which side of the pay phone and conference room we come from.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8554	Thank you very much. You have no more replicas. Let's move on, Mrs. Devereaux. Katica Glamuzina, here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8555	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Advocates, colleagues and colleagues. The report we heard, thank you, is both commendable and worrying. Commendably, because of its comprehensiveness and clear enormous commitment to the work of Ombudsman Višnja Ljubicic, and worrying because it shows some unpleasant internationally measurable truths about how many problems in this area in Croatia are being treated as insufficiently relevant. This is already evident from one of the first data mentioned in the report, one which speaks of a 10% increase in complaints about protection against discrimination which, as in earlier years, as convincingly most of them refer to the protection of women. In particular, I would like to highlight and commend the Ombudsman's commitment to constantly applying to projects. However, as is done by the prosecutor and by numerous authorities, the state administration could apply to similar projects, unfortunately they do not. Each year projects to which the Ombudsman is applying and which are being managed are being taken into account by the extent of the burning problems in the area of gender equality. The report shows that the Ombudsman was the holder of an EU project dealing with the role of police, justice and media in cases of violence against women with special emphasis on femicidal cases. Since it is known that the biggest problem in the fight against violence lies in the inability of adequate implementation of the Istanbul Convention in the field of justice, it is clear that this kind of education was necessary. The second EU's defence attorney project is called "equal rights, equal wages, equal pensions". Since the average wage gap is almost 13%, in pensions 21.5%, it is clear that this project is also very well targeted because women of older age in single households are those most affected by poverty in Croatia. And in order to make it easier to understand, I'm going to tell you that this means that when a pensioner gets a pension from, for example, 2,500 kuna, pensioner gets 500 kuna less. Until we deal with the poverty of older people, especially women, this problem will last, and unfortunately this government has not offered any mechanisms to address the problem. In its report, the Ombudsman also points to a major problem regarding the difference in male and female employment rates of over 10%. In this regard, I am interested in what measures is the government taking to reduce these trends, and where are the measures and activities targeted for women who would be encouraged by their employment and employability rate, and to curb the insecure status of their jobs? I hope that the ruling party will not work on this with the same commitment with which they have not even respected the minimum legal obligation, the women's quotas on their election lists in recent elections. It was an opportunity to set a good example, but it was easier to pay more than half a million kuna. On International Women's Day in the report year, the prime minister said I quote, equality between men and women is the fundamental value of our constitutional order. Our government promotes women's rights, and we actively fight all forms of discrimination. The number and activity of women in all spheres of social life must be equal to men especially in management positions and these are tasks that are ahead of all of us. That is what he said, and then he allowed himself to be denied first by this report, and then he himself drew up his lists for the last parliamentary elections. That's too bad. This report year is also characterised by the 28% increase in criminal acts of domestic violence, as well as the 30% increase in registered rapes. The data therefore clearly indicate that the Istanbul Convention does not apply fully even though it has been more than 2.5g since ratification. The Croatian government must not accept such rates of violence as normal. The systematic work on solving these problems has been lagging behind for years and this must change. One more thing in this report that I think is important to highlight are the data that speak of the sexual exploitation of women. So although the lawyer, no longer there, has been in favour of applying a Swedish model that...... decriminalises people who commit prostitution, and criminalises customers of these services such valid Croatian laws have not changed and, under the applicable Croatian laws, only those who sell prostitution but not those who buy these services continue to be punished. I sincerely hope that this meeting of the Croatian Parliament will bring about changes in the legislation that the Ombudsman proposes. And finally, I would like to point out that the Commission's Report on Gender Equality for 2019 represents an excellent overview of the situation in the area of gender equality, an excellent collection of clear recommendations to the competent ones, and I support it all the same. In addition, although it is not there, I hope that she will be given the commendation of the Ombudsman's response to inappropriate statements by public persons including the President of the Republic of Croatia, and I would like to compliment the Ombudsman on the dignified conduct and appropriate response to the disenfranchisement in the public space of the Ombudsman's institution. and her alone as women. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8556	You have, you stay, you have three replicas. Of which incestuous as I call them inside parties, although you never know within clubs whether they're incestual or not. He is the first of Mr. Hajdukovic, the first of Mr. Hajdukovic There, there's Hajdukovic, there you go. [[Is there a replica?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8557	Well, thank you, Mr. President, I won't comment on what you said. You mentioned the implementation of the Istanbul Convention, but I must draw attention to one more thing, and that is to say that the Life Partnership Act was passed by the same person 6 years ago, namely 15.7.2014. Not all regulations, all laws that should and which would ensure the effective implementation of this law are still amended. Six-year-old co-worker, six years old, so not yesterday that we brought. This Istanbul thing is just a couple of years, so understand that, just for a few years, it takes another decade to change all the regulations and laws so we can implement something that we've taken over by ratification.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8558	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8559	Well, thank you, colleague Hajdukovic. I don't know how I'd help you. I'm not in the position of a master to work on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8560	Thank you very much. Mrs. Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8561	You are not in the position of the official, but you are a representative of the party that was in the position of the official and from 2013 until 2018 she had a safe opportunity to initiate or adopt the Istanbul Convention, so we would now be with the measures perhaps a little further. As for the protection of the rights of all minority groups, you have nothing to boast about, and your president said that women are not capable of bearing the electoral lists or co-ordinators in the constituency units, as well as of dealing with some so-called. minority groups have shown themselves right in the Slavonia electoral unit now in these parliamentary elections. A little self - criticism wouldn't hurt you because you don't have any concepts of equality and implementation in practice and you don't boast of anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8562	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8563	Thank you, former Minister Murganic, you are capable of twisting facts, but I suppose that's how it is in your family.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8564	Mrs Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8565	Dear colleagues, Glamuzina, you mentioned a lack of respect for quotas when drawing up a list, and I think that is a big problem, but I am not surprised at that problem because some parties obviously do not have to work on women's equality in politics. What I am surprised at is the level of disrespect of the Ombudsman institution by the other institution, specifically the DORH which does not respond to the lawyer's questions, so here for 3 years, the Ombudsman has not received an answer to the question of criminal sanctions against candidates or candidates in local elections. How do you comment, is that the way it is in the family or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8566	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8567	Well, some financial ones can afford such mistakes, so they allow themselves, I don't know, and that's some kind of sign or indication of how willing they are to pay and show what it's really worth to disrespect the legal provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8568	Thank you very much. No more replicas Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Mrs. Danica Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8569	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed lawyers with associates, state secretary and other colleagues, here I am, gender equality certainly as a woman and as a politician for many years in the Split-Dalmatia County on my field, quite well and I have come to know this issue, and I have really read and read the report on the work of the lawyer for 2019. So the numbers, the statistics, the comparative displays, the analysis, are certainly an unforgivable part of each report and this report, and it is necessary, but the specificity of this report is that almost every number here actually has its name and last name and unfortunately represents persons who have been exposed to various forms of inequality, discrimination and violence. In addition to reporting on the Ombudsman, many recommendations are also being made in order to improve the judicial legislative framework against gender-based violence, especially against the femicides. For example, it points to the need to draw up a national strategy that would refer to the situation of women in rural areas, points out that life and motherhood and further major challenges of gender discrimination among women in the labour market, etc., but certainly recommendations and these analyses are welcome, but I lack more concrete and measures to address certain problems. For example, the Ombudsman herself warns in the report that there are still no new shelters for victims of domestic violence or an increase in funding for the infrastructure of the existing ones. From year to year, this is an indecisive problem, and I hope that in the next period this problem will not be spoken of in this same way. Here I will certainly highlight a positive example of my Split-Dalmatia County, which has just been rebalanced, with the recent budget rebalancing provided funds to edit extended space facilities for women's shelter for the safe house. We should also commend here many of the activities mentioned in this report from the implementation of European projects, the development of a media code of guides for professional and sensitised reports of violence against women and femicidals, the co-operation of inter-resor institutions to educational activities. Unfortunately, the black increase in domestic violence has increased this year. In part, it was caused by lockdown and during the pandemic of the coronary virus, and certainly many other statistics are negative. So all of us here have to ask ourselves through this debate about this report, is it done enough, is it possible to work even better and better? Here I particularly think about the area of education and prevention on all issues of gender equality, and certainly the commission and the office may need to communicate more and be on the ground in direct contact with the implementation of new educational thematic campaigns. It may also be necessary for the attorney general to be in a better and more effective position with the presidents of gender equality committees, but in every single one of our districts. Here is the report that cca 24% of the budget remains unused, so I am asked why it is so and whether it was possible for these funds to be spent in the implementation of educational campaigns per target group. Here is the fact that still cases of domestic violence, sexual harassment and threats are constantly on the rise I think we should work even more on their prevention and prevention, and that's the task of sure, we heard here today all of us. So, especially the Advocate General's Office for Gender Equality, its role with us needs to be even stronger, it needs to be even bigger, more visible and in public every day, and not when the black scenario happens. I wish her a lot of success in that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8570	Thank you very much. 7 replicas Our Rules of Procedure allows for a replica within clubs, so there are five within the club. [[Intruder Baričević: 7, good.]] Congratulations. First Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8571	Thank you very much. I'll take the first replica outside the club. So, colleague Baricevic, you were here talking about the attorney general's report, we need to know what the lawyer's report is and what the lawyer can do. Exactly what the report said, it looks at processes, talks about what changes are in relation to, so this is not the first report, which has been compared to last year, which is an improvement, which is a deterioration and makes recommendations. And the role of the ruling to read the recommendations, to implement these recommendations as in legislation, which in real life is what you can do. And it's going to be interesting to see, let's say, a report for 2020 when we have it, someone's going to discuss it with us or never know what can happen, and see what really happened. You belong to the ruling side, you really listened and did something.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8572	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8573	So certainly the Government of the Republic of Croatia leads a policy against domestic violence and violence against women who are unfortunately a serious problem in Croatian society, and it is important that we as a society to this phenomenon, how we will treat it. It certainly implements a zero tolerance rate on violence, and you saw that last year three legislative proposals have been stepped up that enables preventive action by effective punishment, stronger police, the judiciary the entire system of social care to curb violence, but here we are all here together to work even more intensively on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8574	Thank you, too. Mrs. Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8575	Thank you very much. Here's my dear colleague, I'm very pleased that you have pointed out the importance of going to the field and that I would say maybe direct contact he is important for prevention and important for education. I can absolutely agree with that, but further in education, I would like to stress the importance of the field tour as the basis for this prevention in rural areas, as the Ombudsman's report also pointed out that women in the rural area are at risk of multiple discrimination. That's what my colleague Petyr was talking about, so the education you were talking about should be in the field in rural areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8576	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8577	Thank you, colleague Blažević. Of course, the most important thing is this communication, the procedure also around this future strategy, which was also discussed by the Ombudsman, as well as by her colleague Petir on the question of women in rural areas. So, that communication is important through all sectors both in the county and local, or from the ruling offices, it is very important that this office makes this communication between sectors and that we deal with the problem more strongly in the field.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8578	Thank you. Mrs. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8579	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I will refer to that part of your exposure in which you spoke of a lack of shelter for women victims of violence. I will remind you that in Croatia, we currently have 19 such shelters, 17 of which are financed from the Ministry of Social Policy Affairs. But I will also say that in 6 Croatian counties we have temporary solutions to shelter women victims of violence, and in order to ensure lasting solutions in these 6 counties, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has provided 70 million kuna from the European Social Fund. It is about project financing of a limited call. So, 70 million, the public call is ongoing. It lasts until the new year, and by now two applications have been submitted by the two counties of Koprivnica-križevska and Virovitičko-podravska. It's a direct assignment. More applications expected for the remaining 4 counties Krapina-Zagorska, Lika-Senjska, Požega-Slavonska and Dubrovačko-Neretva [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] This year he's gonna... [[Intruder Radin: Answer.]] [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8580	Mrs. Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8581	Thank you, colleague Bedekovic. Certainly this is a report belonging to 2019 and certainly a lot of shifts have been made this year, so I have also pointed out a positive example and my county from which I come and should praise all of this. Of course, the government will complete the construction of the shelter and secure spatial capacity, expand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8582	Mrs. Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8583	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Baricevic, you mentioned your Split-Dalmatia County in your presentation. The report could read that just in 2019, the Committee for Gender Equality and yours and my Sibenik-Knin County began to work. It is further stated when it comes to the implementation of the Protocol on Family Violence as an example of the proper conduct of the Sibenik-Knin County County County County County county team during 2019. I've called in consulting supervisors four times. So here is that our public knows what and how much we are doing on this topic in Split-Dalmatia and Sibenik-Knin County.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8584	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8585	Thank you, colleague Branka. Yes, they have certainly formed and further strengthened these teams that prevent violence and help or we at the county level have excellent cooperation with these teams. So here I can point out exactly and an example now that during the lockdown there was more violence. We immediately intervened, secured additional phone lines to get in our county from 8 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. the victims could report for support to our county team. And it certainly needs to be commended by the government and the restoring ministries that have worked on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8586	Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8587	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You said that many problems were detected, but we also lack concrete solutions. I fully agree with you that there are really problems that call for an urgent answer, and I particularly think about the greater commitment to working areas when we talk about women, especially pregnant women and young mothers who face various kinds of discrimination in their workplace. Women who plan to have children are harder to hire. They have a problem with the use of sick leave for little kids. Unfortunately, some have to return from the maternity home to a less paid or responsible place. In this segment, I believe that you too notice that there should be stronger and more spotting activities in order to support this particular part of women who are truly neglected and who face real problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8588	Time, Mrs. Petyr. Mrs. Baricevic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8589	Thank you, colleague Petyr. I have certainly stated that it is necessary to be stronger and more intense in this and to protect the enjoyment of human dignity. So, endangering or disabling women's freedom to work and protecting their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8590	Mrs. Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8591	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, I think that you have hit this particular debate extremely well because you are truly the most difficult form of inequality and that is violence because the most difficult form of inequality is the result of the most difficult forms of violence you have guessed in the sense that you have drawn attention to the obligation to work in the local community in our environments and where violence is happening, and where it should be prevented and through the work of such bodies, the working body of the mayor, through shelters that are county obligations. But certainly the government needs to help finance and find space and find it, encourage but violence is not only happening in some environments. It does not choose where it will be found and in the fight against violence we should all participate through changes in regulations, but also through work on lower local environments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8592	Thank you very much. Mrs. Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8593	Thank you very much, Mrs. Murganic, and you, as Minister, have given your great pain in contributing to this. It is certainly necessary to intensify this action and to sensitize the public about the harmfulness and inacceptability of violence and to carry out an even stronger and media campaign and to continue to strengthen means and capacities, as we said earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8594	And finally Mrs. Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8595	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Baričević, you have also referred to the need for co-operation with the Committees on Gender Equality at County level, I, as the President of the Committee on Gender Equality of the City of Zagreb, have been able to commend the co-operation of the Ombudsman for gender equality with the City Committee on Gender Equality, has encouraged certain topics, particularly sexism in public space, birth budget, etc. How much do you think we should encourage the county to set up these working bodies to actually have a Committee on Gender Equality, which is active and which cooperates with the Committee on Gender Equality at the national level? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8596	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8597	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nadj, so certainly here is the Attorney General's Office for Gender Equality encourages the County Assembly to set up such committees. They are a very important factor if this one wants to do so in one way the advisory part of each county congregation. It is certainly up to the commission and all the members at the county level as much as they will encourage work, and here I said that perhaps since the report says that only the attorney general was in 9 counties, so I said that it would be good to encourage that communication to then start from the top down, if not those down to the top, means that the attorney's office, as much as it means, encourages some communication.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8598	Thank you very much. No more, no more replicas, no more replicas, you're free ma'am, you're free to go, Mrs. Baricevic you're free to go. What? Who? I skipped you, my fault, my fault, skipped over, you were even before, yes, well, here you go, is, is. Here you go. A microphone, a microphone. All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8599	Dear colleagues in your debate, you said how long you have been involved in politics, or how long you have been fighting violence against women, or gender equality, as well as all other social activities. In your debate, you still wondered if we could do more? Of course we can, all of us together here. We need to get out of this high house no matter which side of the assembly we came from on the right or left. When we put some topics that are common, as regards women, equality, especially health and reproduction of women on one level that is above politics, men are still doing better than we are, and I sincerely hope that all of us women will, by example, take one step forward and, of course, help our attorney, but of course also our colleagues who have problems with being unequal, or with an inequality in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8600	Thank you and forgive me one more time. Mrs. Baricevic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8601	Thank you beautiful fellow MP Maximchuk, it is necessary to continue to work of course that women and men have the same access in all spheres of public and private life, to have equal status, equal opportunities for achieving all rights and equal benefit from the results achieved. In this area, we must indeed give great, strong, strong work together with the Office of the Advocate General for Gender Equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8602	Thank you. You're really free now. Mrs. Ivana Posavec Krivec, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8603	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Advocate Ljubicic with his associates and associates, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, allow me to begin by welcoming all the activities that the Ombudsman for gender equality in the Republic of Croatia encourages and implements to protect one of the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, equality. Gender equality in all segments of the political, public, business and social sphere of life. Unfortunately, every year reading these reports, reports by all the lawyers, and especially by the lawyers for gender equality, we confirm the fact that we are still not a society of equality, that we are still a society of inequality. In this society inequality, women are less gender represented in all of the aforementioned spheres. I believe that we women who today are participating in the work of the Croatian Parliament have, for example, become involved in political action to change the consciousness of the entire society and try to lead to full equality between women and men in society. I therefore believe that it is our duty and obligation to speak out loud about the existence of stereotypes, the existence of patriarchal restrictions, sexual harassment, gender-related violence, but also a series of obstacles on which we must further prove ourselves and work to advance in our business environment. Although there are few colleagues here today in this assembly during the debate on this report, I believe that they will all speak loudly with us on these topics and that in this way we will strengthen women in Croatia to speak loudly about these topics so that every year there will be fewer and fewer cases about which we read so far. I repeat, for me this extraordinary and quality, comprehensive report on the work of the Ombudsman warns that women face a number of challenges in their actions, and what I will focus on is the fact that most complaints of citizens and citizens refer to discrimination in the field of labour protection. The esteemed attorney is visible that you point to the problem of the high presence of the so-called so-called attorney. premature, uncertain or insecure work which is largely manifested in the women's population. I fully agree with your recommendation that there is a need to stop the trend of employment at a certain time, which in some ways would limit overwork because it makes women on the labour market extremely insecure from the position of pay and the duration of the working day, the conditions of health on jobs based exclusively on a certain time. Furthermore, I also support your efforts, and I believe that it is also necessary to bring professional and family life into line, and therefore the distribution of child care obligations and older ones, as well as the household between partners. The issues of harmonising professional and family life are not a question of individual choices, lifestyle or skills of partners in juggling family work obligations. This is certainly a structural issue that requires Croatia to engage in policy making and law making women, and which, to the greatest extent today, bear the burden of unpaid household and nursing work, enable equality and the most important economic independence. And your report shows that regardless of the working status and level of education in women, the greatest burden of concern for family and household, distribution of jobs is extremely segregated and asymmetric. Women are more engaged in child care, older and household care. It is known that equality means equal pay for equal work, work equal value, that equality also reduces the need for gender pay gaps, and consequently pensions. Unfortunately, the fact is that women earn less than men, and for work equal values are less paid. As a result, data show that women's pensions were underpaid by 21.5% in the gender gap. The birth gap in pensions is the result of the gender inequality women face throughout the working life, so that they are 75 years old. twice as threatened by poverty as men. Women later enter the world of work, more often work in the preeminent forms of work for a certain time and so on. In conclusion, because time does not allow me, I support all efforts by the attorney general for the purpose of raising awareness and protecting equality between men and women in society, and your report [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] It has given a series of recommendations and I hope it will turn into legal solutions. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8604	You have 3 replicas, so you'll be able to do more This is what you think, Mr. Hrelja, is the first replica. [[Intruder: And thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8605	Dear colleagues, working for a certain time does not have to be an overwork, but the student work of young women is certainly too much work because they don’t get a year’s internship, so there’s no retirement time paid, so when they retire they’ll have 10, 15 or how many years less internships, it automatically means less pension. The preliminary work is also to work for a minimumer since the employer may be a pile of profits, and shows the payout of the minimum wage and eventually the end of the working life is safe to go to the lowest pension, so there is this protection, but it is definitely very, very low and depends on the years of the internship. Therefore, there are, of course, various forms of preeminent work among others is long-term student work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8606	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8607	I'd like to thank my colleague Hrelja. I agree fully with you, I think that here in HS it is necessary to talk as often as possible about the presence of preliminary work in Croatian society, especially meeting the announced and expected changes of the Labour Act because just when we gain security for our citizens in the workplace, in the field of work, we can expect that these people who are employed who can build their life will develop more healthy in this society. It will be those measures that will not force young people to leave Croatia but to stay here and actually invest here in the development of the economy. Only when we reach economic independence and security and economic development will we be able to say that we are a society of prosperity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8608	- Mrs. Crescent. - Boric, Mrs. President. - Boric, Mrs. President. It's a replica fight.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8609	Dear fellow Members, it is very important to speak precisely about preeminent work and agree that over-work is indeed and often work for a certain time, which means 3 months if we all know that almost 90 percent of newly concluded contracts is a certain time and it is a matter of that determination. What I'm curious about is, can you say, we've seen just these days that we're proposing an additional flexibility of work. How much of this flexibility will be at the expense of women, i.e. How much further will the pay gap increase?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8610	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8611	Thank you, fellow Boric. We are aware that women work most often in jobs that are lowest paid in the Republic of Croatia, that they often work precisely on those jobs that are under the smallest control and that they are most exposed to the greatest risks, so right now we can also look at the risks that women are exposed to during this year, for example from the pandemic of covids and of course that the flexibility in work will be the most affected by those who are the most exposed and those who are in some way the most sensitive. However, if certain protection mechanisms are achieved through the flexibility of work, then we can expect women to have their position. Unfortunately, at this point, I don't hope so, because no one has suggested such a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8612	And at the end of the day, Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8613	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleague Posavec Krivec, therefore you have also based your exposure on the fact or used the facts of the wage difference report for the same work between women and men. The same thing you said at one point, so here in the assembly there are more women than men. It's not that often, but as soon as there's a theme like this, then somehow women get a little more engaged. But women's rights are human rights and we'll get back to the subject of some kind of demographic revitalization sooner or later. Without all that she has said in her recommendations, and what she pointed to, there will be no demographic recovery of this country, so these recommendations should be read well and the recommendations are sort of homework and I would say about the ruling, domestic tasks for the prime minister and ministers what they should do, and in what direction they should go. legal frameworks to make us all better together. [[Intruder: Time, I'm sorry, time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8614	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8615	Dear colleagues, Mr. Taritash, I can fully agree with you. I am afraid that after the debate in the HS report that we are reading, which we are discussing and in which we most often empower the Ombudsman institutions, we are giving them support and we want them to continue with their quality work in the interests of Croatian citizens, to stay somewhere in the seal. These reports have passed to the government of the Republic of Croatia, but I'm afraid they're not coming back, that they're not going back to the resolution ministries, that they're not going back to the debate about what the recommendations are in those reports because these recommendations could actually be action plans. Action plans for a new legislation under which this society would indeed be better quality, under which this society would be more democratic and in which we would not have those situations where the largest party in the Republic of Croatia pays the fine because there are not enough women on the political lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8616	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8617	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here at the beginning of my debate I would once again like to commend the Attorney General's work on gender equality and also to say that I am firmly convinced that you have obtained a level of defence of human rights in this case of the specialised attorney's office should not only keep but continue to develop and therefore my full support. In my debate, I will concentrate on something that the speakers before me have generally not touched, which is the bonds and birth minorities and the implementation of some laws that unfortunately are not yet implemented as they should in reality, which is the Life Partnership Act of the same sex. All regulations and legal provisions are not yet in conformity with the law in order to carry out the law uninterruptedly. I will repeat, we adopted it on July 15, 2014, 6 years later we haven't changed all the necessary regulations, sublaws and somewhere legal. And what does it say about us as a state that tries to protect human rights, which gives rights to certain groups, and then is unable to implement them? Same thing with the Istanbul Convention, I'm afraid. The report also states that although the Action Plan for the implementation of the National Anti-discrimination Plan for the period 2017-2019 has been envisaged by the authorities responsible for their application and that the implementation of the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex has not been implemented. I always like to emphasize that education is the key, education is the one that breaks prejudice, education is the one that in some way prevents possible violence and faceless hatred. And one kuna invested in prevention is 4 or 5 kunas that we save in recovery and that's what we have to be very aware of if we only look at it through a financial aspect, not human and human rights. Also in the focus of the public last year was the Household Law, due to a media-exposed case of rejection of the requirements of life partners for approval for fostering and ignoring the decision of the Administrative Court in Zagreb by the Centre for Social Care Zagreb. It is inconceivable that one state institution ignores the court's decision, inconceivable. Fortunately, it is now corrected and I am sure that Ivo and Mladen will provide their protégés a loving home as any heterosexual couple would do. In 2019, police recorded 6 crimes, 4 of which were related to public promotion of violence and hatred, or the crime, so-called hate speech. I must draw attention here to the fact that almost 80% of the violence against gender and gender minorities is not reported. This is just the tip of the ice dream, if it's even the tip, this might be the snowflake on top of the ice dream. I'm afraid the real situation is very different, and this very nicely shows the case of two American soldiers who were attacked in a nightclub on our shores where the D.A.'s office has made a lot of efforts to show that it's a hate crime, not a felony, as the police have insisted. Was she protecting anyone? I really don't know that. What's good is 18. The procession of pride in Zagreb from June 2019 and Split came to Split without any incidents, it was so with this year's arrival and I am glad to see it becomes a festival of celebration of love, something that is positive and good, something that makes people go out to windows and wave at that procession, and not something that should be thrown at by stones because you come to visit colleagues and colleagues you won't hear anything bad there. EU discrimination studies in 2019 based on the perception of subjects or subjects suggest an increase in tolerance in Croatian society and greater social inclusion of gender and gender minorities on the labour market compared to the same study conducted 4 years and 2015. And I can personally say that things change in Croatian society, change for the better, that prejudice is less and that openness is more. I think that shows nicely the film "None of your business" about two brave women and their love story. And speaking of which, today is the International lesbian Day, so congratulations to all lesbians, especially to my friend Marina Orsak their day, and especially to Marina because she showed how human rights can be fought... /The speakers speak at the same time./... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8618	Time, thank you. Mrs. Voter, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8619	In your discussion, you mentioned the case of Šegota-Kožić in which two people of the Republic of Croatia were denied the right to provide social services to foster families only because of the fact that they are registered life partners, that no one should ask them about their sexual orientation or question them, just to assess whether they are adequate persons to provide this social service. However, you said, that you mentioned some other examples of not implementing the Life Partnership Act as well as the non-compliance of other acts and why I volunteered for replication, why the Constitutional Court decided here, this will require lower judicial levels, however, I expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to also comply with the Household Act and all other laws with the lex specialis which in this case is the Life Partnership Act, that we are no longer in these intended or random legal gaps that are then interpreted in different ways. discriminatory. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8620	Sorry, sorry, you're over. Here you go, Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8621	Thank you very much, colleague Glasovac, that by this verdict of the court, I expected that now all these sovereigns, conservatives, neo and I don't know what they call them to rush into our orphanages into homes for carefree children and that they will adopt all those children so that by chance the evil equal partners would not adopt them or adopt them and give them a loving family. Unfortunately, it hasn't happened, but it may say more about these others. And as for law enforcement as well as in many cases, if these rulings are unable to do so, we will offer them solutions only which would be good if and when we offer them to truly accept them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8622	Thank you very much. No more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mrs. Ljubica Maksimchuk's turn, where, here you are, here you are. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8623	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Advocates with Associates, State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues before us is a Report by the Advocates for Gender Equality for 2019, which contains all activities and projects in all areas related to the repression, discrimination and violation of the principle of gender equality. During 2019, as the Ombudsman said, there were more than 1,719 cases, the largest number relates to the area of social security, social care, pension and health insurance and the application of the Law on Gender Equality. What is specific to this report is the implementation of 2 very important European projects such as the Ombudsman and listed in her report. Overall, as in earlier years, as a gender class, the Ombudsman considered cases that were mostly related to women, i.e. 73.4%, complaints remain in the highest number of gender discrimination-based discrimination rates of 85.8%, then sexual orientation-based 6%, and other gender-equality laws established by between 1% and 3%. As every year, the Ombudsman acted on complaints and personal initiative at all levels of the state administration as well as on all units of local, regional or regional self-government. We can see from the report, and regarding family violence, women remain in the majority of the victims of domestic violence. When we talk about gender equality one of the areas most often mentioned is certainly work and pay. Achieving equality between women and men is one of the strategic goals of modern society. Also listed is the lower rate of employment for women compared to men, then lower average salary for women compared to men, and then, of course, lower pension. But what's certainly a big problem especially for young people is so-called. overwork or contract for a specified or short period of time. I'm sure the new draft labour law will take care of that. Again in this report, we see that the traditional professions that were still active in women’s or women’s professions 10 years ago remain current women’s or men’s professions, but what I continue to worry about in this area is that women cannot progress as well as their male colleagues. Of course, we always have a moment of motherhood when women at one point decide to put their career aside and deal with motherhood, and therefore this problem arises, which is what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is, of course, by amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2019, where a pension internship is added to a period of 6 months for each child born. I'm sure they'll feel a slight shift there. Of course, there's a lot more we can do to fix it ourselves. It's a synchronization of private and business life. We see that we are still at the beginning of the EU when it comes to fathers or fathers going on maternity leave or parental leave. Women are under-represented at all levels of political, political participation which my colleagues have said so far, I am sure that this figure will be improved, but there we must continue to encourage one another, or we must encourage women to go into politics. In particular, this applies to women who are in rural areas. The report also mentions women farmers and women with disabilities, so the women farmers always remain invisible to us in all our discussions, we must stress that women are compared, women farmers with their husbands, do extremely difficult physical work, they work in fields, they stick to households, among other things they are mothers. So, I believe that in some future, a little more attention will be paid to this particular category, and this Ombudsman points to the creation of a national strategy that would now refer to the position of women in rural areas. It says here that in the family agricultural holdings, actually, the owners of agricultural holdings are women only in 30.43% and as I see the time coming out, I commend all the efforts of the lawyer in the work to combat discrimination and the fight against violence against women, and it is up to us to continue, especially for those of us who do public work, especially policy to deal with equality...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8624	I'm sorry, we went over a little bit. Mrs. Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8625	Thank you very much. At the outset, you mentioned that the Attorney General is working on two European projects, so since we are currently under discussion, I believe most of the MPs, the MPs have received an e-mail “In the Name of the Family” which calls for the Ombudsman to have an insurance and budget worth 6.8 million kuna for 11 employees. I would point out once again, the lawyer and her office have had a budget of around 1.7 million kuna for years, other funds relating to grants for projects that have run for the EU. One is worth 427,000 euros, another 468,000 euros and concerns building effective protection of the system to combat violence against women and equal rights and equal wages and equal pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8626	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8627	Yes, my dear colleague, here I have failed to read that e-mail. I am sure that the Ombudsman, or 11 persons employed in the Office of Attorneys, have been subscribed in order to catch up at all, or to answer all these questions, complaints, and in my debate, I said that there were 1719 whom they were handling this year. Of course there's that part of the field, we certainly say, but how can 11 employees do the full ground or cover the entire Republic of Croatia? The D.A. also said that they don't even have their own district offices in the region, and we could read that the money was right from the project, which is what the attorney told us in her report, and all those who read it could see that most of that money was from European projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8628	Thank you. Mrs. Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8629	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, in your debate, you have looked back on the position of women in rural areas, and for today, I have taken the task of somehow trying to regain consciousness for all of us that this is a very important topic. We come from the same neighborhoods, so we know how difficult it is to live in rural areas, especially women, in relation to their position in the family, but also in the whole community. We could talk here about the employment of these women, the poor transport infrastructure, the lack of kindergarten, and yet, on the other hand, all these women care about households, children, older ones, are actively involved in agricultural affairs, and there has been little talk today. I am of the opinion that together we can all be much more supportive of involving women from rural areas in all areas of social but also political life.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8630	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8631	Thank you. Of course, fellow Members, it is up to us who are particularly involved in public affairs policy to continue to work on equality or legislation that would raise women's quality of life, especially I in your debate, but also a colleague of Petir rural areas and women in rural areas. I also said that here are the women 30.43% of the O.P.G.'s owners, and they are certainly placed in the one under the more represented or minority. And certainly we, by our actions and political lives, but here we all who are involved in this political activity and some social political events should be encouraged as much as possible to include these women or to help them, if they have decided to stay in their rural areas, have equal care and equal opportunities as any of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8632	Thank you. Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8633	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague Maximchuk. Today, there have been several speeches about how certain professions have been feminized, but just like the D.A. said when we look at the top places, then the situation is not exactly great. I come from the Vrapce Psychology Clinic, which takes 140 years for the head of this joint psychiatric institution in the Republic of Croatia to first come to the head of women. You also have a personal experience of how difficult it is to be a woman in politics and how much more effort needs to be made in a masculine society to express yourself. The lawyer, with her work, is constantly working on continued education and in vain legislative frameworks if we do not implement it in practice. That is why family empowerment and gender equality should also be worked on, and therefore it is important that the Ombudsman’s Institute for Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8634	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8635	Thank you very much. Yes, I agree with you. I welcome the fact that, right at the head of one of your clinics after 140 years, a woman arrived. I hope that as many women as possible will be seen in the management posts, or as many women as possible, in politics, is this still a place where many things are being made and where directions and our lives are being determined. Equally, it's not as simple as being a politician and a mother and also a woman, and dealing with equality and everything, but here's for sure we women can do it. But what's very important is what I said here today in the replica of one colleague, it's important to support all of us especially when it comes to some subject of women's equality, women's health, reproduction, and all that stuff then we need to rise above the party, and then we all help support ourselves together, is as I said men do it still better than we do, and I'm sure we'll change that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8636	Thank you, too. You don't have any more replicas. Mr. Damir Habian is on his way now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8637	Thank you very much, dear Vice-President, esteemed attorneys with associates, respected secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs. Indeed, a comprehensive report by the Ombudsman on gender equality on over 350 pages has already been made available before us. What I would like first of all to praise is the transparency and simplicity of the report, regardless of which, on this scale of the site, and in particular the part relating to specific items presented in particular areas of your jurisdiction, which, in my personal opinion, greatly facilitate access and judicial practice, both to interested individuals and lawyers representing persons seeking legal protection in the context of the fight against discrimination in the field of gender equality. Initially, I would also like to look back on part of your report that speaks of the existence of pay gaps and pensions between women and men. According to the State Statistics Service, we can see that men make about 8800 kuna on average, and women on 7700 kuna on average. Subject data indicate an average wage gap of 12.7%. The biggest pay gap... health care and welfare activities, financial activities and insurance activities, hence some 27 to 21%. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, if we look at the data for the EU then we see that women on average have 15.7% less salary than men, which is a greater average gap than in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, since it was said here on the left that this data was a defeat for our country, then the question arises: this percentage at EU level gave this defeat to the EU? Here is also the highlighted provision of art. 157. A Treaty on the Functioning of the EU that prescribes that each Member State ensures that the principle applies to equal salaries of men and women for equal work or work for equal value. Yesterday we had a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions to see the concrete application of that provision. 157. Indeed, the proposed law promotes this principle of equal salaries of workers and workers for equal work or work of equal value. It should also be noted that equality between women and men is one of the EU's common and fundamental principles. 8. Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. The principle has just been one of the cornerstones of the adoption of the European Parliament resolution of 30 January this year on the difference in salaries of women and men. That resolution is called on by the European Commission to present a new gender equality strategy, which should include, among other things, binding measures on the gender pay gap between women and men as clear objectives and follow-up procedures for the promotion of gender equality. What is particularly apostrophe in the resolution in question, and what is, among other things, going through this report of yours, is the fact that the gender-conditional pay gap and its causes have exponentially harmful consequences for women throughout their lives who ultimately culminated in the difference in pensions that is almost twice as much as the pay gaps. It should also be noted that the pay gap between women and men can also make domestically conditional violence and harassment worse because victims are often forced to work in less paid jobs due to hostile environments. On page 2. 59 to 60 of your report you have listed 10 recommendations which, in your opinion, should affect the achievement of the principle of gender equality in the field of labour and employment, and I hope that, when considering and adopting certain legal proposals in this House, we will really consider the same. I would also like to take a brief look at the part of your report, which lists trends in media content with special reference to women reporting in politics, but also, for example, sexism in public statements. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that examples of sexism are not a relic of the past but a trend that is still present in both the media and public figures. And in recent days, unfortunately, we have examples of inappropriate sexist statements by certain public figures, and here I primarily think of politicians. It is the impression that such statements give you safe media space and the spotlight attention, but I believe that those statements are certainly not acceptable in the 21st century but deserve public condemnation and criticism. Instead of a reasoned explanation of your own views in the public space, it is present that other persons who are certainly not acceptable to communicate are belittled. It is up to all of us here to at least try to be an example of acceptable communication and condemn lately the frequent demeaning, insulting and sexist statements of certain public figures, and to be an example of healthy and constructive communication. Finally, by looking at the assembly this way, it would be concluded by the representatives present that men are actually sub-represented in Croatian politics and parliament, not women. Thanks, that's not it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8638	Thank you very much. For only for pedagogical reasons to say so and there are 21 MPs here, of which 18 MPs and 3 MPs, so let it remain recorded in the stenogram. Here you go, Mrs. President. Boric. Yeah, and four men, I forgot about myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8639	And colleagues. Well, we said we wouldn't, so the family is one fluid category, so no one should be angry. I am here no colleague of Hasanbegovic was called in the assembly anyway, so I was not angry. I'd like to thank my colleagues. What I failed to do when I spoke on behalf of the club, just point out that this is an extremely transparent report and who wants to learn how to solve cases at all and, of course, what can be seen in the framework of the attorney's authority, what can be done after the complaint when the recommendation comes and what recommendations look like and how they are extremely positive in terms of improving the state of discrimination. I wanted to ask you, and unfortunately I was only an hour away, you were talking about the pay gap, what do you think about whether it's time and that Croatia introduces 40% quota for women to participate in corporate administrations Of a kind used in the [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] listed on lists as yet [[Intruder: Thank you]] '12th proposed [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] proposed? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8640	It's very interesting, but we're limited in time, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8641	Thank you very much. Here's to this part first as far as my last part is concerned, I couldn't agree more. So, I deliberately didn't point out in the report are listed individual cases, individual political parties, I don't think it matters at all, therefore the conviction is actually supposed to come from all sides. As far as this issue of yours is concerned about me and about this percentage, I will, in principle, say on my own personal name, so if you're talking about the percentage that the law requires for women's representation, the question of another principle is, and that is the possibility that at all, some political option will try to be and participate in the elections. You've got smaller places where you simply don't have so many women that you could even go out with a list of threats to get the defendant's proposal, and you're trespassing, so you have this conflict of two principles. And the question is whether there is a need for us to impose by law a certain percentage of women who should be in administrative bodies or in politics. ... You have the right to disagree, of course. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8642	Thank you very much. You have no other replicas. Let's move on, Mr. Erik Fabianic. Excuse me, Mrs. Vesna Nadj. Please, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8643	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the esteemed lawyers for gender equality with co-workers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is a comprehensive and transparent report by the Advocate General for Gender Equality for 2019 which I also commend on this occasion. In its recommendations, the Ombudsman stated that the planning of the birth budget in the fields of work and employment is also proposed. So, where's the problem? Women have completely bridged the educational gap compared to men and represent working human potential, but their labour market status does not fully reflect educational achievements. There is still a gender inequality in the labour market that is reflected in the lower activity of female labour, lower employment rates and lower women's incomes compared to men's incomes. The reason for the unfair participation of men and women in the labour market can also be linked to the gender roles that society attaches to men and women, in other words, society expects men to participate actively in the labour market while women are expected to take over a large part of the unpaid work that often makes active participation in the labour market impossible or puts them in an unfavourable position. Not involving women in the labour market is financially dependent on a man who restricts her control of her own life and creates a hierarchical relationship of subordination between equally valuable social groups. What exactly is unpaid work? Unpaid work involves all production activities that take place outside the labour market, which are carried out as part of the care for its household, as example of household work, child care, older, powerless, volunteer work, transport services, larger minor repairs, family work, etc. These activities are considered to be productive activities because limited resources are trying to meet human needs, and they fall into unpaid work because they are performed on their own despite the fact that they can be carried out in theory by buying product services on the market. What exactly is the birth sensitive budget? The gender-sensitive budget or birth budget, respecting the various socially shaped roles and needs of men and women, implies a continuous analysis of expenditure and income and how to collect income from the perspective of gender equality at all levels of the budgetary process and modifying them in order to achieve greater gender equality in society. In this respect, respecting the different gender roles and the need of men and women's part of the population means that a gender-sensitive budget, unlike the usual budget, is worth and takes into account both the unpaid work and the disproportionate distribution of the same between men and women. How did it all start? The first initiatives of the gender-sensitive budget consider it a basic instrument for achieving equality between men and women already appeared in 1984 in Australia. The process of a gender-sensitive budget in Australia was initiated by an analysis of how certain parts of the existing state budget affect men, and how women and whether they meet the budget to the same extent their needs. Analysis, respect and evaluation of unpaid work and various social and biological roles, the need and preferences of male and female populations can take into account additional criteria for the allocation and distribution of budgetary revenues, or for directing and determining public expenditure, in a way that will contribute, in addition to the stabilisation objectives, to a better redistribution of income and to the equal fulfilment of the public needs of all citizens. The purpose of the home budget exceeds the establishment of gender equality as a fundamental objective and becomes a driver for the modernisation of the public sector, increases employment, productivity and growth of the overall economy, intensifys the involvement of women in the labour market, thus directly contributing to the economic efficiency of the public sector. Examples of good practice, we also have examples of good practice in Zagreb because we have launched a birth budget through the Committee on Gender Equality of the City of Zagreb, but the birth budget has long had the city of Vienna, Stockholm and other European cities and the results are very good. I therefore propose to the Ministry of Finance to approach the draft budget in order to achieve these objectives as well as at the level of the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8644	...because Mrs. Boric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8645	Thank you, Mrs. Nadj, and I hope that here as we are in the City Assembly, we will fight to at least start doing our own budget. And I suggest the Ministry of Social Affairs here we talked about violence against women, if anyone thinks it's legitimate to abuse women then let the reputation of Finland have done something called "The Price of Violence" (price of Violence) and has made a good manual and shown how much violence costs. Since we live in a world where we live, then we should see what it means to abuse women and how much it costs to the community and figures are terrifying. So I suggest we maybe do that kind of experiment, maybe someone will understand that way, not the way we talked about it. One of the EU's values is that there is no democracy without women, and as we see the situation with women, then we do not live Nor in democratic Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8646	Mrs. Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8647	Thank you very much. My colleague Boris, therefore prevention, education in the fight against violence against women, domestic violence is very important, and this is where the lawyer for gender equality showed us how this works.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8648	Thank you very much. No more replicas, thank you. Let's move on and now it's really Mr. Eric Fabianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8649	Dear Chairman, let me supplement the number of men and women in the O.R. in a way that I will give you another statistic, namely, which is a matter of very order but also a total number of colleagues and colleagues who have come forward to discuss this issue and here we are male colleagues, I think we can count ourselves on the fingers of one hand compared to over 26 speakers. It's also one message from this assembly to this subject, and unfortunately it's what it is. I really thank all of my same-sex colleagues for taking part in this, for participating in this debate. I come from a region that established a committee for gender equality I mean first in Croatia before it was laid down by law. I come from one area where a uterine cancer prevention program was applied before it was a national programme. I come from one area where the same prevention of breast cancer was also a public programme, a county programme before it became a national programme. For many of the things mentioned here in the report we have considered specifically in the Primorje-Gorski County, our Committee on Gender Equality is for the first six months of this year and we have noticed one thing about domestic violence that it is growing. Now every number can be interpreted differently, whether it's a pandemic issue, possible, because people are more at home, but maybe it pours hope one thing, and that's that people started believing in the system, and that basically violence was maybe always in the same amount, but now more is being reported. If more is reported now that means that we have one shift to better no matter how many of those numbers are due to the increase they look ugly. Of course, I, who am here in political function, cannot discuss it, nor am I meteratorious, but this should be left to the profession and to those organisations that are connected to the Committee on Gender Equality, starting with NGOs and other volunteers who are, who are working with them to get to the right truth because in the end and what we see and what we are reporting is basically who eisberg only sees the top that is above, which is above the sea. When we talk about gender equality, it is very much about not only norms, legal norms, but also political and political will. So I'm going to say that from the county where I come from, we've got more headmasters than we have headmasters, but that's also so that, therefore, that political will must be firm. So these recommendations of this report, which is certainly to be accepted on the basis of the suggestions and observations and recommendations made by this report, must have the political will to, which will de facto implement them. Therefore, the political will is based on the applicable rules to be implemented in any case. There's another thing, there's another thing we haven't gotten away from for over half a century, and that's the right to abortion. It's the right to abortion, I'm going to comment on it in one perhaps a joke, but it's not a funny way, because often 30 years ago, the same thing was said about a ban on abortion. Nothing has changed in the last three decades, and today it is said, as it has been debated whether the biological father has the right to co-determination of pregnancy and I have received a very significant answer from women. And that answer was that, as a rule, at that point, a man had already escaped. So the question of whether an abortion, under what conditions do I feel that we men really don't have the right to vote? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8650	Yes, Mrs. Jelkovac has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8651	Thank you very much. In your debate, you mention the violence that is still ever present in our society, and indeed when we open our posts daily on portals, we face violence from violence committed against minors to violence against women and our older citizens. I think that we, both as a legislative body and in the past term, have intervened in the Penal Code, strengthened sanctions, of course, that there is a lot of work to be done on prevention, but it seems to me that prevention of such a amount of violence will not be enough and that we will have to begin to really impose more severe sanctions on the violence committed in order for it to be truly evenly punished in relation to the damages that we have from violence, because without it we are obviously not going to achieve a reduction in the percentage of violence in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8652	Fabian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8653	I'll agree with you. Namely, by speaking to the competent officials of the Primorje-Gorski Police Administration, perhaps that fact, therefore more faith in the institutions thanks to this change, and the changes to the legislation that took place in the previous term, which is related to, hence, erasing certain infringement provisions that have become criminal provisions. I'm not, I'm not a lawyer, so I can't say myself professionally, but the fact is, it's, uh, it's improved the situation. Is that enough about that we will most likely during this term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8654	Thank you, too. No more replicas, you're free Mr. Fabianic, you're free to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8655	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8656	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8657	And to commend Klaric for sitting here if you please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8658	- Mrs. Crescent. Martina Vlasic Iljkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8659	The Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable Advocates, representatives of the government, respected MPs and MPs. She would like to commend the prosecutor's report on gender equality, especially in the part of the presentation of the citizens' address cases, which complement the numbering indicators, and you can clearly get insight into the problem you are dealing with. I am also pleased that in your work you have recognised the principle of good practice in the work of the social care centre, especially in the consistent application of the protocol on the conduct in the case of domestic violence. In particular, it would refer to the area of demographic policy and activity. It is indisputable that Croatia has been in a demographic crisis for many years. The report states that, according to a call for the application of projects that contribute to improving material conditions in kindergartens during 2018 and 2019. 250 Agreements on the co-financing of projects aimed at improving material conditions in 311 children's kindergartens in 103 cities, 147 municipalities, and 117 million kuna were provided for. Indeed, we are constantly witnessing the opening of new kindergartens through project funds, while for example the city of Požega had no such luck or wisdom in governance, so during 2015. The mayor then raised a 35 million kuna loan for the construction of the square and the construction of a new kindergarten. Of course, we are happy to have a kindergarten and not by raising loans but by means of grants, as other cities and municipalities did. For the absurd to be a higher capacity city kindergarten is not enough and 100 children are not admitted to the city kindergarten annually because there is not enough room or all the conditions of the competition are not met. The current mayor of the town of Požega and parliamentary representative Darko Puljasic, who was the mayor of Požega at the time of the loan. he sends open letters to the public asking for the patience of his parents because he intends to expand the assembly kindergarten. At the same time, they find funds, for example, for the purchase of real estate from Požega-Slavon County, since it is a property of particular cultural importance and it is probably very important that the town of Požega becomes the owner of the property. In doing so, citizens and parents are sentenced to wait until more needs are resolved as the mayor and City Council of the city of Požega sees. Years pass, children grow up without attending kindergartens. Here in the assembly, we have heard several times from MPs and MPs that restoring markets, social homes, does not give extra value, employment or development of the environment, and right now it is in the government's focus of work. According to UNICEF 2018 data 62% of children aged 3 to 6. goes to kindergarten or 1/3 children do not go to kindergarten. One of the disadvantages of all competitions towards kindergartens is that the advantage of having children in kindergartens is those whose parents are both employed. The report recognises the importance of the availability of kindergartens because it ensures the possibility of a woman to work, stop young people from leaving the Republic of Croatia and improve the demographic image. The development of family services in the community is necessary because it contributes to equal employment opportunities for women and men. A woman is often not in a position or active in seeking employment because she has no one to look after her children. Studies have shown that higher child involvement in kindergartens affects better development of children, better health, less potential behavioral problems and better results in later education. Women are also often fosterers of care for older household members, and should be strengthened outside the institutional service to support women. Unfortunately, further development outside of institutional services to help families, victims of domestic violence, is not a priority of funding that we see on local examples when something else is always more important.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8660	Thank you very much. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, - Mrs. Crescent. Never the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8661	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs, I am glad that you also touched on the subject of child discrimination when enroling in kindergarten and in a family where only one parent is employed. I agree with you that we are obliged to enable each child to grow safely and happily, and that we are obliged to enable each child to be given equal opportunities for growth and development, development, regardless of whether it is urban or rural environments, in less developed or more developed areas of Croatia and regardless of the economic opportunity or difficulties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8662	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8663	You got it. That's right. Every child's right is available to kindergartens because of all positive influences on the development of the child. And the right of every woman is also available for employment in relation to a man, which should be the priority of every local community.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8664	- Mrs. Crescent. Bliss.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8665	Thank you very much. I have to admit, I've already thought about raising a breach of the Rules of Procedure or a replica, I've decided on a replica. At some point I can partly agree with some of your parts, but at some point you went to the city of Požeg, I'm no one's lawyer. However, you can know that kindergartens that are being built, from the same county, are being built from rural development measures, namely 7.4. That's a big difference, you and Požega, you know how many towns Požega have, how many numbers of inhabitants, and that's why I think it's not correct since Požega can't even register and apply to rural development measures, so talk about its environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8666	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8667	Thank you. It's important that every child really gets the right enrolment in kindergarten. Unfortunately for the mayor's decisions then in 2015, and for all the more so as it was in 2015 and which were then open, I am not going into that part, but I am entering into the fact that the funds could have been found in a smarter way than the withdrawal of the loan. If it has already decided to raise loans then all children and all parents are expected to have the right to enroll in kindergarten. Unfortunately, every year 100 children, but really 3 years in a row, it's one of the few situations in Slavonia in general, I don't know if there's any other city in which such a situation is, is left without the meaning of kindergarten every year either because it means that there's not enough room or The conditions of the competition are not met, and as far as the employment of both parents is concerned. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8668	Mrs. Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8669	Thank you very much, colleague Vlasic, and I would like to give the same replica on the same subject. In fact, you called the city of Požeg because it did not run for European funds but took out a loan and, unfortunately, the city of Vodice had to do the same because it has over 5,000 inhabitants and it is not possible to run for European funds but rather to raise the loan. Your Požega could now quickly find more than 26,000 inhabitants so she couldn't run to that extent. Otherwise, the Government of the Republic of Croatia helped build over 500 kindergartens, which was restored, two-way work was introduced in 96 and 836 educators were extended from European funds, which says enough how much the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done for preschool education.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8670	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8671	Thank you, but I agree, and if this was not possible to build a new kindergarten during 2015, it was not possible to claim it from this place now, but again I do not think that it is an answer to the question that we have been telling the mayor on the city council every year for 3 years, how does he intend to solve the problem of 100 parents and their children to have the right to enroll a child in kindergarten. Years pass, so the children grow up to preschool eventually and enter the school system without the right to have a bit of meaning preschool system. It's cardinal and it's really harmful for parents, for children, for our future.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8672	Mrs. Bedekovic at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8673	Thank you very much. I will also refer to the part of your presentation in which you spoke about the importance of kindergarten and I am actually glad that you recognized that the Croatian Government is doing a good job and that is one good news. I will repeat and remind myself in this past term the Croatian Government has built over 500 kindergartens in all parts of Croatia, in which 96 introduced extended stay, employed through projects of additional employees and professional associates, breeders, technical staff and plus national resources, so from the state budget co-financed the work of kindergartens in 72 municipalities of category 1 to 4 levels of development with 500 kuna per child. That's information for you, and I'm glad you admit that a good job has been done.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8674	Thank you, Mrs. Bedekovic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8675	So is the town of Požega, of course, co-financed kindergartens in, finance the accommodation of children in private kindergartens it is indisputable and so is it in all local communities, but I want to point out that it really doesn't solve the problem, I said here and in my presentation that a number of cities and municipalities are now opening up spinning through European funds, and it's not at all controversial, and that's great, here we are all happy with it, but it doesn't really solve the problem because we're the only city in Slavonia as far as I've been investigating property, whose founder of the town of Požega is that we have the meaning of this year 60-tero children who have not been enrolled in a kindergarten because there was no place and yet because they haven't met all the conditions of the competition, these are the discriminatory conditions that, which I mentioned about the employment of both parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8676	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. Now it's Mrs Vesna Vuciilovic's turn, there's no losing her right. Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8677	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed attorneys with their associates, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, above all, I have the need to express to the Advocate General the satisfaction of this kind of report, which, as I said in my first reply to you in your opening presentation, provides a lot of data, but not only a number of statistical indicators but also their quality interpretation with this emphasis, training of causative links and, of course, appropriate conclusions. So here I will personally support your report and also wish to highlight your professionalism and professional attitude towards your duty and precisely such a professional approach has resulted in a team that the Croatian Government has entrusted you with your second, second term. I will refer to how much time I will be allowed in two segments of your Report, the first part related to media reporting and the adoption, the very impact on the adoption of the Media Code, which was presented to me on 8 March last year, which is, I am, I am, of course, influenced by the way we report on domestic violence and victims of gender-related violence and certainly also on femicidality, and I believe that it has had an impact on the way the media is reporting and certainly the fall of sensationalism, because we all know that media are actually the main actors of forming society perception, and then the formation of society's relationship with the problem of violence, and I really want to believe that this trend is going to fall sensational reporting in the media, and I hope that in the following report, therefore, will go to the same time. The second part I want to talk about is that part of the report on gender-related violence and domestic violence. I would like to reiterate and point out, as you have pointed out in your report, that, with regard to improving protection against domestic violence and domestic violence, significant steps have been made, above all in the area of improving criminal law, we all know that during 2019 the Penal Code, the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence has been amended. Similarly, some sublegal acts have been adopted, for example, the Protocol on Family Violence. However, what is important to emphasise is this trend of reducing the number of offenders reported in the area of criminal justice and, on the other hand, the increase in criminal justice cases. It certainly encourages this at first sight taking into account the fact that violence precisely thanks to changes in legal legislation is increasingly being treated as a criminal offence, but on the other hand it should certainly be taken into account that the Constitution of family abusers is in a large number of cases, I would say, almost exclusively fined or suspended after which they are released again. And in the long run, it can actually lead to victims being deterred from reporting so long as the situation doesn't escalate, and the consequences don't become tragic, and that actually increases the trend of brutalization of violence. And of course, in addition to the legislation, we need to take into account, first of all, the essence, which is preventive action and therefore, certainly put emphasis, as you pointed out in your report, on developing a system of prevention and control of violence through, above all, early preventive and professional psychotherapy work with families in high conflict situations and before escalating violence. Certainly put emphasis on the social integration of the perpetrators of domestic violence through a long-term psychosocial treatment and, of course, what is extremely important, comprehensive education about gender-based violence and certainly non-violent methods of conflict resolution at all levels and certainly from the earliest age to actually build a culture of non-violence because, I will reiterate and stress that when violence occurs, the first reaction is instinctive, and that's an apprehension, and on the other hand we have responsibility as a way of life So responsibility for yourself and others as a process [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8678	You don't have a replica. You don't have a replica. - Mrs. Crescent. Sabina the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8679	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed assistant attorneys. I've already covered a good part of your report in the club's presentation, so I'd like to hold off in an individual debate, or I'd be back, but I'd still be a little longer on this chapter 9 which refers to reproductive health. What I want to point out is that we are countless times here and here in the assembly, but also outside of it heard that one of the burning problems in the Republic of Croatia is actually a depopulation, i.e. a reduction in the population. In the previous term, one of the backbones of its programme had exactly a population and I think that, if we are going to talk about this strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, then it is important that we look specifically at women's reproductive health in this report. Why? Why is it very often other than safe jobs, stable and permanent receptions, healthy family, social environment, working environment, one of the elements that affects a woman's decision whether to give birth or not, very often have experience in the delivery she already had and here in your report we can actually see some interesting data. It is important that what happened in HS, where it was actually shown how much the power of the parliamentary representative could be when counterpart Ninčević-Lesandric, in late 2018, shared with the entire Croatian public a traumatic part of her personal experience, triggered an avalanche reaction and pointed to a huge problem in the Republic of Croatia, which is complaints, a number of complaints from women on health services in maternity homes. And thank her for that. This shows that being a parliamentary representative can still trigger a certain avalanche. This problem was dealt with later, the UN also dealt with, we also encouraged the Council of Europe to take certain steps, we received in some way a pack and from the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, the UN General Assembly published a report on mistreatment and violence against women in providing health services in the area of reproductive health. The author of the Report is Dubravka Šimonović, a special UN rapporteur for violence against women, and the report lists a series of recommendations useful for improving health care for women in the area of reproductive health. Among other things, it advocates, quotes from your Report, providing the necessary powers and resources to national human rights institutions, including the attorney's office, to conduct supervision of public and private health institutions with the aim of ensuring respect for the patient's autonomy and privacy. Why am I bringing this up? With all due respect to other institutions in the Republic of Croatia, I think you should, that we should go on this trail and recommend, that you also be given a certain authority to oversee public and private health institutions because from this report, some of them on very serious requests are defended by full ignoring, as if nothing had happened. Why am I saying this? What's going on at Varazdin General Hospital? What's the problem? Let's do it in a row. I'm not gonna read everything, I'm just gonna point out some. In this regard, the Ombudsman acted on the complaint of the birth of a failure to act as a medical staff during her birth at the General Hospital of Varazdin 2018, at the same time pointing to the same problem when she first gave birth in 2014 at the same general hospital. The conclusion, although, so the Croatian Medical Chamber concluded that there were no professional failures during the delivery and medical care of the patient from 2018, and although the Ombudsman recommended that there be also an examination of the doubts about birth defects in the prosecutor's 2014 case, this was not done. In the second case, the Ombudsman handled complaints of rude treatment and the violent treatment of doctors towards births and their escort at the General Hospital of Varazdin reported by the media, however, the General Hospital of Varazdin requested the delivery of the evidence and the review of the relevant documentation, even after the haste, did not receive a response from the hospital, the procedure is ongoing. We're talking about 2019, too, and in the third case, the D.A. was acting on complaints about restrictions at the General Hospital of Varazdin on the selection of birth care escorts, etc., etc. D.A., you can do the final menu for me. Address to say [[Intruder: Timed out...]] What's going on at Varazdin General Hospital [[Intruder:...despite the quick reading.]] on the protection of reproductive agents [[Intruder: Time's up.]] Women's rights or violations [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The same and not answering even the questions. [[Thank you, ma'am. Voter.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8680	Thank you very much. And no, come back, you've got one replica from mrs. It's a pulac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8681	Here, fellow Members, when you mentioned reproductive rights, I wanted to point out another problem, which is that every year we have, if you remember those prayers in front of hospitals, which in some ways limit women's rights, or the right of anyone to have access to institutions in a peaceful way, I say that it is even contrary to Article. 11. The law on public gatherings that stipulates that neither peaceful gathering nor public protests are allowed near hospitals. We have also been and referred suggestions to several cities where such things are organised that in their decisions on communal order exactly say that it is 150 m from the hospital can therefore not organise such things, of course, we have encountered positive answers, but therefore it is a kind of pressure on people who want to therefore and access hospitals. And have one sure [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Safe way... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8682	Answer, ma'am. A voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8683	It's absolutely what needs to be put to the end. So we can't deny public gatherings to citizens in public places, but we know what can't be done in the courtyards of hospitals, and there all the heads of health institutions must be aware, aware of the actual responsibilities they carry. Can this country do anything more than that, I'm not sure. If the local administration and self-government units can do it, they probably can. The question is to what extent and how ready they are to do it. However, now, ma'am. Puljak, since you've already imposed this question, well, there's this aggressive campaign, on one side of a huge pressure on women, you remember, we've been looking for the establishment of an investigative committee in the Parliament that would determine the existence of fake clinics called abortion clinics that actually deceive women with false information, deal with parenting and respond to abortions. It didn't respond to that. [[Intruder: Time.]] And we haven't been able to, uh, make it happen. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8684	Time. We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8685	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, an officer has been injured. 238. The Rules of Procedure of HS, as well as their colleague, Glasovac and counterpart Puljak spoke of something that is not at all the subject of this report and in one false way characterised a peaceful initiative for 40 days for life and showed it in a light that absolutely does not correspond to the truth. So I'd like to ask you to keep an eye on the facts here. on any civil initiative [[/Intruder: Time. Time.]] That they may be true. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8686	Ma'am. Petyr. Look, in Art. In 238, it's not about whether someone told the truth or not. This falls within the realm of philosophy. If we were to deal now with assessing other people's truths, in fact, here, we wouldn't have a Parliament but we would actually have a congregation of injuries to the Rules of Procedure. But I'm going to have to give you a warning, if you deny what I'm saying because that's not there, I know that article by heart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8687	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have clearly called for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. 238, and she said that her colleagues weren't talking about the subject of the debate. [[Intruder: A off topic.]] So that's what it says in the first paragraph. A representative shall not be allowed to hold a hearing...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8688	Well, then, I apologize. I apologize to you, but it was still a replica. It was a replica after all, I say. [[/Intruder: What? I didn't understand.]] Let's move on, well, you said what you thought, let's move on, well, you said what you thought and go on, but I was wrong. I heard 238. okay. [[Intruder: It wasn't a replica...]] Look what time it is, Mrs. Voter, here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8689	16.56 and I say that, under Article 256, I actually have to stand in my defense, I have kept a precise report where, among other things, in this particular part of reproductive health report is spoken of among other things and about these prayer actions. I've given my judgment on it, I'm entitled to it here, but it's not true that I haven't talked about the subject of the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8690	Yes, but here we have, but here we have, yeah, yeah, okay, we're moving on, we're moving on, but there's one problem that you picked up after Mrs. Puljak, not after Mrs. Vosovac. Well, she didn't answer after you. Who were you referring to? To whom did you refer to the violation of Mrs. Puljak's Rules of Procedure or Mrs. Vosovac?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8691	The breach of the Rules of Procedure concerned both the vice-president's statements, both of which were held by colleagues Puljak and his colleagues, Glasovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8692	Both of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8693	Yeah... [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8694	If it's on both, then I'm retreating. Let's move on, it's still this one, it's not, it's not for breaking the Rules of Procedure, but well, everyone's said their opinions. And finally Mr. Ivan Celic as well as the last individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8695	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Advocates with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues in this high house, we are obliged to protect the civil liberties of every person from choice and in accordance with our own conscience. A lot of times it's not easy to be a lawyer, so even in the past few days, the D.A. had to listen to verbal vulgar escapades at their expense. I think that particularly politicians should be held accountable for the public space, and despite the democratic society that has been here for 30 years in the Republic of Croatia, the Ombudsman is nevertheless an indicator that professional access is being valued and that regardless of which political option exists in the Republic of Croatia if a person is doing quality work, it can continue to do his job. It's not always simple, but here are the bright examples. I will focus on the problem of violence against women and domestic violence since I come from the Vrapce Psychology Clinic where there is a reference centre for forensic psychiatry where a protective measure of mandatory psychosocial treatment is carried out for perpetrators of violence that have a positive psychiatric history. There, in some ways, this can be extended to a protective measure of mandatory psychiatric treatment. We talked about laws today, these four laws, so the Law on Protection against Family Violence, Criminal Law, Criminal Law and Family Law, sort of have analogies with the area I deal with, so the area of addiction and all of these examples that I mention in this brief presentation can be withdrawn parallels. So, in vain, we change the legislative framework if we do not have a continuous education of those who apply these laws and regulations. So if you have a conviction for 3 kilos of heroin a year in prison plus a year in a condition, then what kind of message do you send to those who are dealing drugs? Also, if you have under 10% of the total number of all perpetrators of violence unconditional prison sentences, then why the ratification of conventions, why the improvement of the law, so the lack of education of police officers, judges, the state's attorneys is something that we face in the area of violence issues both in the family and in the family, we need to make additional efforts to educate these people, and then also work on professional and preventive work, empower the centres for social care, we expect again the isolation of family laws, because on the one hand we need to promote gender equality, but on the other hand we need to strengthen the family as a fundamental core of each society so that violence is less present with us. And yet, as in medicine, we do a lot of things in quality, a lot of things, we spend a lot of money on diagnostics on effective treatment, and early interventions, prevention, and there is a lot of work to be done, both here and here. So, there is a very effective model of prevention and prevention of gender-based violence and violence in the family that would definitely reduce the number, colleague Bedekovic, as former minister, mentioned that the number of violence, the number of domestic violence, since it has gone from a criminal to a criminal sphere, the number of crimes, the number of crimes, the number of crimes, it is simply there when you add up again are the same numbers, but let's say in the end one example of the conduct of police officers towards domestic violence, according to violence against women, in the City of Zagreb, where we can freely say that zero tolerance has one county bordering the City of Zagreb, I will not call it where it is already relatively relative. So, no matter how small the Republic of Croatia is, we have differences and we need to educate, educate, To educate. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8696	Thank you. Thank you very much. You have four replicas. The first replica of Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8697	Thank you. I just wanted to use the replica as a fact to say that here's the topic at one point I went to count how many women there were in the assembly. I wanted first of all to be congratulated because you are one of the few men, here I think they are now in the assembly of parliamentary deputies it seems to me 6, 7 at one point were 22 and 4 men, as much as there is gender equality in Croatia and women in politics and pay gaps, pensions of everything we have heard today. Well, I'm just using the opportunity here, and I congratulate you for participating in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8698	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8699	Dear colleague Puljak, thank you. I agree with you that the subject of Ustasha and Partisan would be 90% of men, women to count, but this is not just a matter of report. Tomorrow there will be a prosecutor's report for disabled people, and there will be a similar situation again. When the topics that come from the social sphere come from social policy portfolios are again a similar situation with regard to the ratio of men and women, but here are some bright examples, so I'm glad I'm in that group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8700	Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8701	You spoke about your conscience, and I think it is good, and that it should be welcomed that today's attorney in response is also mentioned in your first line that this institute is not a problem at all, it is the right of every citizen, of course, the right to be regulated, but it is the right to be provided to every citizen. But what's most important about this report you mentioned, which is that regardless of political differences or even secular differences that we all need to be involved in the fight against discrimination, in the fight against violence. You mentioned domestic violence or domestic violence, it may be better to use domestic violence, as we say violence against women, so we should say fighting violence against women, we are not talking about female violence, so I think it is more correct to speak domestic violence or violence against families or against families because it really is. That violence is destroying the family.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8702	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8703	Dear fellow Stier, as far as this game of words domestic violence, domestic violence, domestic violence is at this point a technical term is a family violence I would leave it to the linguists, although in principle I may understand what you wanted to say. But as far as the institute is concerned, it is a multidisciplinary issue, there is a need to reach as broad a consensus as possible, to include more scientific disciplines and professions, but also stakeholders, to respect international and national regulations. Let them argue about the Institute of Consciousness, he is there only briefly highlighted and the Ombudsman explained it very nicely, so where there are certain problems by doing so, respecting the current legislation it needs to be resolved by the Ministry of Health, but it does not enter into the very essence of the Institute calling for conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8704	Mrs. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8705	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's my colleague, Puljak, said just one part of what I was about to say, that very today, very few male colleagues have discussed this topic which I commend and I welcome that you are brave and that some of you have come forward and debated and this is what we are discussing equally, of course, that we can't even discuss any equality. But what you talked about most is education and prevention. Of course, education and prevention is always the best and cheapest way for everyone, so investment and what is seen here through this report in the duration of the education of police officers, social workers and all those who need to participate in this is very important and I believe that this is the best way to prevent it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8706	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8707	Well, respected colleagues, Maximchuk, if we look at the numbers regarding the crimes, the perpetrators of violence were according to the latest statistics, 78% were men, but on the other hand, if we look at the number of victims of 3640 were women of the criminal sphere, and 1000 men, so here we are, the minority of the men we are here to talk about and that there are victims of male sex, but unfortunately, they are mostly perpetrators of male violence. And I'm not very happy when there are some who talk about some traditional values, they reduce the problem of violence against women, so they certainly don't contribute to the prevention of violence against women.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8708	And finally Mrs. Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8709	Dear fellow Cellic. You mentioned in your presentation of a psychological trauma resulting from domestic violence, but we must also mention that component of physical real violence that results in tissue trauma to disability. There is a lack of education for healthcare professionals, since I come from the field of emergency medicine and anesthesiology, we are usually the first to meet with such patients, then we have patients meeting, and in fact is education, I agree that much has been done in the field of police, social work, but with the medics in that segment is quite little work. So here's what I'm appealing to Mrs. Attorney General for Gender Equality to bring us as health workers closer to that segment of our work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8710	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8711	Dear colleagues of the coat of honor. So, the latest amendments to the Penal Code are also a physical assault on medical personnel. If we look at the issue of domestic violence and violence against women with the ratification of the Convention and the harmonisation of the legislative framework, there have also been some changes in the Law on protection against domestic violence in which the physical force is being prosecuted in the event of no physical injury, and in all other cases this is being committed as a criminal act, so I agree with you, education is, in my opinion, the key to success. We deal with the situation on the ground when something happens, and we take much less care of prevention. Unfortunately, that's the way it is about health, but also about violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8712	Thank you very much. No more replicas. And finally, in front of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, Mr Tomislav Tomasevic will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8713	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This will not be a classic individual exposure, i.e. the exposure on behalf of the club as it would be more appropriate if it were individual exposure. A lot of colleagues Rada Boric already said about this report, I can also, as regards course on behalf of the club, also praise and commend the attorney for gender equality and somehow give him praise and in the way that only the report is structured, which is very detailed and very transparent and at all your systematic work. I think I can refer a little bit to this reproductive rights that my colleague Glasovac mentioned, so I think it's quite the subject of the report, and I don't see what was going on here, and it wasn't a topic, because you're clearly writing in the report, and I'm glad that it's clearly and loudly saying that all health institutions are not able to provide a job in Croatia to stop pregnancy, and it writes clearly even in the conclusion of the report and that's the fact. We, as you know if I am not wrong about the latest statistics if they are the good ones I have, more than 50% of gynecologists in Croatia have a conscience appeal compared to Slovenia where this data is only 3%. I'm sorry, it can't go on like that. We can't have a situation that health institutions, entire health institutions can't provide that health care service, so I'm glad it's clear in the report. Many things in the report are well defined and I am pleased to mention and to mention discrimination against transgender persons, of course political participation where women are fully sub-represented, so here we see both in HS and in local authorities, etc., media reporting, labour market etc. However, what I would like to stress specifically and thank you for this is that you have been involved in a public debate on the City of Zagreb's Demographic Development Strategy 2019-2031, and I think many know what I'm talking about, which is a parent-teacher measure. So since this was the year of your report in 2019, we all know that in 2016 this measure was adopted in Zagreb as a pre-election measure and then the Advocate's Office warned that it was not a very good measure of interest, especially women, because from 2016 to 2019 although the measure is called parent-teacher, 89% are women who use this measure. And here we have two problems, one problem for gender equality or gender equality is especially the situation that these women are, but almost exclusively women get that measure. Now we have about 5,000 users already, it is exponentially growing, even some people are moving to Zagreb with the prospect that they will be able to use that measure in the future. Since it is a very long time period, and actually these women after the measure expires, and they will expire very hard to return to the labour market, then they are dependent on their employment partners, or on any income, and it actually permeates further gender inequality and discrimination. On the other hand, it is also not good, nor is it in the children's interest, since as the measure is unfortunately now defined, these children are not allowed to go to kindergarten. We talked a lot about kindergartens, about EU goals, about almost full coverage of preschool children, here these children are not allowed to go to kindergartens and, of course, harm their socialisation, and unfortunately they show a number of research and their educational results later in primary and secondary education, so I'm glad that you got involved because it was a very important situation. Unfortunately, your remarks were not accepted, but the City of Zagreb Demography Office went into review and measures only months after the public debate in January of this year, however, unfortunately the audit was stopped. What we were hoping we could do, since of course we are aware that the existing users are in a very difficult situation when the measure would now be interrupted abruptly, if they would no longer receive these benefits, given that many women have quit to be able to get this measure, but we have requested one suspension of at least new users until all the effects of this measure are evaluated, especially from the perspective of gender equality, so I wanted to thank you at this local level at your engagement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8714	Thank you very much. And now the lawyers for gender equality Mrs. Višnja Ljubicic will have the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8715	Dear Vice President of HS, I thank you for your closing statement. Dear MPs, MPs, representatives of all parliamentary clubs, political clubs thank you for your support, constructive proposals and for everything that has been said today during these 6 hours of debate on the report of the institution's attorney. Today we have had the opportunity to hear most of the support, but we have had the opportunity to hear one or two different opinions of parliamentary deputies relating to the very structure of the work and activity of an independent institution from numbers, employees to the financial resources of the institution, to what the institution should do or what the institution is not working or falsifying to do. In order to resolve the misunderstandings, I will start from very similar remarks that have been heard today, which have been highlighted in part by the Assembly Committee on Gender Equality. The issue of a prominent budget in 2019 of 6 million kuna was therefore raised, 6 million kuna includes changes and additions to the State budget for the Republic of Croatia in 2019. and the 2020 and 2011 projections and what the Ombudsman has done with its work on European projects, but the state-level allocations from the state budget have received or spent. I feel like the last five years, now six years. We've been working on four European projects and the last 5 years. We are spinning on the budgets of this institution with special items which are shown here in a tax and very transparent manner, somewhere for the Republic of Croatia, somewhere around, slightly less than EUR 2 million. With such substitutes and such manipulations, I would say that the Ombudsman's institution wants to punish itself for its proactiveness because the European funds did not pass on to the institution's budget, but in the fierce competition of 150 institutions at 28 Member States, the small institution of the Ombudsman and its partners managed to bring funds that did not invest in their salaries because we guarantee, sometimes by 6 employees of this office, we try to implement it through the national and local or regional level. So that's the question about the financial budget. As regards today's thesis that we have very few cases of discrimination, only 503 of which, in 124 cases, discrimination has been found. Does this mean that the institution does not have an effective approach in recognising pre-discrimination and that in some way it does not waste human potentials on complaints called for discrimination? I must say that such a philosophical approach deviates from the positive rules and competences of independent institutions that have to carry out the examination procedure in a series of two laws and the Law on Equality and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, but as one state body is also a step away from the Office Business Act where you, on every complaint of citizens and citizens who say that they are breaking her rights because this is not only an anti-discriminatory body, but is also a body that deals with infringements of rights by the grounds for which we are in charge, we must examine, determine and answer. At times, it is not an examination procedure because the examination procedure includes if a person gives more indication that discrimination involves certain facts and evidence and that burden of proof lies on the employer so that we can determine whether discrimination has been made in a particular case. When we talk about 1,100 cases, we talk about those other ones that make up the majority, and which only 1/3 refers to discrimination, it turns out that the institution is wasting state money, state resources and deals with only 1/3 of citizens who complain about discrimination. However, these 2/3 cases, which we are dealing with, are cooperation with institutions, cooperation, research, analysis, media co-operation, citizens' right to information, the right to legal aid, the right of citizens to identify certain facts, which necessarily do not have to involve an examination procedure concerning discrimination. In 2019, we had 503 cases of discrimination, for the purposes of comparatively, the other attorney generals had a female lawyer, 270 cases of discrimination on more than 10 discriminatory grounds, a lawyer for persons with disabilities 69 cases, a child lawyer for 42. Why do so many cases of the Ombudsman’s institution for gender equality have in relation to other discriminatory grounds? It is precisely because, in this society, discrimination is most often related to the creation of unequal opportunities for men and women in all those areas that we have talked about today where sub-representation really occurs, discrimination, zeroness, harassment, abuse in 2/3 of women cases. Here, I hope I have been able to explain about such a proposal to rationalise the institution in a financial sense and in a professional approach. As regards the use of termology where it is proposed to the institution to use more neutral terminology and value systems where we have cited, under quotes, because it was about complaints from a number of citizens about campaigns and initiatives that we have put in the bracket according to the allegations of the complaints they are addressing, and various initiatives in these campaigns, civil society organisations in these campaigns and initiatives, we have put the term “Antiabortus campaign” because, out of the complaints of citizens under that name, they address us and complain about a number of civil society organisations and initiatives that advocate or promote or promote or in the opinion of citizens and citizens, or in health institutions or in educational educational institutions. Here I will refer to a legal term used by the opening part of the constitutional court that uses term opponents, quotes, so it is important that it is supposed to be, the right to abortion called "the advocates of the right to life". So, a very similar common denominator on initiatives that are legally happening in the Republic of Croatia, but at the moment when we receive complaints from citizens where we are looking at the foundations of such initiatives whether they are being done in health institutions or working in educational institutions, then we must ask for an indication of both institutions. So I was asked on the House Committee on Gender Equality, Selak why I reacted about the video film in several educational institutions that spoke about the termination of pregnancy or the struggle for life. So, what this film promotes directly or not directly is that women are marked as killers, and if we want to be legalists, we need to know that killing children is a criminal offence and that promoting such values, namely giving a direct or not direct picture of a woman who is a murderer of an unborn child is a discrimination based on sex and contributes to a certain stigma of all those women who use the possibility of stopping pregnancy. I really don't have a problem with criticizing or working me personally, or my consistent and large part where I try to be credible in all these different proposals that an independent institution should be guided, you all have your own political views, world view, therefore beliefs, I really don't have a problem with that. However, in this sense I have a very clear fence to what extent this criticism is constructive and if it is legal, it can be accepted from our side. So, I'm open to constructive suggestions, but they have to be legal. And here, in this part where I was talking about these remarks about how we should rationalise our actions and resources, I think that we are the ones who need to monitor institutions that are not responding, that are ignoring and that, which have de facto silence of the administration, we monitor them, and we should ultimately be equal to the citizens and not answer them because we think that their rights are not being violated or that they are wrong with their views and their observations. I must say that the observation regarding, this is that this report is not actually a report from the Ombudsman's institution but is a report compiled by statistical data from other state bodies and that the institution's work comes down to only 6 pages. Only our introductory statistics in 330 pages have 12 pages. What's skipped to say about the activities themselves is that we organized 14 independent workshops last year, 3 education lectures, 3 conferences, 2 round tables, 1 regional meeting and about 42 international and regional meetings. All 330 sides through all the problems and through the national statistics that we combine and pair through the individual cases that we are facing are, in fact, showing what we are doing, what we are doing, what our initiatives are, what obstacles we are facing, and how the institutions we are addressing are addressing all those requirements that we are addressing based on the requirements and the problems our citizens and citizens face. I have to say that, yes, here it means misrepresenting statistics I think I've been able to explain what this is all about and that this way might be talking about the fact that the MP didn't read 330 pages of the report enough. I know that many think it's too long, but those who are interested in work can always very transparently and up to the smallest details get all of our activities, but also a picture at national level. What I owe to MP Katazia, and what he said was on the pages of the report on the conclusion of early marriages of the Roma national minority, we referred to the government's Office for Human Rights and the rights of national minorities who have just relied on this problem for research carried out in 2018. of Prof. Klasnić from the Faculty of Law, which spoke of a low level of awareness of the protection of the reproductive rights of women of the Roma national minority in their early marriages and underage pregnancies, and this problem is also recognized in the National Strategy for Roma Inclusion. When we talk about women members of national minorities, then, of course, we appreciate such research as is covered by the domicile population and by the resolute body of the government where we are looking at whether they have taken certain measures according to action plans and strategies, whether these measures are unused and what has been done to improve a particular area. That's why it's important for us to consult the resolution bodies and see what they've done to the true state of things. It has been discussed several times today and in some ways, I do not know how to say more about the neutrality of the work of the institution and my appointment and my impartiality or at some point on the parliamentary committee is said, the legislative activity I am carrying out, it is mentioned today that I was chosen on the proposal of the ruling nomenclature, and that I have actually questioned in some way the work of the institution and the way the institution thinks and acts of independence. I will mention here that on the day of due date according to the Law on Gender Equality, the current government proposed candidate or candidate Croatian Parliament, and in this case in my appointment 92 MPs were for, 6 there were abstentions and no one against. I would say that after the first term of office that I have had this second term, I hold that he has been recognized by MPs and advocates based on everything this institution has done, and so have I, along with her. I am obliged to answer and to answer our questions, our enquiries to the institutions, whether they're public or even employers who hire lawyers and say we're in trivia. Therefore, the equal opportunity of both men and women on the labour market is seen by some employers, together with law offices, as being trivial and that it is unnecessary to conduct a discussion or to show themselves on an individual inquiry. So, regarding the unreading of certain state institutions, and in this case, if it is the general hospitals in Croatia, we are always looking for specific topics that are expensive for a conversation with the Minister of Resolute and then looking for answers to the issues and problems that citizens are giving us, which we ourselves, without their sensitivity and without their tenacity, cannot solve. So we will also talk to the current health minister and other issues that are already on the agenda, and this is the achievement of the health care of transgenders related to the birth date in hospitals, which is limited by the current situation of covid. So, some of the things that are open and not solved while a part of it is solved through its recommendations, but we want to solve these open issues because we think we can get an answer or a good will on that partner side. I think I've touched all the more important issues today that I'd said may not have been articulated enough during the parliamentary committee or during my opening speech, but I thank you for staying here and for being able to comment on it together. I thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8716	Thank you, too. Stay here. I want to say that it's five hours and 36 minutes that I'm standing here blocking this chair and that certain human rights are not respected and let it be recorded equally stenographically, but I will still give these last two replicas, I will enable these last two replicas, the first is Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8717	Thank you, Vice President. ... The Parliament is fighting for its human rights, and perhaps even a lawyer can help. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] I'd like to tell you the attorneys of the criticism I've heard, and I've been sitting on the big majority of the debate here, I'm experiencing as unfounded and actually ideologically motivated, and I don't think they should prevent you, and you need to pay too much attention to them because you're doing a good job, that's what most of these people here have told you. What you didn't say out loud is what I might point out, which is that I'm very upset that you're ours, you're like our extended hand, let's say that in the preservation of human rights, and that some state institutions don't cooperate with you that you should have DORH, the police and many others, etc., that's something that needs to be changed and I want to point out and I want constant attention to someone ignoring you as our commissioners. So you're the commissioner of this House, you're elected by the Parliament, you're our body and... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8718	Thank you very much. The D.A.'s office, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8719	I thank you for noticing. I have so far had the opportunity to discuss exactly these issues of cooperation on family violence and how to qualify a certain part of family violence as a criminal or criminal offence, and the remarks I have collected from the police on the ground and through education where they themselves in certain situations and at local level have good co-operation with the State's attorneys, and somewhere they do not. So, I wanted to see how we connect our institution to education in a way that will be shared either through the Judicial Academy or through the Police Academy, but I must say that every time the answer is that they have enough education on domestic violence, but what we have criticised is that at the Judicial Academy, the judges mostly teach themselves, do not include enough community, neither academic or civil society organisations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8720	Thank you very much. Mrs. Puljak has another replica. Thank you, thank you very much. Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8721	Here's a thank you. Here at the beginning is also the support of your work and I would like to hear your comment on this idea of the President of the Republic that the Offices of All Advocates be grouped under one of the Offices of one Advocate. What do you think about, is it a promotion or maybe, maybe you'd better coordinate with some other sectors and so forth, or is it, or do you think that's not a good idea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8722	Thank you. First-guessers, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8723	Dear MPs thank you for your question, I have been working on these issues for the past 20 years, harmonising national legislation with European Union legislation and European Union court practice, working in the Human Rights Office since 2000, and I have conducted negotiations on 2 difficult areas. The great benefit of the Republic of Croatia was that it passed anti-discrimination laws and strategies and that we managed to establish defence and anti-discrimination independent bodies for individual areas. Each country has a different model but we are networked with an ECVINET network, so a network of independent institutions at European Union level where this specialisation of institutions that are focused on certain rights brings great benefits to improving the standards of democracy of a country. I'll mention that 20 years before that, when we had a single occupier of gender equality, two pages were dedicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-10-08-0.u8724	Thank you very much. Time. Unfortunately. Thank you. Thank you very much. You're free, and I'm almost free, too, after I tell you that tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities for 2019. We're done arguing, we'll vote when the conditions are met. Thank you. I'll see you in the morning. Session adjourned at 17.41 p.m.
