ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186743	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We are starting with today's work and the first point as you know it will be: - Final proposal of the Law on the Declaration of Vukovar as a place of special homeland petite, second reading, P.Z. No 808 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on War Veterans. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, a respected state secretary at the Croatian Defence Ministry, Nevenka Benic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186744	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, everyone. The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs before you is the Final Proposal of the Law on the Declaration of Vukovar as a place of special homeland pitet. The government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed a law aimed at and in a special way to evaluate the role and sacrifice of Vukovar in the Homeland War as extremely important in the recent Croatian history. Vukovar is a symbol of resistance, victims of the common and defence sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War. It has an important and fateful place in the history of the Croatian state, fighting for freedom, national independence, territorial integrity and in the formation of modern Croatian cultural and national identity. We have therefore recognised the need to declare the Vukovar area as a special homeland petite and thus want to preserve the memory culture of Vukovar's victim, but also encourage activities aimed at the social development of the Vukovar area. A major Serbian aggression at Vukovar in 1991, the city's many-year occupation caused inconspicuous human losses, leaving both traces and profound lasting consequences on the rich historical and cultural heritage, and especially on its demographic picture. Analysis of the situation, particularly historical, professional, economic and demographic circumstances, has shown the need to determine the special status of Vukovar. For this reason, the law promotes a systematic approach, monitoring and promotion of different forms of social development and the establishment of mechanisms that allow concrete development measures to be taken. The legislative proposal defines the concept of a special country pitet, an area that covers, or to which it relates, places, period and method of marking a special country pitet. The Homeland War Memorial cemetery defines as the central place of award of a special homeland petite and also the central place of honour to the national victim in the establishment of an independent Republic of Croatia. The marking includes the development of educational activities and the preparation of professional educational materials with the purpose of getting to know both the student and other visitors of Vukovar about the historical facts of the Homeland War and keeping the memory of the role of Vukovar and his defenders in defence and the creation of the Republic of Croatia. The law provides for an inter-resorship body of the Council for Homeland Pitet, Peace and Development of 17 members and appointed by the Government, which consists of representatives of the Office of the President, Office of the President of the Government, Committee of the Croatian Parliament for War Veterans, Ministry of Croatian Defence, Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, Ministry of Science and Education, Culture, Defence, MUP, Public Institute of the Memorial Center of the Homeland War, Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, Fund for the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, Vukovar-Srijem County, representatives of the city of Vukovar and 3 representatives of Croatian defenders and victims from the Homeland War area of Vukovar. The Council shall monitor the construction, arrangement, maintenance and any further intervention in the places where the special domestic pitet is marked and propose to the competent authorities measures and activities to protect and monitor their implementation. The Council shall also carry out scientific research activities in cooperation with competent institutions with the aim of preserving, researching and promoting the truth about the Homeland War and historical memory of the role of Vukovar. The Council shall also monitor the regulations and legislative and other activities of the competent authorities relating to the area of the special domestic pytetics and shall propose appropriate measures and activities to the competent authorities. The funds for the implementation of this law shall be provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia and in the budget of the units of local and regional or regional self-government. With this law, the emphasis is placed on keeping the memory of the death of Vukovar and the entire Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War and on the implementation of educational, scientific and research, economic and other activities. In relation to the text of the draft law which was discussed in the first reading, and according to comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate and in the report of the Croatian Parliament's working bodies, the amendments to Articles 2, 9, 11, 22 and 26. It is mostly about nomotechnical changes and one amendment relating to the precision of the activities of outside members of the Board for Homeland Pitet, Peace and Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186745	Thank you. We've got more replicas on your exhibit. The first is the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186746	Dear Secretary of State, tell me the answer to one simple question. Will this law solve the problem of Cyrillic panels in the city of Vukovar or is this all one pre-election play by HDZ?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186747	The next replica is the respected representative of Miro Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186748	There's no answer, is there? Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186749	Thank you very much. Dear Secretarys of this Act Vukovar place of special homeland pitet to be traditionally marked under Vukovar place of special pitet. So we changed the name, basically, here is one and the basic question in Vukovar, which is why the signatures for the 2013 referendum were collected. I am proud to say that I was a co-ordinator in the Cetina region when 65,000 signatures were collected, and the key question was bilinguality, Cyrillic plates that were the symbol of the Vukovar attack and all the crimes and by raising those records essentially, criminals would triumph there. Is this a law that solves the problem of Cyrillic plates in Vukovar, or is this law just a pamphlet? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186750	The next replica is the respected representatives of Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186751	No, we're not going to solve the biggest Vukovar problem, and that's gone in the Homeland War, those for which these days, a little, only after a long 20 years, we find out who they were, and they were heroes. So Zeljko Manikas, who was unrecognizable for 28 years, the HoS, the Zagreb boy from Dubrava, was exhumed after his parents died as well. So as long as we don't know where our people are gone, this law won't make any real sense, and the only problem is that you didn't do enough to make ours disappear, at least to find out where their graves are and their parents, while they're alive, can bury them. Guys like that fought for this country, and we owe it to them. The boys who, one of them, 55 HOS were, Zeljko Manikas Redcapa died fighting and passing the staff of death through the cornfield.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186752	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Zekanovic raised his hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186753	That's right. I'm looking for a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club for further consultations on this bill. We have a problem here, which is a big problem. The secretary of state obviously doesn't understand the purpose of her presence here at the session. So, MPs ask questions, and the applicant, and you are the proposing, or the proposing representative, answers questions. Otherwise you really don't have to be here. So you really don't have to be here, go, have coffee, don't have to be in the assembly. So, you got a few questions both from colleagues and from me, my question was extremely clear, extremely clear. Will this law solve the problem of Cyrillic plates in the city of Vukovar? I know the answer, you know it, but I want you to say it. He won't. And this law is one big, big game. And you know it. So, it's about one of the most sensitive topics for the Croatian people, it's about the city of Vukovar, and it's actually, now it's about internal purposes, and it's also about pre-election purposes, given that the parliamentary elections are close, the HDZ government is trying to show the right government, the conservative government, the government of Christian Democrats, and that's not because this is one big, big game. So this law won't solve the problem that caused this law to be launched, which is the problem of Cyrillic plates, or bilingual panels in the city of Vukovar. Mr. Marijan Zivkovic, who was convicted and gave 2 sons, 2 sons he put on the altar of the homeland, is not satisfied with this law because he does not solve the problem which is very painful to him. Not only him, but all the Werewolves, all the Vukovars, and I'll tell all the Croats and the Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186754	Sure, I'll give you a break and I'll see you in 9 and 50 minutes. [[It's 9:00.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] Here's a nice fellow, the break is up, so we'll continue with the replicas, we have a replica of the respected representative Tomislav Zhagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186756	Thank you, Vice President HS. Your Honor. Benic, here in this line I will try briefly to explain the amendment that my colleague Orepic and I will submit to this bill, in the debate we will explain this in more detail. Namely, in Art. 21. where the composition of the council is predicted I think it would be good, given that although this law applies to the territory of the Municipality of Bogdanovci and the city of Vukovar, it is clear that the spirit of the law and the objective of the law crosses the borders of these municipalities, so it would be good in art. 21st to include representatives of the Croatian Association of County, Croatian Community of Municipalities or Association of Cities, perhaps one representative or more of them, we need to see about this, as well. 26. when we talk about financing activities predicts that units of local self-government are involved in funding, and it is quite clear that many schools not only through the education system, but through other systems can also today mark this by visiting Vukovar, so local self-government units from the area, such as schools from the field of these units of local self-government could be included in the funding, it's the intensity of the amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186757	The next replica of the respected representative Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186758	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, what bothers me personally, which is when a state institution begins to change history, I will remind you that the City Council of the City of Vukovar at a session in November 2013 declared Vukovar a place of special pitet. You in Art. 1st century 1st, you state that you are declaring it a place of special homeland pitet, so I wonder if, then, if the statute should be re-changed after who, who is now the source, are the citizens of Vukovar, their legal representatives or is it the wish of the ministry to make a new coin that may be even more valuable than the one that was in 2013 and in general was something that represented the position of then elected representatives in the city council of the citizens of Vukovar. In my opinion, what it is, you may have given a little bit of drama here bigger, but we're getting to it really in the expression that you're changing history again as it suits the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186759	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, John Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186760	Honorable Vice President and Honorable Secretary, it is right and worthy of the adoption of this law. 2717 people were killed in Vukovar, the camper was 3200, exiled 22000, for little Vukovar it's too many numbers, which is too much, and what is expected by listening to longer breakdowns, so a few generations should pass, the city should start to live, the images should fade, so that we can move towards solving the accumulated problems, and not implement unreasonable Cyrillic politics, does that benefit Vukovar?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186761	Thank you. And the last replicas of the esteemed representative of Željko Raguž.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186762	Dear State Secretary, in public Republic of Vukovar has been the site of a special homeland petite since 1991. With this law, the Croatian state systematises the efforts of the authorities of educational and educational and scientific research institutions in the best possible way, so the law regulates all issues of special state interest which will implement two key needs for Vukovar, respect for its role in modern history and its further economic development.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186763	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Dear President of the Committee on War Veterans Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186764	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, ma'am. State secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. HS War Veterans Committee held on 12 February 2020 at its 25th session He considered the Final Proposal for a Law on the Declaration of Vukovar as a place of special homeland petite submitted to the President by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by its act of 6 February 2020. The Committee has examined the act in question in the capacity of the home working body in accordance with the provisions of the Article. 91. The Rules of Procedure of HS. According to the proposing representatives, this law lays down the area in which the same places, period and way of marking a special country petite is concerned, and establishes a special inter-resor body composed of representatives of the defence and victims' populations and representatives of the relevant institutions of the Republic of Croatia. The differences between the text of the proposal and the text of the final draft law are mostly nomotechnical since some proposals and first reading remarks have been accepted. In the discussion, members of the board supported this law declaring Vukovar a special country petite because of its extremely important role in the Homeland War, especially respect for the dead and missing Croatian defenders both in Vukovar and in all other places, as well as for all other defenders and victims. The opinion is expressed that this law will contribute and be the basis for the adoption of regulations that will allow the removal of street names and monuments that offend the feelings of the defenders and the victims of Vukovar. With this law, the memory culture of victims has fallen to the battle for an independent and sovereign Republic rises to a higher level, and in Vukovar it is necessary to restore life, justice and faith to state institutions. An inquiry on the way of special protection for the places in which it is situated is also asked, marking a special country pitet, i.e. the infringement provisions provided for in this Regulation. After the discussion, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on the Declaration of Vukovar of Special State Pitet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186765	Thank you very much. I will now open the debate and the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Željko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic will speak to the esteemed representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186766	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I've already told the State Secretary at the station what's bothering me, and I'm going to do it again and I'm going to explain. So, despite the fact that the rapporteur in front of the board, Mr Djakic pointed out here that this solves the problem of Cyrillic panels in Vukovar, it is not true. He's not getting rid of it. This law is a typical, ordinary play. This law does not solve the problem of Cyrillic plates in Vukovar. This law does not resolve that Marijan Zivkovic is a man who has given two sons to the Altar homeland, indicted and tried, the problem is not solved. This law actually, although there are some good provisions in it, but it is actually playing with the most important, and the biggest victims of the Homeland War, which is the city of Vukovar because this time it is used exclusively for political, pre-election purposes. And this law won't solve any of the problems that are plagued by the Vukovars. Croatians and Croats will continue to pilgrimage to Vukovar to mark the day of the fall of the city of Vukovar and despite this law. But it will still be possible to unconstitutional, illegal and against common sense to set Cyrillic plates in the city of Vukovar and that is the problem. And then when I ask you from this place, and you are obliged to answer me, will this problem that prompted the creation of this law be solved, you do not have the courage of the Croatian public not to solve it. So this law is not worth anything because this problem will not be solved. And when we talk about the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, things are clear here. Therefore, the basic provisions of Article 8, the provisions of this constitutional law and the provisions of specific laws governing the rights and freedoms of members of national minorities must be interpreted, applied with a view to respecting members of national minorities and Croatian peoples, the development of understanding, solidarity, tolerance and dialogue between them. The Cyrillic plates do not do this, they do not work on tolerance nor on dialogue, nor on developed understanding, nor on solidarity nor on national minorities in this context of the Serb national minority, and of course the Croatian people, the majority people in Croatia and in the town of Vukovar, of course. What's the problem? The problem lies in this assembly, the problem lies in this government. Yesterday I said I will repeat today, because Milorad Pupovac is a member of the coalition that runs today our state of Croatia He is yesterday helping here from this assembly, the highest home of the Croatian people, just so there are no wars, as if the Croats have attacked themselves since '91. By '95, they didn't. He was attacked by members of his people who were rogue in the Chetnik movement. And then we will reward that national minority by setting up Cyrillic plates, and we will confuse the Croats. What? We're going to confuse them with some insubstantial bill proposals. So the game isn't going to work. The problem is not solved, you've lost time, you've spent money on printing these materials, your colleagues are going to argue here, and in fact it's all crazy, because Marijan Zivkovic and the others who are rightly bitter will not have the satisfaction they must have because they gave their sons to sit here today so that I can talk here today from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186767	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186768	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, the Honorable Secretary with her associates, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a proposal for a law in the second reading Final Proposal for a Law to declare Vukovar a place of special pitet. I've been thinking here about this law, and I'm a board member, and I've been warning all along that this law has absolutely no purpose whatsoever. There is no point because national minorities in Croatia have a constitutional law on national minorities, which is passed 2/3 of the majority they have all rights, and thus Croatia and I personally and neither the MOST Club have any problems. However, if we are talking about Vukovar as a special pitetite, the first question is why this proposal changed its name when it was traditionally marked in Vukovar and this was accepted by Vukovars and all of Croatia by Vukovar as a special pitet. The question arises why this name is added. It's a nice name, country, but why narrow Vukovar to the homeland, but it's not a place of special pie and out of country. Vukovar is the site of a special pitet in the whole world. So, what for? I still haven't got one superfluous answer that changed the name. Secondly, a very important question that very, so the key question is this story, we have to go back to 2013. In 2013, Cyrillic plates were created in Vukovar, but when we talk about Cyrillic, we are not talking against Cyrillic letters, however, I am for bilingualism no problem in Istria, no problem in other parts of any national minority, however, this is not even a blow to the national Serb minority, but 9,000 people of the Serb national minority were in all units and Croatian defence forces of HOS and the MUP and Croatian military, both in Croatia and in Vukovar, and we should always point out that national minorities, among other things, and the Serb national minority, gave great pain in defence of the large-scale Chetnic aggression. However, in 2013, records were placed, but in Vukovar we should look at the plates of Cyrillic, not as a letter, but when the plates are placed it is a triumph of Cyrillic, criminals. I don't see it here at all, i.e. The triumph of those cutthroats, it's triumph, and the loss of the victims. And that's how the Vukovars look when they see unresolved problems, i.e. Not taking our bodies in pursuit where they're still at large, both rapists and criminals. So who was responsible for the great Serbian crime in Vukovar anyway? And those plates of Cyrillic should be seen as triumphs of those who sang songs under that letter... send us salads will be meat we will slaughter Croats. We have to look through the prism of Marijan Zivkovic who was tried for that panel, who broke the board, because he can't see if two sons lost it. We can't look at the circumstances of the Vukovar we're declaring a place of special pitet if it's the main cause of the referendum initiative, I was also proud to point out and co-ordinator for the cetin area where 653,000 signatures were collected. Citing the Constitutional Act on National Minorities of Art. 12. If we had something special in Vukovar as we passed the law, and it would be a special feature if it wasn't for the triumph of the great Serbian criminals, we're talking about Vukovar. In this law, we don't handle it. The key problem of speciality is this problem that we do not solve with this law except for this key problem of Cyrillic panels. I would ask the secretary of state to answer publicly whether the issue is solved by this law, the key problem, the source of the problem of impatience, the source of what is happening to the Cyrillic plates? It doesn't work. And so when we talk about Vukovar, we can't give laws that will be exclusive and only pamphlets, we don't have the right to do that because of these people. And then the Constitutional Court said no matter what the referendum initiative was. Eight that you've copied here, but that article doesn't solve that problem. With this bill, you are essentially strengthening the installation of bilingual panels. This is what we're talking about, Vukovar, the victim, the symbol of resistance to great Serb aggression, and we're not going to see this through the prism of bilingualism in the Republic of Serbia. If Vukovar has passed a law special, then it can only be upgraded in the case of Vukovar and admit it by the Constitutional Law on National Minorities, where Vukovar would be exempt. 8 of this question or withdraw this law, or if we agree that Vukovar is a place of special pitet, then we change that constitutional law which is not why the referendum is not called on in the matter of whether the Constitutional Court gave it to 653,000 people a little less than 700,000 people, the citizens of the Republic signed that referendum initiative in 2013. What's in this law? So in this law, when it's actually spilled, it's how it's going to mark those four days in Vukovar, the area of a special homeland pie, as you say, but until today, these places have been marked. So in those four days, everything that was written here was marked. Here it writes building and editing of objects, marking of places, it is all marked we can mark, which flags will be in a way whether to be Vukovar-Srijem and the city of Vukovar, Croatian flag of course. In fact, you put what's already going on here, and you haven't solved the key problem. The educational activities that are being conducted, the Memorial centers are all still there today in Vukovar, but the key problem has not been solved. It is not solved I know for which reason, only you know it in the Ministry of Defence why, but because of the Vukovar and the Croatian public, we must speak exclusively and only what is in this law. I would ask you when you're solving the Vukovar question, I have an obligation to say that if we remember people who gave their lives in Vukovar, if I remember here in Vukovar, people who aren't Vukovar have given it. Here I am proud of my Sinjana, the edge of Poljak Sokola, who was the commander of the Fair, was the property of Jerek, was my Andrija... also the Sinjanin. Here's a colleague of Ines Zeljko Manikas Redkap who is also a hero, who was found recently and simply no longer has any family members, his father and mother died, on the missing, we solved nothing, and what we did today we came into that position that none of his closest or buried them. I expected it because the prime minister has repeatedly stressed that with the EU the Commission will also solve the speciality with the EU Commission, that Vukovar will get the benefits it absolutely deserves, in an economic, economic and development sense, that it will be resolved. You can't see it at all. So this is the prime minister on several occasions, that this particular issue, the economic, developmental one, will be resolved with the EU commission to make this speciality a Vukovar. To be and absolutely deserves it. I claim, once again, that this law does not solve a key problem. I'm sorry that this, as I'm going to call it, about Vukovar is being talked about, I, I can't support it because there's no problem of a special pie, nothing special here is listed. And it's not the key, it's the key that hurts the victims of Vukovar. Manny, I also tried on the Veterans Committee, and I figured there would be another reading and that you would try to solve what should be solved, but there is no solution in this legislative proposal. Here's the last thing I'd say, the town of Vukovar deserves a special pie. There is absolutely no problem in this law, no key problem has been solved, means bilingualism, Cyrillic plates and you must admit it to the public and please do not wave this pamphlet in campaigns because you did not solve the problem that the Vukovars expected of you because apparently, this government is more concerned with whether Serbia will enter the EU than with the missing. Not only in Vukovar, but 1 871 missing Croatian defender. I expect answers from you. Of you, since you are not solving the key problem of bilingualism, it would be correct to withdraw this law and find a lasting solution to the conversation and communication and opposition and the majority and finally solve this problem, not to deceive the Vukovars. Because don't forget when the Cyrillic plates are placed, I don't know which government they're going to be, so the same things don't happen again. And once again, I have absolutely nothing, however, Croatian, i.e. Constitutional law, called constitutional law, is called because the two-thirds majority has been passed, now whether constitutional or not, but the organic law on national minorities guarantees rights and bilingual panels and all rights of national minorities. But let's subtract the victim from the great Serbian aggression, Vukovar, from that law in this part of the bilingual record, Cyrillic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186769	The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Marijana Balic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186770	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. So, before us today, the final proposal of the Law on the declaration of Vukovar is the place of a special homeland pitet whose adoption of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ will, of course, support it. The meaning of Vukovar's concept, at least in the political space that we all share, has something less than the political actors that make it. To some, he is a hero city and represents a symbol of resistance, sacrifice, victory and unity in the Homeland War. For some, he is a column of memories and only occasionally marking the site of suffering. To some, it is a home, an opportunity for a dignified life, for raising a family and planning a future. For me, Vukovar is the source of the deepest sufferings and the greatest joys. He predetermined me to represent and defend his interests, and that is why today I am extremely proud to have the opportunity here to specify the wishes of the population of Vukovar. This deserved opportunity of the Vukovar region and the legal start of the Croatian territorial integrity that we know today, was initiated by this government and thus returned the moral debt that every Croatian citizen has been carrying, which has been forgotten for too long. We all know what Auschwitz is, because the world has stopped, stood up and promised not to do it again. We all know what Vukovar is, we all know that, and now is the time to decide what to do with that knowledge. This law aims to preserve the permanent memory and memory of the sacrifice the city made in the Homeland War. Similarly, it offers a framework that will enable the city and the whole end to return to the Croatian people's trackways in an educational, economic, demographic and historical context. This law is not the final solution to all the problems we face in Vukovar, but it is a significant step on the road. Every nation, every country has its own historical events that are embedded in the memory of the people. Events that mark his turning points, his victims, his victories. The Vukovar is all that, and the turning point and the sacrifice and victory. The parliamentary councils are changing, governments are changing, the presidents of the Republic of Croatia are changing, but the victim of the city of Vukovar remains a permanent symbol of unspeakable family tragedies, materialising the worst cruelty of evil a man can have in himself, but at the same time, my Vukovar remains and is a symbol of community, victory and hope. The victim of Vukovar was not in vain, but a sacrifice for eternity, a sacrifice many cannot even comprehend, a price of material and mental which cannot even be calculated. Vukovar is the very foundation of modern and democratic Croatia. Every tear released in Vukovar and due to Vukovar has given birth to the benefits that Croatia today enjoys from 1991 to today. That is why I am convinced that this law needs Croatian society and I believe that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, all Croats around the world, all who participated in the defense of the city of Vukovar, all those who were exiled from Vukovar, all those who returned to Vukovar welcomed its adoption. The law also clearly demonstrates the presidential progress of the Croatian people over the past 30 years. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Vukovars and Vukovars, Croatian defenders and all those who are no longer with us bring back the well-deserved place and respect that they have earned by their sacrifice unspeakable. Let us show this through the complicated adoption of this law as a provision of permanent care for a city that literally died for Croatia to live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186771	The next Club of Representatives is the independent youth list on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Panenic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186772	Thank you very much, Vice President. What we have to say about these laws that the Proposer has brought here before us must only say that it belongs to those laws that HDZ is trying to bring to itself the entire history of the Homeland War. And it is always and now that the HDZ Club has spoken through the emotional speech of Parliamentarian Marijana Balic who personally survived it to try to show the reality that it is actually HDZ, that is what Marijana Balić was saying now, it wasn't said by the HDZ Club because she was the one who lived there and everyone who fought for Vukovar and everyone who gave pain and everyone who contributed very much, all of them should look at this and it's very difficult to communicate when in a certain period, with a certain intention to prepare something and show that after that life in the town of Vukovar, pain towards those who gave their life or death to the town of Vukovar will be more important and better. The ministry and the government have made it clear that there are no additional funds in the budget to be financed by the activities, all existing activities are. As I said in the replica on the presentation of the Ministry's representative, why the name change, why suddenly the homeland became so important if the local government said we told the place a special pitet. All of a sudden, we need to point out that in some way, the proposer wants to take even more to himself in some way to give historical importance, not respecting what the people in Vukovar, who represent the interests of the people of Vukovar themselves, have decided. It is even harder for me to see, when we see in recent days, that certain defenders were found exhumed, identified who, defending the Bogdanovites as an integral part of the defense city of Vukovar, gave their lives, and at the end of November 10th, when the day of the fall of the Bogdanovites did not belong to the days of marking the place of the special pite. Why was he left out? Why were the Bogdans left out? We see that in the legal proposal and are mentioned as a place that is covered, it will clearly indicate only not being placed in the marking, probably because it didn't look good, they fell earlier, they fell on November 10th, they didn't fall later when parts of the city of Vukovar fell, so they fell in continuity, but they just fell earlier, so someone would watch how to put them now doesn't belong we have one space as to how we're going to sum it up. I don't know what other reason to say that. So the Bogdans don't have special attention. The way local self-government in its best intention will organise it will be, so it has been good so far. And they marked and they were proud, and they were, and they felt like a place of special piety, and they showed that piety, but the legal proposal doesn't recognize them. He does not recognize all those who contributed to the defence of the city of Vukovar, but the legislator narrowed it down. He narrowed it down to the part that suits him. It expands somewhere where it can benefit itself, somewhere narrows down, so we're playing with facts. And then when the word of legality is to be kept, then it was appropriate in this bill to state that everything being carried out for the purpose of construction, regulation, maintenance of those sites must be implemented, is explicitly carried out by public procurement procedures. I ask you, and what if this provision was not laid down in this law, in order to conduct public procurement? Asked by the ruling HDZ how would you conduct public procurement if there was no such provision? How would you get something? In what way, is there any other way to get public bodies something? Something beneath the grain would be maybe like that, so maybe it would break it. So that's it, especially you've spoken to yourself. You have spoken in a way and we must be aware that we cannot interfere but must comply with the Public Procurement Act. It must be, to me, if there is a Public Procurement Act that applies to all public bodies, should there be a specialis in this law that you will stress you must obtain through the procurement procedure. If we're going to put in every law whatever it is we're going to do, we're going to have to do it through the public procurement process. It's impressive to me, it's simply remarkable how you've made this provision in fear of yourself. But that's why you didn't look back on what might be more important to the Vukovars in that section that some before me pointed out, and that's if you were to mark which place of the special piet, what would that mark look like? I ask the question, will it be possible in some future time bilingual? You did not stress that it will be Latin and in Croatian, you did not dare because it is the opposite of Andrej Plenkovic's policy. But with this, you are clear as in the City Council of Vukovar, a complex coalition with the SDSS, and here you have left one space where, one day, potentially in the place of a special pite, there is also a mark that, even in the Serbian letter, may rightly violate those who should most in these places, mark the death. You didn't dare do that. You didn't even dare put an indication don't put it in this place, it's special, it has a particularly emotional moment and a particularly emotional place that happens, but you don't need to put it. But about the public procurement you were very expressive in that. And you are even detailed that you share visitors with students and others, so they have students who really want to share knowledge, and everyone else is defenders who come from other parts of Croatia or who knows from the world, they stayed. So there are, you're just working in some way I don't know it's one game where you're trying to keep an eye on this, so we're going to put a little bit of emphasis on one group so that they're more grateful and we're going to point out that anyone who comes into the area of the town of Vukovar honors the victim of the town of Vukovar, he has the same name. If we say that they are visitors, all visitors from the smallest child to the oldest from any area in Croatia or the world are coming and don't separate. Exactly Vukovar should be a place of merger, not a place of separation. But you can have a separation, that's what I've already asked the question, which will happen at the moment when possible here's Alexander Vukovic to visit Vukovar, and you will highlight the foreign flag of the delegation as you listed them and then you will have the flag of the Republic of Serbia at the place where you mark a special pite. And I would like to see how you will explain this, that our current Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will say that everything is acceptable. But it won't be hard for you to shape is the greatest emphasis, well the only thing in my name is the novelty of the National Pitt Council, peace and development, which, when we look at by composition, does it belong to Vukovar? No, it does not belong to Vukovar, of the 17 scheduled members of the 12 are representatives of government offices, bodies, institutions, 1 representative of the county, 1 representative of the city and 3 are representatives of associations. You have brought down just those who are in the city of Vukovar who have suffered those who should represent themselves, you have created a minority of them, of these people you have created a minority. Instead of being the majority who will have the strength, have ways and through such a council to articulate their needs, to articulate what is the real desire of the citizens of Vukovar, no, we will have representatives here I would say the most from the Zagreb area is that somehow when we come here we are, perhaps this mental set then take all together, we are thinking institutionally and then we will shape about the city of Vukovar from this distance these representatives will be the marking of suffering, education. So you can't even agree on a curricula reform, and you said the Ministry of Science and Education would make materials. And I'm afraid one day that these materials will simply lose that power to show what the real defense was and what really was the destruction of the city of Vukovar and the citizens of Vukovar and all those who joined in that fight, simple politics will iron it out, and ultimately it will be one material that will not be educational but will compromise between the political options that make up the ruling majority. I would like to see what kind of material this year would be thrown out by the Ministry of Science and Education so that we can hear a comment from the Serbian party's representative Milorad Pupovac that he is showing up on the material is acceptable to him. The moment he says it's acceptable then all that's said here must have lost the sense sought by the people of Vukovar. And not to say that the issues of the marking of institutions, bilingualism, co-existence you haven't even touched with this, but you've only made one law that you've changed from that announcement to the realization to the whole, and in the end, really, as some of them have said before me, you'll have one pamphlet, and then we'll see. It may be interesting to see because the author of Prime Minister Tomo Medveda on one side as a candidate for Deputy HDZ and Mayor of Vukovar Ivan Penavu on the other hand, so they may be right here and there will be another asset in the hands of who is more responsible for the town of Vukovar. And after this will follow another law, there will be another hospital transfer, the state will accept. But to come to the hospital now that something more serious needs to be done there, what they're going to tell you, we don't have that kind of specialist material, we can't do anything about it. So you're not looking at the real content at all, but just form, just form and form destroying it, not Vukovar, destroying the entire Vukovar-Srijem County, and all those areas, and if no one wants to deal with the specific real problems that will prevent them from moving away one day when Vukovar is displaced and has already fallen below 20,000 inhabitants, then you'll really need to install in this law the importance of those who are alive, who remain in Vukovar and who suffer even after all the casualties that were in the war. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186773	The next club of MPs is that GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186774	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would also like to welcome the minister on behalf of the promoter, but there's an election campaign in the ruling party taking a toll, so he couldn't be with us today. By looking closely at the material that follows this bill, we can see that between the two readings, the Proposer did not appreciate a single remark or suggestion from the debate given in this high house at the time of the first reading. The changes that have been accepted are nomotechnical or technical and do not change in anything, absolutely neither at the concept nor at the expected effects of this law. The law is actually a failure because the subject of suffering and our debt to Vukovar failed, which in itself is paradoxical, causes mutual understanding of the position and opposition, consensus and agreement, even moreover, no one from the opposition has anything nice to say about this law. It's terrible, it's bad, it's in itself already testifying that the law isn't good because this isn't the law on anything, it's the law on something that's common value and one resilient point of the entire nation's modern identity. Wouldn't it be wiser if the idea had already become a special recognition to Vukovar by a special law, to create special conditions not only for honoring his sacrifice in history but also for opening windows and doors to the future that such a law was communicated between all political actors so that he would indeed have a foothold in general. Because there's no one healthy and pure in heart or in this hall, and I believe on the street who you'd ask if we stayed in debt to Vukovar and the Vukovars with our inaction and politicization of that question, and if we all wanted to pay back that debt together with one gesture that would have a lasting character, and above all in raising the quality of life of the living, everyone would say that we wanted to. It's just not well-intentioned, but it's those who don't even have a reason to celebrate in their own family, who don't see reasons for spreading understanding and love, so then even in politics they don't see any good, only they might have a dissonant tone. So I say, all men of pure hearts and healthy heads would stand behind an idea that would be the new wind of life in the sails of a hero city. I think it was supposed to come from a fundamental thing in determining the concept of a law like this, which is that the Vukovars who died on behalf of the whole country actually wanted to? They wanted very basic things, they wanted the most basic things that belonged to every man, they wanted life, freedom, the right to remember, the right to be touched by no one's happy youth on the Danube or little Ada, the right to live in their own diversity, the right to work, all of it was a big Serb occupation boot trying to destroy. Vukovar is probably the only city in Europe that, after World War II, has felt such suffering and the bestiality of someone's hatred and we have no match for it. Of course, he shares with many of our cities and places the grief and distress of the victim, as well as with Srebrenica, which is a symbol of his kind, but there is no city that has been so crushed as Vukovar, only those who have trampled him forgot that the city does not make buildings no matter where life is created, but people, and these people have survived with all those who have died and as long as those who have survived and wherever they were Vukovar lives. Now, what could we have done? Did they, their desires, and their desires that someone wanted to take from them properly recognize and reminisce, or is in fact this opportunity to politicize our own conscience for inaction for more than 20 years?? The Republic of Croatia defended itself and defended itself in two ways. One is military redistribution, and the other is peaceful reintegration. We can be proud of each other because we rejected the idea of hate, the idea of war, the idea of death, and we wanted to celebrate the idea of peace, the idea of life. Because Vukovar, along with the entire eastern Podunavlje, so Baranja and Western Srijem, was freed in a peaceful way, we showed something that we can all be proud of and it should be incorporated into the concept, so the idea of life, the culture of life, the culture of peace. Yes, all places that were places of death should be marked with dignity and dignity and allow all who wish to honor and drink to do so in orderly, clearly marked and of course, informably equipped places. That when they get there, they know where they came and what happened. But also, we cannot and must not only think of ourselves and those who do not know, but also those who have stayed there and who live there. Did we move one body or institution of the state administration to Vukovar by this law? To be there, that the Vukovars know it's not just the state of Zagreb. What have we done to make their quality of life better? We're not much, we can talk one way or the other, ruling or the opposition can do whatever the Equilibrists want right now, but we haven't done much. The very fact that in the last five years, 5 thousand people have left Vukovar has actually been defeated. I know it's like that in a lot of other places. But it was our duty that Vukovar and the places of such a type be the last places people will leave, not the first. What have we done to bring back Vukovar, at least to those who live there and who grow up, who want to stay in it and who think whether to leave or stay, to decide to stay anyway? The last time I mentioned it, we could start a university in Vukovar, a campus, make it a city of education, youth, happiness, joy. We could turn Vukovar into a festival town and stronger than it is now. These little festivals that are being held, they are points on the time line of the year that take too long. Culture and art are the joy of life. We could and should because Vukovar himself was, among other things, the most beautiful baroque city. It's been a meeting place of different civilizations since the 13th century, a city inhabited by visitors, guests, as it was written in the Charter of Herzek Coloman. Strangers who loved him and others. All those who wanted to be there had a frame and left a strong seal. I suggest you, next time you go to Vukovar, go to the City Museum in Vukovar. View this history line that is phenomenally shown. Learn something about this Vukovar and the Vukovars in the last 1,000 years or more and you will surely respect it and understand it better. And that part of the collection of a museum that speaks of his death, of an attempt to kill him, and actually managed to wound him, but there those wounds healed thanks to the living who would not allow themselves to be forgotten dead. But also, in Vukovar, old cemetery needs to be restored. It's a shame there's a cemetery in the city center where the grave marks, the records, were taken out. Every house that witnessed life and culture needs to be restored, brought back the soul, which someone wanted out, driven out, and I don't think it worked. Now the question is whether we're going to help or not, putting on a table proposals that will divide us and share us. Or those who will actually work in us, humanity, strong enough for those who remain living in Vukovar and who will only be born in it to be proud of where they are. But not only that, but also for the benefit of staying there. I know he's burdening himself, the story of the missing, the unscathed, the ones he's wanted for, unfortunately after every war, there are those. There are also those who never find themselves because war is the greatest evil. And Vukovar is just proof of that, and I know he's burdening himself with the fact that there are many who can be threatened with the fact that they've done something without being held responsible for it, some evil. But we also need to know that 110 judicial verdicts have been made for crimes committed in that part of Croatia in 23 large court proceedings. At one point, the point will come when there will be no more material evidence, no more living, and we must be prepared to do so because history will go down in history, past, the future will already turn into the past. It is our job to prevent this number of 5,000 who have left in the last five years from growing. To give this Vukovar, our city, to the city of each of us who are full of hearts and who are compassionate of these sufferings a better opportunity to live than elsewhere. This should have been applied equally then and in all the war-related areas because they were all demographically devastation. Now they're still down, that's the part and that side of Croatia that shows what our debt really is. And there's still ruins in Vukovar itself. We regret that you did not accept suggestions and that you did not spread wings on this subject but only narrowed down and exclusively that only the ruling coalition would vote for this law without finding a way to build cooperation, understanding, and then consensus with the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186775	The next club of representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Nenad Stazic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186776	Thank you, dear Vice President. Vukovar has its own law, which is the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar since 8 May 2001, means at the time of Prime Minister Racan's government. What is this concrete and very clear law? It lays down encouraging measures for the rapid restoration and development of the city of Vukovar and the removal of the consequences of the destruction of buildings and other consequences resulting from the Homeland War. The reconstruction and development of the town of Vukovar are of interest to the Republic of Croatia. And then there are detailed measures for the reconstruction and development of the city of Vukovar, and they refer to exactly 10 points. 1st war destroyed or damaged buildings, business and housing, infrastructure and other, demining, return of exilers and refugees. I'm going to stop at this third point a little bit. It's all done. The war-broken and damaged buildings have been repaired, the city of Vukovar today looks beautiful, all the buildings are new, except for the Water Tower, there you still haven't been able to agree how much to take, demining done, exiles and refugees have returned, but only in the term of this government have 4,000 gone out of town to their new persecution. This time, they are not refugees and exiles because of the actions of the aggressors, but because of the government that was unable to provide them with conditions for them to stay in the city and live happily in the city. They experienced their other persecution. We should talk about this, and we should solve this problem. Furthermore, employment and the creation of new jobs, the introduction of information technologies in all areas of the economy, the social activities of the state administration and local self-government, technical technological modernisation, education, entrepreneurship development, prevention of environmental incidents, etc. The law also provides for the establishment of funds and funds to finance reconstruction, the funds come from capital contributions from the state budget from loans, donations and other sources. The Council for the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar and the Fund is established, so the fund is based in Vukovar, and the funds for the reconstruction and development of the city of Vukovar are available to this fund and for their work this fund corresponds to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Assembly. The law encourages the establishment and development of crafts, cooperatives, small and medium-sized companies. Students residing in the city of Vukovar have the right to grant a scholarship, taxpayers are exempt from paying taxes on profits up to the day of admission of the Republic of Croatia into the EU because later these rules will no longer allow it. Now we have this law, it doesn't require any means, it doesn't foresee any means. So what's some law, what good is that law if it doesn't cost anything, then it's a clean declaration? What's Vukovar going to get? Here, for example. in Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4. says "a special country petite within the meaning of this law is a special respect for the dead and missing Croatian defenders of the Homeland War", and then the area is determined in Article 4. 5. ‘the area of the special country petticoat referred to in Article 1(1). The first law includes the area of the city of Vukovar and the settlement of Bogdanovci and the Municipality of Bogdanovci", okay. What about Pakraca, what about Skabrnj, what about Nadina, what about Slavonski Brod, what about all the other places? You know the one whose parents were killed in Nadina, so he belongs to Nadine as a special pie. To him who was killed in Skabrnj, the Shkabrnja is the place of a special pite. Well, it can't be reduced to just one city. Drinks can't be determined by law. Drinking or not exists, but for Vukovar, there's definitely a drink, and now that we're passing the law, we're making people feel a drink, so we're reducing that pie. I don't think there's a man in Croatia, but also in the whole world who doesn't feel the piety to the loss of Vukovar and no law should prescribe it. So this law won't bring anything. Will tomorrow, when we pass this Vukovar law, live better, will someone get a higher salary, someone will get a new job? Nothing, pure declaration, empty text. So you're making a mausoleum from Vukovar, you're making a tomb, and you're not helping a city that's deeply divided. There, Croatian children go to Croatian schools and kindergartens, Serbian children go to Serbian schools and kindergartens, there no one hangs out, no one comes there. It's a town to leave, to leave. This law is a curtain, it's a squid ink that needs to darken space and hide the truth about Vukovar that hasn't been told yet. For example. We still don't know why Marines had a break-in against Vukovar, and that breakthrough was supposed to secure the corridor to get the children and wounded out. I don't know, why was that done? It is said to be done to make Vukovar more injured and to speed up Croatia's recognition. But the fact is, the breach's been severed. That's the truth we need to know. Without that truth, any law is stupid to pass. Santakovic Hawk may testify to that. Why did they beat him up? The commander of the Vukovar defense beat up right after the war. So who beat him up? HDZ authorities. Why? Because he wanted to tell the truth. I mean, he, uh, why they beat him up, he never dared say, 'cause I guess they'd beat him up again and shut up till today. He's, uh, got a recording, phone call from President Tudjman asking for help, send it, no weapons, no ammunition, nothing to defend. President Tudjman tells him to send a fax. But, Mr. President, we don't have college here, so we don't have electricity, so we're fighting for a naked life here. And then nothing. It's the truth about Vukovar. So why didn't you have a drink then for Santakovic? Fred Matic, who says, so I didn't get so hurt in those Chetnik camps I went through that I got killed by the tent boy. So why didn't those tentacles to that defender, the hero of Vukovar, feel the piteous? Glavasevic wrote in his reports, accusing the Parliament, the then government, the president of the Republic and telling them, you betrayed Vukovar. You betrayed those people who died there. You're warm, they freeze. You're fed up, and they're hungry and you've made it impossible to break through the Marines. And then his son was insulted by the same tentkeepers for a year and attacked. It's a pacifier. You know why, because he's been successful, he's been educated, he speaks several languages, the lecturer's in college, everything they're not and they'll never be so hateful. It's about cynicism, the hypocrisis, the fake pie you're offering us here. Look, I think it would be a lot smarter if a university campus were set up in Vukovar. An international centre for peace studies so that the tablets there are not only Latin and Cyrillic but also Hebrew - language tablets and Japanese letters. I don't know a city with a law like this. Volgograd, then Stalingrad, there the Russians lost 750 thousand soldiers and another 40,000 civilians. And the Germans, Romania, Italians and Croats, the Ustashas who attacked the city in the fascist coalition, had 740 thousand dead and wounded and 110 thousand captured. Dresden was destroyed to the ground, 250 thousand dead, it's the most bombed city in II. Holy shit. The war, and there was no military goal, there was neither the military industry nor there was an army. It was pure retribution, so if any city deserved to be a piteous place, then I guess that's Dresden, no matter what he was on the fascist side, but his residents weren't. Now, Hiroshima is interesting. It was declared a peace town monument, a peace town. She had 200 thousand dead in the fall of an atomic bomb, and the mayor is giving a speech on the anniversary of the bomb drop called the Declaration of Peace. That would make sense. The study of peace, the study of the horrors of war, that there come young people from all over the world, to realize that war brings disaster not only to the defeated, but also to the winners because they too suffer. Our future is at peace, not in a constant, constant return to war. Read the book, the excellent book of Professors. Jovica Rat and myth, you'll find out a lot. It's a beautiful book, but we care for the victim's cult, it's our daily misery, the Croats as an eternal sacrifice throughout history. Always everywhere. Croatia should be a modern open country, a country that attracts, not a country to escape from. But expect HDZ to create such a Croatia, indeed, but it would really be too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186777	Did you raise your hand for the break? Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186778	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Bridge Club regarding the law on the special pitet of the city of Vukovar. I don't think this law solves a key problem, it's a problem that Vukovar, we must never forget the victim of Vukovar. To forgive is human, but we can't forget. This law does not solve a key problem, and this problem that Cyrillic plates in Vukovar are to be a triumph of crime, inhumanity, hatred, large-serb politics along with the then-JNA star of the five-way that it has made with the Chetnic features of the greatest crimes. And this law doesn't solve it. And no one has the right to touch and compare the victim of Vukovar with I don't know which cities were listed because Vukovar didn't attack and Croats didn't attack anyone. They didn't deserve that retaliation from the jubilee at the time, and neither did the Serbians who teamed up. The Croats have only sought their freedom and we have no right to forget Vukovar. And Cyrillic plates, Cyrillic is not a problem, but Cyrillic plates in Vukovar are a triumph of crime, bloodlocks who walk freely because Croatian bodies of persecution do nothing to condemn these people. We haven't found any dead bones yet. To make fun of these victims, it was in a way to compare it to any other cities. And this pamphlet of the law. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Vukovar Never forget, and Cyrillic plates in Vukovar are the expression of a triumph of crime. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186779	Then we'll continue to work at 11 and 11. It's 11:01 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186780	11.11 passed. We're moving on with the representatives' clubs. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11:11 A.M.]] Mr. Ivica Misic will speak in front of the Party of Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club. Here you go, Mr. Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186781	Thank you, Vice President. Respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. To talk about Vukovar today as a Vukovar special piety about a city that was once an example of beauty and economic development. Today we talk about Vukovar, not the pre-war population in Vukovar, before the war in Vukovar there were 47.2% of Croats, 32% of Serbs and 21% of other Hungarians, Czechs, Russians. Vukovar as an industrial centre in the former state was one of the perhaps free to say one of the most developed cities in Croatia. By coming to the 1990s and the beginning of the war in Vukovar, HDZ won the elections, however, had no influence at the time in the Vukovar Municipality decision, then they were mostly Serbs and they did not accept then the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Imagine not most in the city, run the city, managed the whole city, not to say that they were all 90% directors of Borov and all the other institutions that worked in Vukovar at the time. Since the Serbs did not accept the Constitution coming we know from barricades of Serbs with Chetniks of the South Army of the JNA, the Arkans are being possessed by Vukovar. About 1600 tanks went to Vukovar, about 80,000 Serbian Yugoslav people's armies attacked from all sides and turned the city into Dresden into II. World War I, just a cemetery of the whole city. You must know when we talk about it when it comes to Vukovar as many people died in Vukovar, 3,210 Croats died, 18,000 were wounded, 86 children were killed in Vukovar, now imagine 86 children, 54 children less than 10 years old. That's what you keep quiet about, sometimes you talk about somewhere, but no one's said anything about this assembly that way. By listening to my colleague Balic, I congratulate her on a speech that she then spoke in front of me as the first one, she is alone here a girl, probably a young girl without both parents in Vukovar and then colleagues and colleagues, colleagues here mentioned hate. Is there hatred, how co-existence can be made with Serbs? Of course there is, unfortunately, of course, sad but there is. Why is there hate? Of course not all Serbs are to blame for this occupation of Vukovar, we cannot collectively condemn it, but the authorities of the Serbian, Serbian parties in Croatia, Serbia as a state had to apologize sincerely for all the crimes it has committed. Never to this day have they done it with true honesty, that hate ceases, that there is no hatred. You're killing my parents and you're still looking for a Cyrillic in Vukovar and on a violent condition, we're not a democratic people, we're not democratic parties, we're Ustashas like a colleague just said when the Ustashas attacked Russia. We didn't remove the Chetnik monuments, we didn't condemn the five-pointer. Why? That's what I'm asking myself. Why isn't that condemned after 30 years? Imagine a Chetnic monument in Borovo Selo, there those people who killed these 86 children 3,000 people and more were killed and they have the courage to put up that monument. So please tell me what would have happened to someone in the former Yugoslavia if they had put in some Ustasha monument. This would no longer be alive or would end up on a naked island, of course, with the baggers and other threats and everything else. I believe that even if it were okay at the time and it should not be favored, but gentlemen of the five-point, Chetnic monuments today being in Croatia is a disgrace. It's the biggest shame of all the governments that have been, what this government has done I thank you it's taken a long time, but in us it's a process of Waldo that it takes 100 years to write some things, that in our textbooks children still don't learn complete history. What was going on, why? Today we're talking about.../incomprehensible/... we say hate, I'll repeat, of course it's not nice to hate, it's not nice not to love someone it's always nice to live in love. How to live in love when even today individuals in Vukovar and in Borovo Selo, we see what portals the Chetnik songs sing on. They walk around Croatia, they have freedom in Croatia and then they say we are still at risk. Yesterday I spoke a little about Bosnia where it will take away the land from the Croats in the Serbian Republic. As a man I've never dealt with politics before, today I am here, I want to say what I think, there is no influence on me any political party, I support here in this case HDZ I gave my hand, I think that some things are started, of course not enough. That's what you should be working on. He says the buildings are fixed, Stazic, the refugees are back, refugees are gone, we wonder if the buildings are doing something, why the refugees are gone. Not all economic problems, the problem is gentlemen when I come to Vukovar alone who I lived downstairs, who I've been listening to, who I've seen this whole war, is the problem that you, Vukovar, is the whole cemetery. Wherever you turn you saw a dead man, I have this feeling whenever I come to Vukovar just looking and seeing, that picture of you going out, entering a Chetnik in Vukovar with pride we'll slaughter the Croats. I don't know what more to say, in Vukovar about 400 to 600 tanks were destroyed, Slavonia gentlemen was destroyed, the future of the entire Slavonia was determined by Vukovar. Today, villages in Slavonia are half empty. We haven't been able to make one railroad to Vinkovci in 30 years. Why is that? We're all asking ourselves a question. Some things in this country haven't been put together in 27-8 years. I understand war, and I understand and later, people come when you can't manage exactly as we all think, so so do I, but the time has come for one, I would say one peace, one stabilisation, here's the state is in surplus, I think we're standing solid, we should just keep working, respect, and not give any more theft. And Vukovar will remain one big wound to all of us who live in Croatia, who live in Croatia, who love this Croatia, who respects minorities, of course there were Serbs who defended Croatia, but very little. I thank them of course, there can't be just one Serb leader all the time for 30 years, and if they vote for it, the truth. But gentlemen you are Serbs and all others living in this country must respect the Constitution of the Croatian State, respect its provisions, respect all the laws that touch them and their lives in our country. This is the state of the Croatian people, of course, and of all the peoples in it. With all due respect, I want to say this, and let's not go around, let's not pursue things that may not be good, but when there's a fallout in Croatia, we need to think about it, see in what context why it happened and why. I would like that in this country to live well, that our people, that the day when Vukovar is concerned, when those great columns of people from all over Croatia honor, when it comes with grief, the memory of what happened, when individuals don't even want to admit it and come, when someone goes to Serbia and there celebrates the Storm or something like that, we know who spiced up why the Storm happened, it didn't because the Croats wanted it, but because the Croats had to, free their part of the country. President Tudjman invited them to stay, not to go, there was a lot of talk, they didn't want it, they didn't accept it, and even today Seselj, who is sitting in Belgrade and Vukic, who was walking on Croatia towards the Chetnik. Of course, they try their democratic way today under a questionnaire, but they've been elected in their own country, I can't... but it's embarrassing for such people to be elected in a country like Serbia. And today I am looking at BiH and the Serbian Republic the same behavior Dodig has its own behavior as the sheriff where he has driven 250,000 Croats, not only him but the Serbs from BiH, where our people today suffer from persecution, who are at the end of 30 years more refugees, where they cannot return to their part of the world, where I have already talked about it. Therefore, if we want co-existence, we must condemn all crimes and clearly Serbia and Serbs must sincerely repent of what they have done to the Croatian people. When all this is done then hate will go away, I think that in the Croatian people there is no food because we are so wide, we are so good. When I think of an ambassador from Canada who said, I admire you Croats how characterizing you are and how forgiving you can be. That probably a little of the people in the world could do it, but here's what Croatians should be commended for. However, do not let anyone try to humiliate us again in this Croatian state. So keep in mind what is said and that the state of Croatia is the state of Croatia as well as what was the other day with the president, I think that the Constitution that we can do this and I didn't like it, but the Constitution I respect, the president wants to do so, but every little thing needs to be done and know what the rules are and that not everyone can change them however they want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186782	The Club of Representatives HSU-SNAGA-Independent Representatives and New Politics will now take place, first Mr. Sagar and then Mr. Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186783	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This law could call it limitedly very ambitious. In fact, by reading this law there are no clear reasons, at least I haven't found clear reasons why this law would say so in the first place, so I'm going to support this law. But there are also no clear reasons why I should say this law will not be supported. Namely, there are things about it we'll agree on, there are things, there are actually terms that are hard to describe words like love, sadness, so here's what we want about this piety law. In the dictionary, we find an explanation that this is deep respect, so it falls within the domain of feeling, what a person feels, what he experiences, and it is difficult to define, it is difficult to describe words. And in that sense, I don't think it's even the intensity of this law that he prescribes people's feelings because this is how people felt about grief, love, drinking, and it's not the intensity of the law. The law here went to prescribe, according to my deep belief that these are places, which are ways, which are protocols to mark the victim of Vukovar, the symbol of Vukovar and not only Vukovar, this law took a slightly wider framework to extend the thought that it was therefore and put here there were questions why the name of homeland pitette was inserted, to extend to all defenders therefore to the entire Republic. In that sense, I welcome it. As far as the motives of this law are concerned, it is in Art. 1. st.2. Defined "Vukovar is declared the place of a special homeland pitet because it plays a particularly important role in Croatian history and the establishment of an independent, independent, sovereign and democratic state and represents a symbol of resistance, sacrifice of victory and community, or defence of the state sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War", that is, the motive of how I read it. What is the purpose of this law? "This law defines Vukovar as a special homeland petite" which I said earlier as a broader meaning "defined its meaning and status with the aim of preserving the permanent memory and memory of the victim of Vukovar in the Homeland War and the building of peace and fostering its social development with an emphasis on demographic, economic, cultural and educational development". That's why at first I said he was very ambitious. So read these words again and encourages its social development with an emphasis on demographic, economic, cultural and educational development. Everything that says in this law I have no objection, but such ambitious goals are not read out of this law. This does not mean that this law should not be supported, I said at first I do not see why I would not support it, and on the other hand, on the key issue of what he will receive, I do not know, how much he will actually bring the benefits, so to speak, if we can talk about the Benefit Pitt Act in terms of returning peace to Vukovar, returning life, returning everything that ultimately led to the defenders of Vukovar giving their lives. Because someone here said well, they fought for peace, they fought for what they belonged to, which belongs to us as our people's civilizational achievements, they defended their hearths, their dwelling places, and in that sense it's not a problem. But let me now, and that's what I said in the replica, let me make a concrete proposal that we're going to put into amendment. So in art. 21. where the appointment and formation of the council is defined, it would certainly be good to propose representatives of the Croatian Community of Countys, Croatian Association of municipalities and the Association of Cities to the Council. What's that about? So precisely because of these broader goals that this law has set before it because, when we have already said that the concept of homeland pitet has been classified and thus the scope of this reach of law for the entire Republic, and even outside, outside the Republic of Croatia, all those who defended Vukovar, did not defend Vukovar alone, so people from all areas of the Republic, then it would be good to include both municipalities and cities from all over the Republic, because and the marking of events themselves, the marking in these 3 days in certain places would certainly involve all cities and municipalities. But if we look at the goals that are beyond that marking, so these goals that are ambitious, which are set, so here's the development, economic development of Vukovar, then we can certainly include all the cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia who can make their contribution to some of their initiatives, some of them, and some of them are directed towards the city of Vukovar because and in law, changes to the Law on Units of Local Self-Government are included in that and more, one or more units of local self-government can, for example. have a joint, joint development agency, common bodies that... in development. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a good, good example of why a successful city from Dalmatia would not, would not develop or establish such cooperation with, with Vukovar and the Municipality of Bogdanovci mentioned in this law because it is quite clear that this law crosses these frameworks. And in this sense, representatives of not, as the Croatian community of counties, Croatian association of municipalities and associations of cities should be included, the presentation would be one representative or three representatives. We, colleague Orepic and I will give the amendment, and then, and here we propose to the government that she decide whether it will be one or more representatives. I don't think this amendment is going to hurt this law, though it will, that this one, that it will, that it will help him achieve the goals, and that is ultimately, in Article. 26. where funds are spoken of and it writes quite clearly that funds for the implementation of this law are provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia at the position of the ministry, and the budget of units of local and regional self-government, according to this article, it does not seem to me that this applies only to the Municipality of Bogdanovci and the city of Vukovar but also to other units of local self-government, and to art. 23. It is quite clear, here is the Council of 3rd, that it can propose to the Government of Economic, Demographic, Cultural, Educational, Scientific and Other Measures on the Development of Areas of Art. The 5th of this law. The Council therefore examines drafts of the law, as well as other regulations and acts, or examines the contents and programmes, processes and activities relating to the area referred to in Article 5. The 5th of this law. So when we talk about laws then the laws in the field of local self-government units are quite clear that the law relating to the Mikleush municipality will also refer to the Bogdanovci municipality. In that sense, I should say once more to include, I see no reason to reject such an amendment by the distinguished State Secretary. He'll continue his colleague, Orepic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186784	Here you go, Mr. Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186785	The Honorable Chairman, ma'am. State secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague, Sagar, told us about our club's concrete contribution to the development or improvement of this law, so I'm not going to repeat myself. He'd look back on all of this in one other way. So we're talking about the Vukovar Law by the place of a special country petite. Homeland war is based on the statehood of the Republic of Croatia, and Vukovar as such is a special place for all of us who were part of that time, but it should be and should become part of the pitet of all generations to come. In order for this and this to be the case, we should not have ruled on such laws, we should have respected a whole series of constructive proposals that have come, come out of opposition and done no harm to the whole spirit and interest of this law. Each state is established as well as it is arranged, as much as its areas are governed by the consensus of all the people who live in it. And this law as small as it looks is precisely one of those laws that should be the consequence of the consensus, which would point to the constitutionality of the Croatian state. There's a whole series of unspeakable truths about home war, the truths that are being hidden, that are not yet being told, which some say is not even the time, but we have to be aware that the truth is the only prerequisite for every pitet, and without the truth of it, there isn't, nor will be. Who, why and how he hides the truth is also the truth about which, for which to fight and to be said, but two words of the homeland war are marked, and these are the victims and these are victory and that is the truth, and that is the truth that can gather this entire tall home and the total citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The homeland is a symbol of victory and it is undeniable, the RH as it is imperfect, which is developing, which will develop and which will come, what is said, which will stand on its feet and move, will come. Al is true and 2717 killed, 3200 campers, 22,000 exiled in Vukovar, in a place, in this area, in this area, in this area, which we want today to side with to become a place of special pite. It is a sacrifice that must not be forgotten, but it is a sacrifice which is and which should be based on a culture of memories of the Homeland War. The Homeland War, which is based on statehood, to a Homeland War that must not be a source of any hatred. This sounds like demagogy, but that's exactly what it sounds like. The Homeland War brought peace, it brought victory. But also this sacrifice should be and is, as many politicians try politically to use this topic and be larger Croats or larger, I don't know, Serbs or I don't know what they are. This victim in Vukovar is based on a culture of life colored by a piety to the victim, number one. Which is colored with pride of victory, that's number two. Or number one, whatever you want, but which is colored by the perseverance to reveal the truth and many other truths that have not been revealed. The Homeland War is based on that, and the victim of Vukovar is, in particular, emphasising this matter, in the basis of the endurance of revealing every truth in the Homeland War. And the victim of Vukovar is based on the tolerance of the culture of life in the tolerance of all people of goodwill. This is exactly the kind of culture of life that's why I'm going to support this law that's not perfect. But it can also be much better, but it is a good start, it is a good start on the way to Vukovar, but Croatia also becomes a place of life, becoming a place of hope and becoming a place of prosperity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186786	Thank you, too. Now it's on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club to speak to Mr Boris Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186787	Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today he'd be making his own thoughts about this law. Your thoughts, your club thinking. This is one sensitive law. For the first time, we've actually passed the law that one place, one city, is declared a place of special piety. When it comes to piety, I mean feeling, personal morality, and even social responsibility that should exist to the victim. Drinking and respecting the victim should be our first priority. What kind of people would we actually be if we didn't have a sense of piety to the victim and I mean, I don't think we can prescribe it by law. Drinking to the victim should feel when you get to the site, that's something you feel in your stomach. We can't prescribe that someone will feel it or that they won't feel it. We've shown respect for the victim and we'll show respect for the future. What doesn't say in the law, what I think is missing in the law, and why the law isn't necessary, which is the effort of all of us here in the hall, and beyond, in society, is the effort of dialogue, in international dialogue. To co-existence, to reconciliation, to finding the missing, to try to find justice. Because it's not easy to find justice after all these years. ... We must also work on Cyrillic, to be normal, to be generally accepted, not to create hatred and hostility to the letter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That we do not create new enmities because the Cyrillic symbolizes Serbs and Croatia and says that the Cyrillic is undesirable is actually to say that Serbs are unwanted, and we must not forget that one third of the citizens of the city of Vukovar are citizens of Serbian nationality and they are part of that city and they live in the town of Vukovar. We, when I say to me, think of my club and my party, have proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to open the debate, to give the initiative to launch activities on establishing a foundation for promoting dialogue and cooperation. Unfortunately, we have not moved from that very proposal, and that is what is needed and that is what I consider necessary for the city of Vukovar. We have recently passed the Law of Holidays, which was declared the Day of Remembrance of the victims of the Homeland War and the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Vukovar and Skabrnja. Isn't that enough? More and more of that leads to the danger of cementing life in the city. To make a living city a monument that will live only for the days of sacrifice. We only focus on the law four days a year, and what about the rest of us over 361 days? Isn't Vukovar more than a victim today? Are we just going to watch the town of Vukovar through the prism of the victim? Isn't the city of Vukovar and the city of life? Wasn't it still today a multiethnic city, a multicultural city, a multiconfessional city? The law does not mention peaceful reintegration. What about peaceful reintegration? Peaceful reintegration is not mentioned today, it's like an unwanted child. With peaceful reintegration, we should celebrate peace and victory of peace. But not only is it not mentioned and that it treats the peaceful reintegration of our society as if it were an unwanted child, but we are trying to undo all the results of peaceful reintegration. Let's get back to the pie. Like I said, I think it's a feeling, a moral feeling that all people should have toward the victim if we're human. If someone were to propose a law today in which, for example, Jasenovac would be declared a place of special piety would be fiercely opposed. Am I supposed to be prescribed by law to have a drink for Jasenovac? If I don't have the respect for myself when I come to some site, if I don't have the respect when I come to Ovcara, no law will give me that. No law will prescribe the honesty I will feel, and the pitetus should have not only towards Vukovar, not towards Jasenovac, but towards all the sites of both the past war and World War II. One of the most feared sites of World War II is the Glyna Orthodox Church. In the church itself and its surroundings, about a thousand people were killed, the church was burned, at the place of the church, after World War II a memorial home was built and a memorial of the tablet was placed as a memory, as a feature of this terrible crime. There's no mention of home today, there's no mention of a mark, there's nothing that reminds us there's been a terrible crime. Not only that, but there were attempts to ban the gathering of people at home, so the local government wanted to pass a general act banning the memorial and gathering to mark this terrible crime. Isn't that terrible? We have been asking for years to return the name of the memorial home, for years we have been asking for the memory of the record to be returned so that they can mark the scene of the crime. Isn't that the place to drink? Shouldn't every single one of us who comes in there know what happened there and feel a drink to the victims who were killed there? And that's why we don't need the law, we just need the mark and respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186788	Now, we move on to individual debates and Mr. Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186789	Thank you very much. The Honorable Defense Ministers with your associates, you weren't here, but I spoke on behalf of the club, but I also spoke in the first reading in essence of what we agree that Vukovar was the victim, Vukovar was basically a hero city, a hero city and a cornerstone in the defence of the Republic of Homeland War. And about Vukovar when we talk, then of course we'll talk about feelings and piety. And that's what Vukovar needs to be treated like. The proposed law on the place, declaring Vukovar a place of special homeland pitet, does not essentially solve what is crucial, and the key problem has arisen, as I spoke on behalf of the club, 2013. For this reason, the petition for the referendum, i.e. The procedure for the referendum was launched where the problem was written, meaning the problem with setting Cyrillic plates because simply when we talk about Cyrillic plates in Vukovar, then we are not talking about Cyrillic, minority rights, and that the Republic of Croatia has a constitutional law on national minorities where we have given all rights and there is no problem with bilingual panels in many areas. But if we're bringing a place of special pie, Homeland, you've added homeland, which is narrowing down the way you've been. Then we know that when the petition was launched, which is why certain people were tried, especially Marijan Zivkovic, who had experienced numerous inconveniences, regardless of what he had lost two sons, where at one point even a judge told him that he was grieving about his sons in loneliness, this Cyrillic is not a question of Cyrillic as a letter, here is a question that we do not resolve by this law that criminals are large-scale Serb bloodsuckers essentially semi-trium, criminals who slaughtered and burned people just what other nationalities are and in this large-serb emulsion and haracre together, meaning the JNAs led by Sljivancan and the other Chets simply made that city so many crimes that we all know and we are aware that they are indescribable. Unfortunately, this law does not solve this key problem. This problem if we're already passing some kind of special law, special, what is the specificity of this law? Is the specificity of this law what will in fact still be bilingual panels being able to be placed in Vukovar, and they are the basic problem? When we talk about national minorities, I will point out in every speech, that the people of the Serb national minorities made a great contribution to the Homeland War, 9000 of them participated in all HV, HOS, MUP, volunteer troops and the tribune, and emphasized it, many gave their lives. However, if we do not solve a key problem, if we set an example in this proposal, we state areas that will be marked and that have been marked so far. We cite the areas of this day, these four days that are marked, in which they are marked, on what occasions, means those 4 days, but Vukovar is the place of a special pite, because we must not forget, we must not forget Vukovar. Whether the Croats, that we forgive, forgive, we can, but we must not forget. In Vukovar there is Cyrillic, plates are Cyrillic triumphs of the Velco-Serb criminals, triumphs. And by this law, if you can answer the Ministers or anyone else, is this bilinguality problem solved by Cyrillic plates? I would have no problem with the people of the Serb national minority, living with these people, I have no personal problem. In fact, these people are extremely honorable, honest, patriotic, giving a new value. I live with these people in the same village. I personally don't. And I will always emphasize their values, and yet Vukovar is something else. Vukovar is a city where war criminals walk today who either under a five-point star or under a cocardine slaughtered, burned, raped. I am talking about the future, and I am what the prime minister said he and the European Commission will solve, and he has not decided to have special advantages both the economic and economic and development city of Vukovar, they are not. But the key issue here is the issue that triggered the 2013 referendum initiative, I was the co-ordinator in the Cetina region, then 15,000 signatures were collected in the Cetina region alone, and in the Republic of Croatia 65,000 signatures, and then the Constitutional Court said what is here in Article 3 was prescribed and it was also written in the referendum initiative, but this Article 8 of the Constitutional Law on National Minorities because the Constitutional Court said what it should have said could be said to members of.../incomprehensible/... amendments to that law. Therefore, this law does not solve the problem. This law does not resolve as many as 17 members of the council of that body, which is listed here who will be all but 3 Croatian defenders, only 3, are only 3 Croatian defenders of 17 of the Vukovars. And in marking the meanings, the flags are also listed how the protocol will go, and if foreign delegations come, will they, for example, come when a foreign delegation comes. To come now, the President of the Republic does not apologize, that he comes to apologize to her ok, Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, that the flag will stand there at the place of the special pite. A man who mocks Croatian citizens, who mocked and visited Croatian citizens. So, Vukovar must not be forgotten, we can forgive. In Vukovar, there is no Cyrillic problem, but in Vukovar, the plates are Cyrillic triumphs of large-serb Chetnic crimes. It's a triumph. This law does not solve it, ladies and gentlemen, but prolongs the problems that have arisen in the case of Mr. Marijan Zivkovic and similar cases. If you were going to solve this, then you could have settled Vukovar in the law amending the Law on the Constitution on National Minorities, where you could have put Vukovar in Article 12, which provides for bilingualism, excluded. And that's how you go about passing a law like this. I'm sorry to talk about Vukovar in this way, but I have to have a simple commitment to the people who went from my neighborhood to Vukovar by Alcic Andrija, the edge of Poljak Sokol, who was the commander of the Fair, my neighboring municipalities of Derek, because of those, because of the wormhole that was found these days, because of the people who defended Vukovar from all over the Republic. Ministers of this law of speciality, so if it is a speciality, and the key problem is bilingual panels, tell me ministers whether they are solving bilingual ones, whether Cyrillic plates will be placed, thereby triumphing, about Vukovar I'm talking about, I'm not talking about the rest of the Republic, these crimes will be triumphed by criminals, bloodsuckers, who are still walking free because of the unhappiness of the state institutions that should be dealing with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186790	Mr. Stazic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186791	You say it's not a Cyrillic problem, the problem is Cyrillic plates. It would look like someone in America is capable, the Arabs have carried out an attack on twins, the use of Arabic numbers is prohibited, and Roman numbers must be used on the streets of buildings, on buildings on the street. It's about that kind of craftsmanship. Cyrillic, if you did not know the Croatian letter, was invented by Kliment Ohridski in the 9th century by a student of the Thessaloniki brothers. Some of the biggest and most important Croatian monuments are written on Cyrillic, Humačka plate, Charter of Kulina Bana 1189, all the texts of the Polish Republic from the 15th to the 17th century, the most famous Polish Statute. Therefore, speaking in this way means showing your own but complete ignorance. What you learn in elementary school. Well, I don't know how they couldn't teach you that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186792	Answer Mr. Stazic, and don't forgive Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186793	So I will agree with you that Cyrillic is not a problem and that Cyrillic has been used in Croatian letters, but I am talking about criminals who came to Vukovar with Cyrillic inscriptions, slaughtered and burned, and that would really be Vukovar. I'm talking about a speciality in Vukovar with Cyrillic plates because I see you're doing me both ignorance and this and that, but I'm proud when you're telling me if you're the person who said '45. The winners who killed and slaughtered innocent people in Bleiburg not to finish their jobs. Therefore, it absolutely makes me your doctoring nothing of such a person. The Vukovar was committed by the people who wore Cyrillic inscriptions and who slaughtered, burned and raped, and today they give up free, these are the butchers you're calling '45 to. If they hadn't done their job, they wouldn't have killed them for killing them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186794	The second line has Mr. Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186795	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, your fundamental concern that the key problem of this law is not solved, it's a question of bilingual panels. However, you yourself have responded to this even though you insist that the Proposer responds that it is in collegiate with the Constitutional Law on National Minorities. Therefore, this law cannot be referred to or be stronger than that constitutional law, therefore it is not good to ask for that answer. However, what should be reminded is that the problem arises when the SDP government is a provision of the previous law that 50% should be national minorities in order to have bilingualism reduced to 30% of the population of a particular place and then there can be seen roots why we have these consequences and talks in this way and in the Parliament today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186796	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186797	So that's why this law doesn't work out, I've been saying that we're declaring the place a special pie and we've added our country's petite in fact we've narrowed down that concept in fact this law doesn't solve the key problem. If he was going to solve a key problem, then the most appropriate constitutional law on national minorities should be amended here. I've been saying all along that this law is strictly laid down, and I don't even know what he's dealing with. What's he handling? He does not solve this problem which is a key problem, and these are the tablets that people can't accept there that these criminals are triumphant, these great-serbs who have committed huge crimes unremembered by II. World war and that's the problem. However, by this law he cannot be solved, you have now admitted that this law is exclusively a pamphlet and demagogue to be used exclusively for pre-election purposes, and I do not want to participate. Thank you very much. I want to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186798	We welcome all students and pupils of the Zagreb Industrial Construction School together. Thank you for being with us. Please give a round of applause for them. Let's move on with individual debates, Mr. Josip Djakic is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186799	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State and Associates. So here is the University of Vukovar Act, a city with a special homeland pie, and at the very beginning I would like to point out that it is not necessary to stress how important this law is. And I'm sorry that it's so unnecessary to politicize around it because those who politicize are safe and I'm sure they don't feel the pain of Vukovars and Vukovars, who will never disappear. And I really don't understand why it has to be especially explained and why this law is important. Sometimes it is necessary to do something to preserve the values of patriotism and unity, courage and sacrifice, the memory of the victims and the tragedies that occurred in the Homeland War. I feel like we're all emotionally connected to Vukovar, and this law keeps a permanent memory of the victim of Vukovar. And those who have not lived through war and horrors, I hope that they too feel and feel compassion for those who suffer, who suffer and who are wronged. And again, I will repeat, no matter what is already said about Vukovar, that Vukovar plays a special important role in Croatian history, establishing an independent, independent, sovereign and democratic Croatian state, is a symbol of resistance, a victim of community in the Homeland War. Vukovar has an extremely important symbolic position in many sights and a turning point in the history of the Croatian state, especially in the formation of a modern Croatian society, cultural and national identity and the experience and meaning of the 1991 Vukovar. For years, it exceeds both local and national levels, and I would say that it is also a European and world phenomenon of resistance and sacrifice. The Croatian people, thanks to the resistance of the werewolves as well as the cataclysmic destruction and human casualties that have not been recorded in Europe since the end of II. The World War has been recognized by Vukovar as a symbol of resistance, courage, patriotism, unity and sacrifice. Vukovar is a symbol of the young Croatian state and the struggle of the Croatian people for freedom, national independence and territorial integrity, huge Serb aggression along with JNA at Vukovar in '91. and with the help of domestic rebels in the area almost in the majority and many years of occupation of the city have left deep negative and in many respects the lasting consequences of its rich, historical and cultural heritage, as well as the consequences in the demographic picture because human injuries and losses were extremely large and extremely difficult. This law is needed in order to make the pie we express every time we come to Vukovar, when we talk about Vukovar, when we remember the victim, when we feel those days when they were killed and when heroism was first stressed that the victim of Vukovar must never be forgotten, and so this law clearly defines all the places where the injuries were, how they happened, how they were marked, how to remember them, and how never forget them. We create a legal framework for the special national status of this city, which will preserve the memory culture of Vukovar's victim and encourage activities aimed at the social development of the Vukovar area. The law defines the concept of a special homeland pitet and the areas it relates to, which is the town of Vukovar and the village of Bogdanovci, the places and periods, the days of a special homeland pitet, including the periods from 17 to 20 November, and the way of marking a special country pitet. As a special pitetary, the National Memorial Hospital in Vukovar is defined as a special pitetary where, besides health activities, there is also a memorial educational activity with the purpose of promoting the value of the Homeland War and all those who say that there are no young people, that there is no life, that there is maozoleum, there is life there in full voltage, there are frequent visits by our students from all over the Republic, I must mention that it is important that our children there are educated about what was, who was an aggressor, perhaps it is not appropriate to someone that the real truth is presented by professional and quality persons, but also the historical fact is really accessible and visible there. The same marking includes the development of educational activities and the preparation of professional educational materials with the purpose of meeting students and other visitors of Vukovar with historical facts about the Homeland War and the preservation of memory of the role of Vukovar in defence of sovereignty and the creation of the Republic of Croatia, but also the establishment of a final list of dead, missing Croatian defenders and civilians of the Vukovar area, which is also a permanent task until all those still missing are found. The public institution Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War in Vukovar also plays an important role in marking its activities as part of the educational educational visit to the town of Vukovar. The law will be set up especially amongst the resolution body i.e. The Council for Homeland Pitet, Peace and Development of 15 or 17 members appointed by the Government as one of the important objectives of the Council's work will be to address long-term property relations and the status of the site of death or the place of giving away a special homeland pitet. The Council may propose to the Government economic, demographic, cultural, educational, scientific and other measures aimed at the development of the area of specific homeland petite, as well as measures and activities of building and permanent peace conservation, and to monitor their implementation. Unlike those who say that this law is meaningless, just because there are no material financial indicators in it, I'm really amazed by such a debate of such people who, without a soul, without a heart, without emotion speak of this law. These are the same ones who say that the job was not done in '45 until the end, they are the same ones who are probably not even loved for the Republic of Croatia to be free, those are the same ones who wanted Vukovar to go through, those are the same ones who probably invited the Vinkovci to be occupied, as well as the Parish and that the enemy saboteurs get to Zagreb. That's how their presentations and discussions could have concluded today, that's when there's no common sense for Vukovar, that's how it is when there's no emotion, when there's no understanding, when there's no love for the country. Such people insensitive, heartless, who never really loved this Republic of Croatia in my opinion. This law will have positive, I'm sure, effects on the development of the Vukovar area, and I believe that all HS representatives agree that we should adopt a law like this in the community, and that it will benefit all Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186800	You, too. You have two replicas, the first replica was sought by Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186801	Here's an esteemed colleague, Djakic, I have to react somehow if I'm speaking here, so I'll also look back at what you've been making a whole series of accusations, primarily from politics, to politicize. I don't know, you've turned the subject, we've talked about the fact that the proposal that comes from the HDZ's ruling majority is the one that politicises the reality of events, past events and feelings that afterwards occurred in the city of Vukovar, contained in the law is all this. When you come to Vukovar to mark the suffering to look at what is written in the bill, you'll get it all together, it's all from a long time ago and under this almost same name, the only thing that you've done a little bit, and we're already talking about politics, then you should be the first to condemn everything that violates exactly the dignity of the Homeland War, and if someone evens the Republic of Croatia with NDH you first have to say And not how that cooperation has no alternative. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186802	Answer, Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186803	Comrade Panenic, you are one of those probably called, so you found it appropriate to replicate to me. I think the feelings and emotions that should be towards the city of Vukovar finally came into the legal frameworks so that no one would try to disrupt. And I'm just gonna say one thing, this law is certainly welcome, and it would be nice if everyone would accept it together. This isn't Styrofoam law, it's Vukovar law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186804	Thank you very much. Mr. Ronko, come in. I would beg you Mr. Boric, I've seen the injury don't point me at what I see because I have eyes, no. Of course I'll give the injury. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186805	You have injured Article 239. Rules of Procedure, you have not responded to the inappropriate throw of colleagues to Panenic, simply no matter what anyone says you can't tell your colleagues what you said to your colleague Panenic. It's just below every level of human dignity. And unfortunately, some of you here have brought a speech to a assembly that has never been here in this assembly. People have to respect and respect each other. It's the base of everything, it's the base of the culture that a man carries from home. This is how you tell anyone, not your colleagues. In the assembly, such a statement is simply a disaster. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186806	Thank you very much, time. Mr. Panenic has also raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186807	Thank you very much. And I was reacting right by the article. In 238, which is because you essentially missed only the previous insult that was on my account you would never react because it is not a problem for you, and when the chairman did not respond to that insult, then I took the responsibility and I apologize for taking over the role of the chairman, so here I responded in a way that is appropriate to the expression that my colleague Djakic also has towards me. [[Intruder: No, not 23.8]] So promote what he said before [[Thank you very much, time has passed.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186808	If I responded to every incursion here, if I responded to every incursion by warning I'd share only warnings. I'd suggest the three of you go get a cup of coffee and solve the problem. Mr. Ronko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186809	Thank you very much. When it comes to Vukovar, I'm always...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186810	I beg you nicely now, forgive me, forgive me, I now warn you to Mr. Panenic, to you, Mr. Djakic, and enough and enough, two warnings. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186812	Thank you very much. So when I talk about Vukovar and when I'm talking and when I'm gonna talk, I always talk with both heart and soul and love. So now, Vukovar, yes, drink yes, but that doesn't lead in the direction of mausoleum because I'm against it. Of course I will vote for this law, but let this law be a basis for some changes, opportunities, because I think that Vukovar as Vukovar should give more lives and more faith in justice and justice and that it should provide him with a far brighter future. I think Vukovar must be bigger, Vukovar must be better, Vukovar must be nicer. And I'm not saying that there's no life in Vukovar, there is, but there's got to be more.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186813	Thank you very much. Mr. Djakic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186814	Yes, my colleague Ronko, I'm glad you recognized that this law is necessary and that he has a purpose, that he has a feeling, that he has love, that he has a real drink and I believe that like all of us, we think a lot of times why at shops, why at coffee shops, why on trucks aren't written by Cyrillic names of these companies, these companies in the city of Vukovar, and it's potential that state institutions are. Many times this doubt has caused us to suspect that this is a purely different thing that today's colleagues wanted to potentiate, and I welcome your understanding of this law and that every law is subject to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186815	Thank you very much. Let's move on, Mr. Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186816	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Let me begin by saying something about these two amendments that I will submit to this law, and then I will comment on some discussions or views on this law. The first amendment concerns Article 24, which states that the National Drinks Council will, in cooperation with the competent authority of the State Administration for Science, Education and a series of scientific institutions, encourage scientific research and publishing with the aim of preserving research and promoting the truth about the Homeland War. I think that this amendment should also include the Ministry of Culture, since this is about works and research that are also part of the area of culture. The second amendment refers to Article 26 where, in the first paragraph of this article, it states that the Ministry of Defence is responsible for the financing of all these activities provided for by this law, but here it should, because of this amendment in this Article 26, add a second sentence which states that these activities are related to scientific research activities, publishing, preservation, research and promotion of the truth about the Homeland War are funded by the Ministry of Science and Education, as well as culture. However, it should be pointed out that it does not say or-or rather that the Ministry of Education is also on these grounds relating to Article. 26. It is necessary to participate and participate in, in financing these, what is provided for in this law. These are the two amendments that I hope the applicant will consider and accept. As for the debate, today we have heard different things about this law, on the one hand, that the law has no purpose, that none of it is particularly resolved, and then it goes to that point, so it's all defined in, in the provisions of the local administration or self-government where it's about the decision of the city of Vukovar on the piety from, which was decided in 2013, and then we're actually on that typical constituencie. Is, if it hadn't been, if it hadn't been passed, that law and provisions at national level, then it would have been said, if only at local level, the state didn't, it doesn't worry about it. On the other hand, the main observation of one part of these MPs is that there is no problem of bilingual panels. Here it is, and that is true, but those who say so themselves know that this law cannot be resolved because there is another law, an organic law on national minorities, and it is forgotten to say that the changes concerning that law or bilingual panels, the previous SDP Government has passed a provision under which the right to bilingualism has those national minorities that account for 50% or more than 50% of the population. Here, and the previous provision was, sorry to have the right to, that it reduced that provision to 30%, and it was a provision to 50%. According to the latest census of the Serb population in Vukovar, there are 34%, hence, strictly following the law, they still have the right to bilingualism. However, in the first debate on this law when it was in the first reading, I said it would be good precisely because it is a big problem, and it is not a problem as it has already been pointed out, nor a Cyrillic letter, nor the Serbs as a national minority in the Republic of Croatia, because about 9000 of them participated in the Homeland War, therefore things cannot be generalised, but it would be very good for Serbs in Vukovar and the Serbian parties there themselves to suggest that because of the piety, this party does not insist on setting bilingual, bilingual plates. I think it would be very good for co-existence and for the more coherent and development of the city and relations. As for Mr. Stazic's discussion, we've heard again a series of lies from a man who simply refers to the truth, and he himself does not want to face, the truth. Regarding the problem of preventing the alleged breakthrough of Vukovar, the extraction of children from Vukovar, it should be said that all of this is very well investigated, that the facts are known, that a number of scientific articles are written about it, that they are written about it and doctorates, therefore the facts are very simple. What Djakić, excuse me, what Stazic is saying, is, these are the fakes and lies she placed, which was placed by Opera, it is, it is, it is, it is the action of KOS to place misinformation created, an operation that began in '91. in, in September and systematically, they systematically placed these misinformations in order to bring down the defence of the Republic of Croatia against aggression on this media plan. Namely, just a few facts. It is attributed to Dedakovic that he, that he signed this letter, which was sent to HS, 15 days before Glavasevic read it, was it in, in HS, there are several versions of these letters, signed with Jastreb, unsigned, Dedakovic himself said that he did not write it, those letters, he said in '91. And, and, and later, so Glavasevic when he read it a day or two before the fall of Vukovar himself wouldn't read all the sentences in that letter because he obviously didn't agree with it. Who is the author of this letter, it can certainly be assumed, there is no name, but it is known, sources from where and from whom it comes from. I said, says Stazic, that the president told him to send a fax, and he didn't say that Dedakovic was code, with the president in Zagreb at the interview and he didn't say that transcripts of this staged editing conversation were made by KOS or in, or in, the Opera and that they were placed in this, in, in, in, in, in, in the public. What Stazic kept repeating is a fake of lies, untrue, he repeated as some of his truths obviously unprepared and unable to accept the facts of the Homeland War and the struggle for Vukovar and last time I said how much of this concise interpretation, insisting on these misinformations because Marko Babić, one of the obviously key people in the defense and who has undivided respect and dignity and fighters and all the other people, once said, when journalists asked him how that, why Vukovar fell, then he said, when anyone asked me that, when anyone asked me, it asked me to slap him and that the question was how that Vukovar could defend himself for 3 days because there was no chance of defending himself at all. So today, what we hear here today in HS is just one shame for both HS and those who say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186817	I don't understand. What are those voices? ... Mr. Shuker has a replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186818	Thank you very much. Comrade Tudjman, you have beautifully elaborated some things, however, what I wanted to comment on with you, listening today to this debate where it is said that this law does not bring anything, that nothing will be solved with it, but we are apriors against it. Doesn't that just indicate that the opposition's very mood for such a law was to be passed? Because if you're apriors against something that doesn't solve anything, it doesn't bring anything, so what's the problem? Suggest what should be changed and let's all vote for that law. Well, I guess Vukovar and pacifier to the victims of Vukovar, Skabrnje,... All over Croatia, which fell from great Serbian and Chetnic aggression, deserves us to show unity in this House. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's make a consensus. So, are we going to be on one of these laws, which the colleagues in the opposition say is that nothing is solved,... Apriori v., what? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Against the opinion and attitude of Vukovar? So who has more right to speak of Vukovar here in the assembly than Comrade Balic? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, fellow Shuker.]] So they're against hers. Feelings? [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186819	Answer, Mr. Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186820	Thank you. But, fellow Shuker, what is obvious, and this is evident from these articles that I have read, is a focus on researching the truth and promoting the Homeland War, and Vukovar and the entire Homeland War, therefore, and that is already one dimension that bounces away from all that is intended to be denied because this obligation is no longer at the level of local administration but at the level of the state and therefore this composition of the National Pite Council is as proposed. What's surprising is that actually a unique view of the rejection of this law has both the far left and the far right and that's what we should all imagine, which is, which is, which is the background of such a single attitude because de facto, here, in my opinion, how these things can be solved. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, time, Mr. Tudjman.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186821	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Irena Petrievcanin-Vuxanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186822	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear Ministers with the Secretary of State and Associates. I will submit to the debate of my colleague Tudjman in the sense that previous discussions had taken place, and I will, of course, agree with my colleague Shuker, when it refers to the authenticity of my colleague Balic's statement and if my colleague Balic will not be offended by what I am going to paraphrasise her here now because she has said nicely that she can specify the wishes of the people of Vukovar and I agree with the fact that a colleague can very much specify the wishes of the population of Vukovar and it is much more authentic than others here in the assembly, without anyone feeling called. First of all, for three facts. First, because she was born there, spent her childhood, lived, and then experienced the tragic death of her parents, which no child should feel, and of course, all because of the Homeland War and the aggression on Vukovar. So I trust more authentic representatives of Vukovar and the people of Vukovar than some others, although we all have feelings for Vukovar and I don't deprive anyone of the right, neither myself nor anyone else to talk about Vukovar, but still, they speak more authenticly. Also, this law was not meant to resolve the issues in which it was spoken here in the assembly. He had neither the intensity nor the desire to solve these issues, and these issues actually had nothing to do with the piety of the dead in the Homeland War and the piety in general in the Homeland War. What's important to say is that in this session of parliament, no matter what some think about this summation, it's another topic, but when we talk about laws passed, then this synergy is highly productive and successful. There's been a full defense law of the Homeland War, so I refer to this topic. The Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War has been passed, and as you know, more than 1890 people are still missing. On 18.11. was declared the date of remembrance, so on the Day of Remembrance of the victims of the Homeland War and the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Vukovar and Skabrnje. Also, what I did not hear in previous discussions, and we heard when this law was in the first reading, that this bill was done in close cooperation with defence associations that stem from the Homeland War, and their headquarters in Vukovar, therefore from the area of the city of Vukovar, with the co-workers of the mayor of Vukovar and with the mayor of Vukovar himself. I believe it's well-known the situation on the Ovcara and the situation on Veleport. What exactly catastreically enters these areas and that all these 28 years have been regulated in one way by which legal frameworks regulate this mention and that the whole series of measures are now incorporated which was previously not regulated, and this law will be. It is also important to highlight the fact, and it is in the very law that many educational activities will be included for students and students and other interested ones, and I also see the contribution of my colleague Tudjman through these two amendments to extend the competence of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Science and Education because this is simply logical and necessary. We also heard that individuals are talking about the concept of large-scale Serbian aggression which is a narrow term, so I simply don't understand, in fact, not knowing they're abolising Serbia, Montenegro, JNA and all the militia units from the crimes committed because large-serb aggression is a narrow term. Aggression wasn't just as big-serb as a narrow term, it was what I said as a broader term. This law has many positive effects, not only for defenders, not only for the people of Vukovar but also for future generations of Vukovar. We also heard that nothing is invested in Vukovar and the Vukovar-Srijem County, and that's one of the false statements, because if we're talking about facts then we need to say how big the funds are invested in Vukovar. From the state budget, 435.68 million kuna was invested, and if we look at Vukovar through Vukovar-Srijem County, then it is 863 million kuna, which is immeasurably compared to some previous governments. We also heard that nothing, nothing, is done about residents and quality improvements in the city of Vukovar, yet it is not true. If we look at what is very important, which is employment, then more than 2,000 people were employed, and 618 families got family homes that cost more than 50 million kunas, etc., not to mention how many people got apartments. Also, of course no one contests the fact that he has reason for frustration. The reason for frustration is and will continue to exist as long as some who have committed war crimes unfortunately have not been processed, and until that justice has seen the light of day in the way in which it should be seen. As far as Serbian and other national minorities are concerned, many countries in the world do not have such rights towards national minorities as the Republic of Croatia has achieved, and this is still the first laws I have said since '91. Furthermore, every next law has actually gone hand in hand to national minorities, and today we can actually say that even if we look at some global scales, there is indeed a country where national minorities exercise high rights. As far as bilingualism is concerned, we've heard it all before when this law was in the process of reading. Again, since 2011, there have been 1/3 members of the Serb national minority, which is about 33.34%, and which means that this law does not even want to be above the Constitutional Law and those laws that regulate this issue, and that bilingualism will always be a privilege for one, and for others it will be a rock of stumbling and interference. But when it comes to Vukovar, it would not be good for us to adopt the view that the entire national minorities are being stegmatized and declared responsible because some members or members of that national minority committed crimes against the Republic of Croatia and the population because they should be kept in mind and that around 9,000 Serbs participated in the Homeland War but on the part of the Croatian army. So we need to strive not to strengthen tensions but to calm down from all sides, regardless of what some sides want to boost these tensions. National minorities have no reason to be dissatisfied, but also the domestic population, so the Croatian population must not feel unsatisfactory and the rights of national minorities should not go to the expense of the domicile population. For us, Vukovar has always been a key point in defending the eastern border on the Danube, and for Serbs, it is a city where they cross 1/3 of the population by number and according to the applicable laws they exercise the right to bilingualism. And that's a fact as much as anyone didn't like it. So, Vukovar returned to the pre-war situation, and it's almost as easy as it is now to have a Serbian and Croatian population in those ratios as it was before or less, and they have to live together no matter how hard it is, it's not easy now, especially now, to cause frustration and dissatisfaction, but I don't think that nobody should be frustrated about it because it should be seen as one civilizational reach and as a measure of peaceful reintegration and if we remember the Erdut Agreement that is no longer in force and if we look historically then we should look at it in a positive sense and, of course, strive to make it a positive initiative from the very national minorities not to insist on something that is no longer necessary, and especially to respect all these facts now. Therefore, Croatia guaranteed the national minority all rights during peaceful reintegration, and it was further implemented as it was implemented. This law is not a law that regulates the rights of national minorities and bilingualism it regulates everything we have already heard and in this context it should be seen as a positive step and something that will contribute to a better and better quality life of the population in Vukovar regardless of their nationality or nationality. They are all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but I think this law equally affects members of national minorities in a positive way as a positive step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186823	Thank you, too. And now it's Mr. Stevo Culey's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186824	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, ministers with associates. There came Vukovar at the debate in the Croatian Parliament, uh I am very shaken after all these discussions so all that I have prepared for myself must be pushed aside so that I can speak as I have learned, as those who died in Vukovar and those who have the right to speak of it in that way, and that is one way to tell the truth. In Vukovar and the vicinity of Vukovar, 22 members of the unit died where I was one of the commanders. My friends from all over Croatia died in Vukovar. In Vukovar, police officers from all over Croatia died and special forces I was a member of. In Vukovar, young people from all over Croatia were killed, such as the Manikas Red Hood, a member of the HoS that we exhumed these days. In Vukovar, they fought and organized a defense beside the young, older Hawk, Tomislav Mercep, Blago Zadar's only general, the question of whether he would have been a general if he hadn't died, might have been where Tomislav Mercep is today. In Vukovar, which was also the Serbian city as they like to emphasize it at one point when they freed Vukovar when Vojislav Stanimirovic, who was here in the Croatian Parliament, was the same coalition partner of my party who said we freed Vukovar from Ustasha. Yeah, what did they do when they freed the city? First, they brought their markings to the Cyrillic that entered the city on tanks, brought a five-point star, brought a cocarda that has no foundation in Croatian law today to be removed as well as a five-point star. It's only a matter of time before the art from the Rijeka docks and the streets is transferred to the Vukovar dock and to the square, it's only a matter of time and how. Will this law protect Vukovar from the stars of the five-pointed, Cyrillic and cocardine? Will we be able to bring to justice all those murderers, the Vukovar destroyers? No, we won't. They're long gone. The Supreme Court, in absentia, freed Radenko Alavu from Borov Sela, commanders of the territorial defence headquarters, and in Borovo Selo, 83 non-Serbs were killed a hundred times, as were other assassins and destroyers of Vukovar who are free to walk in Vukovar, for which the protest was also organised by the victims of Vukovar and the mayors of Ivan Penava, who were offered by the enquiries of his fellow citizens and their grief in the Vukovar square, brought together 10,000 Croats and Croats from all over Croatia. Only we weren't there. Why weren't we there, let's ask ourselves? Now let's talk about Vukovar. You're not going to be friends while I'm here in the back bench talking that way. You will not follow, in the name of all the Manicas, in the name of all Zadar, and in the name of all Joseph, John, Marian, and other Croats, and Croats, of course, but you will not, you will not, while I am here. And all the trails, all the beuses, all the whites, not even the buds. You know why you won't? While there are any Croats in Vukovar similar to the one who was there in '91. That's why you won't. Because the truth will be passed down from knee to knee, because this law, even though it's unspeakable for me in some things, is still possible to get something good in the whole story. And I'm not happy with him, I'm not until the end, and I can never be satisfied because I'd only be satisfied if we were to release Vukovar as they freed him, so maybe we wouldn't have these problems today. No, I don't call for violence, I don't call for hate, I call for justice, that Radenko and similar have seen the face of justice and that they have served Croatia a debt for the crimes they have committed, if I were satisfied then. I would be pleased if the Croatian and Croat murderers did not have mausoleums as you speak in Croatia, if Vukasin Šoškocanin had a monument if he were a hero in Croatia, he might be a little pleased. If you were to call on your employers and call on the face of justice I would be pleased if Vukovar were not offended at every step but if only the truth were about him I would be satisfied with what Glavasevic read, do you know who read it first? Who read it first in the Vinkovci at the hotel? Vlado Jozic called the Ivanova Police and I. And you know who brought it? Viktorin Juric Pasa, the Hos's survivor, brought him first through Mala Bosna and showed us at the hotel, and this piece of work that he was and who opposed him knows with what intention he opposed him. A lot is said of Vukovar and a little is true. How did the Hawk get older? Why did he end up like that? Who's waiting for him? How did the guy who robbed SDK end up? And they killed him, the Serbs killed each other, and the Hawk the Elder was guilty. How did Tomislav Mercep end up for insubordination? He failed to prevent some alleged felonies from testifying against him. I'd have a lot to read, but that's all I have left. Before the constitutional changes in 2012 To set up Cyrillic panels in any Croatian town or place, it took more than 50% of the population to live in it, it was changed by our President Ivo Josipovic along with that Prime Minister Milanovic who now holds the presidency and who is sitting in his seat, who said while he will not be in Vukovar what we planned but will be a Cyrillic, which he will return to us under the auspices of the night together with Ranko Ostojic, perhaps return and Sabodos, and he is in Ireland receiving a Croatian pension. Yeah, they're gonna come back, they're gonna come back like an avet of the past, and Mr. Bauk's just coming in, and I wonder if he might have been visiting my club so I don't have to drive him out of the room for a few times. Yeah, that's why I'm here at HS to skin you like a Beus Richembergh co-worker who said he'd sue me and never sue me. That's exactly what my friends say, let's look into each other's eyes, that's the only way we can talk about Vukovar. You'll say I'm emotional, if I am because you have to be emotional if you love your people, if you love your country and if you're true and just, you have to be emotional, and all the others are people's sensual, without emotion, without love for your people and your country, those who disarmed their people, the fifth column and she, and those who waited for brigades, proletarian liberators, may have waited for Simu Dubajić to finish what wasn't '45, maybe they were waiting for Perkovic to finish what he didn't do. Europe [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Killing [[Intruder: Time has passed]] Let it pass. [[Intruder: Time has passed]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186825	Mr. Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186826	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Culey, who freed Vukovar and from whom? Who celebrated the release of Vukovar from that emotion that you have now shown and I fully agree with you. Who are these people? The same ones who want Cyrillic today, the same ones who don't respect the Croatian state, the same ones who built a Chetnik monument on the disgrace of the Republic of Croatia, there's no one asking the question, and what is that? It is the weakness of Croatian politics, all these 29 years. The weakness of Croatian politics, it needs a clear and loud word. The arrests that came into politics to take money in this assembly, to take money from this people, and in fact to say nothing and do nothing to help the people, and to help themselves very, very well by taking money in this assembly and sitting here for high wages, and certainly they didn't deserve them by being the way they were supposed to be. in this assembly. [[/Intruder: Your time is up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186827	Thank you. Mr. Culey's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186828	They would never have sat in HS if they had not watered down Croatian defenders, had they not created so many associations of Croatian defenders, that the defenders had never been able to unite in one association, they knew in some of their victories that they should rule, they were neither written nor capable of it, but they left the smart Croats who were their servants, so they used them for it, they knew the commandant and they knew how to manage only they could not spend what many in the Republic now, they think they would spend, but they won't, everything changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186829	Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186830	Aborting [[I know why.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186831	Please don't, please don't, don't, don't, don't comment like that. Now he will speak, Mr. Zeljko Ragug.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186832	... Vice-President HS, Ministers, State Secretary with Associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. [[Speaker not enabled]] After a number of discussions and an assessment of the laws that we are talking about today, there is little room left for us to say something new because we have repeatedly repeated ourselves in the the thesis and emphasis on the quality of this law and its denial most often without argument, without basis. Vukovar has been in public since 1991, as a special country pitet. It has been since 1991 and in the Croatian public in BiH. This is also witnessed by the fact that on the day of the fall of Vukovar on November 18, 1991. BiH Croats expressed solidarity with the Croatian people in BiH and the Republic of Croatia by creating the Croatian community of Herceg Bosnia, which was a clear statement not only of the demands for equality of Croats in BiH, but of the fact that Croatians in both Croatia and BiH will jointly oppose aggression against Croatia and BiH, which soon followed. It is good that this law came on the agenda, that it would sublime all efforts by its provisions, all the successes of the authorities in the Republic of Croatia, at national, regional, local level. Institution dealing with education, education, science and thus creating assumptions that measures will be taken to enable the demographic, cultural and economic development of Vukovar. But what should also be pointed out, that in the identity sense of the contemporary Croatian nation, Vukovar is a turning point that has succeeded, therefore, in allowing the Croatian people to homogenise and counter the aforementioned aggressions on the Republic of Croatia and BiH, and it was precisely the aggressor who failed in its intention that the fall of Vukovar would cause the defence of the Republic of Croatia to waver. On the contrary, there was a homogenisation and strong resistance to aggression that resulted in the creation of a Croatian state, i.e. by liberating the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Today, Croats in BiH watch what their countrymen are doing in the Republic of Croatia in an identical sense, when it comes to the Homeland War and its consequences, will surely follow this example to some places of their own suffering and its resistance in BiH, and certainly, although it is not appropriate, there will be any compromise, and there have been examples of such cases today, when it comes to Vukovar, there are similar places in BiH for the Croatian people to suffer. I will mention only one such place in Central Bosnia, the Knight, where in 316 days of siege of the Bosniak army that manipulatively called itself the BiH Army, 653 Croats were killed. It is certain that the Knight, therefore, is one of the special pitets for the Croats in BiH, but what such one decision, when it comes to BiH's Croats, will bring total understanding of the internal understanding of the Croatian nation in Croatia and BiH, is one more realistic consideration of contemporary relations in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, so in the countries that have been created by the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, Croatian-Serbian relations, Croatian-Bosnica relations because these relations are still part of the misunderstanding within the Croatian nation today, and precisely the adoption of such laws in Croatia and BiH will allow one more realistic, rationale to see the consequences of the Homeland War in Contemporary Life and BiH. There was talk that this law didn't bring anything new. Since he will not help Vukovar, and precisely from a series of measures passed by the law, assumptions have been made that two key needs are being realized when Vukovar is concerned. This is a relationship to the victim of Vukovar, so in the past, which will be manifested now with numerous contents, but also respecting the forms that are necessary to respect in places such as Vukovar. Another need that will be realized by the measures that will enable this law is therefore a relationship to the modern moment of Vukovar and its future. The measures set out in the Peace, Development and Special Pitt Council structure of the Republic of Croatia by a series of authorities in the Republic of Croatia will therefore enable the involvement of the ministries and do not stand, they say, that there will be no additional funding. The law also states that it is possible for the ministries, within their responsibilities, to provide a series of measures that will contribute to better demographic, cultural and economic development of Vukovar. In conclusion, when it came to today, there were inappropriate assessments of the Serb national minority in the Republic of Croatia by respecting the principles on which the modern Croatian state was created, above all, the political idea of President Tudjman's reconciliation, a political idea that allowed for the peaceful reintegration of parts of eastern Croatia. There is no need to discuss Vukovar, respecting the emotions that are justified, there should be no chance of discrediting the Serb national minority. Our relationship with Vukovar is measured by a civilized attitude towards the Serb national minority and the fact that tens of thousands of Serbs participated in the ranks of the Croatian Army. All in all, Vukovar will remain a turning point for contemporary Croatian identity in both the Republic of Croatia and BiH, and following this law, BiH Croats have been given an example to set themselves up according to their places of pitet in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186833	Thank you. Mr. Ljubic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186834	A colleague of Raguž, the information you presented, so on the day of the fall of Vukovar, so the Croatian community of Herceg-Bosnia is actually an expression of the national responsibility of the Croatian leadership in BiH and the self-defense reflex. However, I would like to evacuate another piece of information here. When the first grenades began to fall to the Vukovar hospital, therefore, the citizens of western Herzegovina, in particular the broad brieg, stopped at the border of the broadband municipality on the road to the tank colony, two JNA Corpses, thus showing actual solidarity with the attacked Croatian people in the Republic of Croatia, without talking about all the defenders who defended Vukovar including therefore my neighbour Blago Zadar. So here I would now like to appeal to the same level of national responsibility here in the National Corps of the Republic of Croatia, BiH, at the moment when the Croatian people in BiH are threatened, or when its sustainability and political subjectivity are threatened.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186835	Thank you, time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186836	So it is precisely the engagement of educational institutions, scientific research institutions that are mentioned in this law, visits to Vukovar and Croats from BiH that already realised numerous schools from BiH were in Vukovar with their students, so understanding of the young generations that the territory of the Republic of BiH was a single battlefield and that the solidarity of the Croats on one side of the border enabled not only better defence of the Republic of Croatia, its peaceful reintegration, but also the fact that the Croats of BiH are still fighting for their equality in BiH today, which they will certainly successfully and realised through a series of support from the Republic, which exactly respects the principle expressed in relation to the Croats of BiH to Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186837	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Mr Tomislav Panenic will have his own discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186839	Thank you very much. Well, let's wait and see what the promoters have done, so they've had one break, so they've probably been thinking a little bit about what's been said here. I would say one thing, of course, that there are emotions around these laws, there are always emotions, and especially we who come from this area expect more and more. And you have to understand us sometimes when we're emotional in some way we're expressing ourselves, we're always asking more if that's exactly what the citizens are looking for. And if you were to ask now about the town of Vukovar any Croatian nationality, any Serbian nationality, what would they say about what was contained in the Vukovar Act as a place of special country petite? It is likely that all Croatian nationalities would talk about probably trying to solve the question of bilinguality of the board, so that the problem that constantly sparks and Cyrillic plates there is life. And so you ask the Serbian nationality that lives there, and they would say that it's probably something where it's trying to ban Cyrillic plates, so we have the wrong idea, we're not saying that here something that's written isn't our reality, it's not something that we live there, which we mark. So I can understand this when you say let's get it legal, when we get something legal then it's still a stronger document not just that local initiative anymore, what the defense attorneys do not know, the families of the victims, the city as a unit of local self-government than here, and we're going to give one worry. But you also have to understand when we see the danger that the state is trying to do something about it. We're going to take it from here, and then we're going to shape it the way we look at it and we're afraid once at that state level, there's a change that doesn't agree with the locals. And it's always local when officials and members of the city council are elected, everyone has to take care and care that just as little while I don't know my mandate or in some campaign, they hurt the feelings of people who live there and everyone will ask for the solution to be as acceptable as possible. And that is why it was also at times when politics differed and adopted that Vukovar was declared a place of special pitet and it was discussed both Cyrillic and all that and it was bitter and transferred to a national level, and it is precisely necessary to say that this transfer to a national level has defined that the policy led in Vukovar has a significant impact on overall opinion in the Republic of Croatia. One mayor of Vukovar, of course, has visibility in Croatia, that is the same Ivan Penava, not diminishing his values as a man who does that, but if the mayor of another city were his visibility, especially political visibility would be significantly lower. And therefore it should be considered that even such a law, that expectations from it are high. Here is a fellow Bear what, I know that he would probably want to solve with one act all the problems that arise there in Vukovar, but we are facing a state in which there are laws, organic laws or other laws that define certain areas that are in one part, most of which we can say absolutely acceptable, but on the other hand when it comes to a micro-location that is burdened with events that were then question all the values of this policy and ultimately good people, who propose universally good solutions when they come there can't deal with feelings that are just starting from the Homeland War. And the news of the victim's identification that we've now had at the moment the excitement, the launch of new masses, new feelings, and it takes some time and it needs understanding and it's exactly what the days of the victims and any moment when these feelings come up and then about a bill like this or someone else's will always be critically evaluated and will say we haven't solved our problem. And we have to agree here that the adoption of this law will not solve the problem that is smoldering and that it will last for a very long time in the area of the city of Vukovar because it does not enter into essence, it does not actually come in that we are calling for other laws, international standards, signed conventions, and everyone when you say it individually and whoever lives in the city of Vukovar will say that, I understand it, I accept it, but life tells me differently. Is now as you look at how they communicate and those who understand us who have defended the Republic of Serbia, defended Vukovar and others, we see that we have really wanted to defend the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia against the great Serbian or any other in which it has been called aggression, and in this we have suffered and succeeded in the end, we have paid dearly, but when you look at those who, by our understanding of the attackers, they communicate in their communities that they have defended the people, the Serb people there who have been threatened. And it finally comes down, so in the end, if we're all defenders, we can't all be defenders, somewhere that truth needs to be defined. And through the laws that touch me it opens up a space for one communication a day, everyone is right, wherever the prominent politician of Croatian nationality comes to defend, here we have a burning speech from Steve Culei where he said I am not satisfied enough, because the very core of the problems touched with this, and the same thing we will have where someone from the Serb national minority who is a politician will say what to defend their interests, and there we need to be uniform that the law as such cannot solve what is an act, there can be no sufficient treatment just for certain days in Vukovar because the minister he knows very well and the area there and often comes and talks with people. If you asked these people to write a bill, then it wouldn't be such a proposal, it would be a proposal that is difficult to adopt here, we would probably be able to adopt such a proposal bombed by the EU, world institutions, by numerous organisations because it would reflect passion. The passion of those people who live and who want to change something. For this reason, when we talk about this proposal, it is as such that, it is written correctly, so it contains that it is the same, but the depth it covers cannot help those who ask the Minister, the Government, to adopt such a law that the problems that were created during that time can be solved by adopting such a law. It can be influenced through educational activities, through working with future generations, that this co-existence may be softer to be more acceptable in some way, but we also witness that life does not write exactly that kind of story, there will always be someone who has a political interest, who every little bit of it is going to be softer, to create new tension, and as much as it is investing in co-existence and materially, and in any other way, it is not enough that we simply cut it, we have not cut to be clear and in Vukovar, that someone who has political power and power comes in there, and especially if there is one broad support, it says that the fact is that and it is, and so from now on, the attitude and will not change. I'm afraid as someone who really comes from that area, I'm not from the town of Vukovar itself, like my colleague Mariana, who was in deeper with it, that the future that comes to us will diminish, too much of the wounds that have occurred, that it will become some Hollywood-based pamphlet of anything that forms there, and that those who have suffered, who have victims in their families will after some time say that the state has forgotten them, and that's, that's what time is doing, it's why it's important that at this point we're being clear by communicating that it's whether communication is started to solve the question, and then it was, the question about Cyrillic, that's how it's been communicated, maybe someone has hidden a little bit, so he didn't want to say it directly, but people felt it. Now we have a proposal here that hasn't touched it and as such will not achieve the acceptance of what is expected and will not merit the minister, the government will be one-signed but here will last For some time, some better proposals may be defined [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186840	Time. Mr. Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186841	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. The law on the declaration of Vukovar by the place of a special homeland pitet should be passed precisely because of the debates we have heard here today from some clubs, unfortunately and from some MPs who have come to this topic in one way to undo everything that has happened in the last 30 years with that city, and especially in the light of the days that we need to remember with a drink, and that is why we need to bring it in, and no matter what anyone here has spoken about because there are those who are in the way, we have seen and we are not even ashamed to say it, they have simply shown that they are not at the level of what should be this parliamentary representative who is considering not politically and exclusively political in order to break perhaps their own party or party, but realistically looking at what was going on there. In the way we heard it today, we saw that someone wanted to promote themselves in view of those times that happened 30 years ago. from their positions and we understand that they prefer to go to the forest of Bezovica, someone prefers an egg or wood, perhaps another site from World War II, but today in the 21st century we talk about the casualties that were not so long ago, in times of civilization and modern times when we thought that something like this could never happen in the space of Europe again and that simply something that would never be, but it was. So what's the problem with that now? Did this city bear the sacrifice of an independent, independent Republic? It is. Did thousands of Croatian defenders die there so that today we could talk not only about this law but about anything in this HS? They did. So where is the problem in the words in this law, which is bad in the words "remembrance", "worthy marking", "breeding, educational and scientific activities", "presentation", "exposure", "worthy manner", in which are they negative? Nothing. A simple word to the word positive, a memory of that city certainly positive. And then comes the policy order, the political thinking "what do you", "why you", "why don't you", "why don't we", "I don't know what the Russians do, so what would we do", "why do you do it pre-election", "it only works for one party or party", etc. etc. Does this city, these people who live there, deserve that kind of debate? I don't think so, but it's allowed, in politics is allowed, let everyone present himself in their own way. The embarrassing way to present Mr. Stazic on behalf of the SDP Club is something we unfortunately have a chance to listen to every day, but Vukovar also bothers him and Vukovar and this law to turn that law into something we lack. This government has given this city great attention, about everything, from projects, from development, from the legislative framework, simply this city is in the focus of this government, whatever anyone wants to say, I don't remember, I was part of some governments, I was here in opposition, I watched what is happening, no one has ever given such a significant, not only Vukovar but also the victims and defenders and this minister here with his ministry, the project Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem, a valuable project that contributes not only to the city of Vukovar and the Vukovar-Srijem County but also to many other municipalities and cities. The restoration of the city's victims or collapses, the restoration of a tower in Vukovar where many local self-government, regional self-government and the state itself were involved, and the city itself. A number of infrastructure projects over the past few years only directly from the state budget of 356 million kuna of those national funds, plus 461 million kunas from European funds, are not insignificant funds in the development of the city. The Law on the Development of the City of Vukovar, also a daily topic and a desire for the European Commission to finally give us a positive opinion on this Law that should encourage investment in this City. How does that feel around here? We've heard, it's all not enough, and they almost don't say nothing, it's not even worth mentioning, and then it's the law that needs to determine the days, the way, the memories or the drinking to this city. Obviously, it's just some reason for politics and each other's accusations. ... The day of memory of the victim of Vukovar and Skabrnje at 18.11., not so far many dared, we did it, whatever anyone wanted to say or not to say. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We brought the army back to this city, and that was once a problem, and then today we have, I say, an opportunity to listen to how nothing is worth it, because, in some way, it's convenient, in the pre-election year, that it doesn't make any sense, which is at all going to fix, who's going to remember, let's just, I don't know, World War II, they've taught us since we were little then how to respect then leaders, there was no song or any reading in which these people were not mentioned and so on, we unfortunately have to say that to young people we have to go to exactly and with such legal suggestions that they would be familiar, that they wouldn't forget what happened in that space, in that city thirty years ago. I simply want this law, I say, to be passed regardless of the opposition of some clubs, and whatever it means absolutely to them in their policies, and when they had the opportunity, they clearly showed how they see this City and what is most important to them in this City.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186842	Mr. Raguž, Mr. Raguž has his first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186843	Comrade Boric, you have well noticed that a number of colleagues did not want to comment on the quality of this Law, but simply went beyond the scope of the subject matter of this Law by opening issues that are not regulated by this Law, but by some other laws. You agree that this is the usual practice of our opposition in the Croatian Parliament when it does not wish to recognise the successes of the current government, then it is running away from the topic in a way that opens other issues that are simply not on the agenda, stressing that there will be a dispute between local and national levels, so I do not know what the topic would be from the national level, which, of course, implies and consultations with the local, regional level, if it is not the Vukovar topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186844	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186845	Thank you very much. My colleague Raguž, which is why I said that even in this other area they have no arguments, I'm just saying in the last few years of this government over 700 million kunas of direct investment in the development of the City itself, in their infrastructure projects. Additional Project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, even more, I say what I expect most, and this is the Law on the Development of the City of Vukovar, and that lasts for many years, let's say, the effort to restore this law because it brings tax relief to many entrepreneurs who might find their own interest in doing their job in that city, and to simply realize their intentions to work there, and to hire people who live there, so that this story, I say, and after what we have listened to when we have passed the Law of Holidays and Unworked Days, we have the opportunity to, I say, again from the same team to listen to what they think and about this Law itself, obviously they don't care too much about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186846	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186847	Dear fellow Boric, so you gave a heartwarming speech about Vukovar as a place of special pie, I will support this Law, because he is fine. However, you will admit to me or answer this question, and may the Minister as a Proposer, I am pleased that you have joined, will this Law solve the problem that has caused it, will it solve the problem of bilingual panels? Will it solve the Cyrillic panel problem? Will Marijan Zivkovic, who has given two sons for the Homeland, be pleased with this bill? He won't, because he doesn't. So this law is an exclusive play, so it solves nothing, and that fictitious bickering of a liberal HDZ and a credible SDP means it won't help you either in these within the party elections, and it won't help you in the next parliamentary elections either.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186848	Answer, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186849	Thank you very much. Comrade Zekanovic, I do not support any of the games that you will support, so for me, this law is much more serious than what you, uh, are showing yourself. It's obvious that you can't set two basics, so you support something that's a play. I wouldn't do that if I were you, only if you didn't have any other political reasons that you just said. It will show the time to choose who is where, who is the great Croat, who is small, and so on, what you are talking about here every day, will show this time regardless of your attempt to adjust each topic to yourself and some of your thinking, that you are the only ones here who are relevant to determine what is right or wrong in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186850	Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186851	So, in 238, I, my colleague Boric, didn't say at any point, so, who's relevant, he's right,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186852	No, no, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186853	238, I said, that means two hundred thirty-eight.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186854	Where did he lie?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186855	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186856	Where the gentleman insulted, lied, that's what this is about, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186857	So he was giving the wrong facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186858	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186859	So that's it, look at 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186860	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186861	That's number 238, so Boric's colleague has the right to his position, but he can't impose on me that I have an attitude like he, he supports Andrej Plenkovic, he will support him, I don't support him and I don't mean to support him.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186862	But we knew that well before. All right, let's move on, Mr. Panenic will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186863	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, of course, in the final word, we need to connect those emotions that get excited, as well as that mind that needs to prevail because we are discussing the law here. I would actually point out, here's a scene I had when the minister came to the assembly. The press gathered around him and I was looking at the question of the law, so we're talking about Vukovar about one national I would tell the identity of everyone who actually expressed their feelings about the Homeland War, so that there would be questions that would change in what way, no question was the minister about internal relations. I believe he would have been happier if he had been asked about the law if he could just say what he was proposing, his team gave and what he thought would explain. We'll probably hear on behalf of the promoter after him after all these words of ours as he sees actually our sayings that were here, our remarks. But let us consider, however, that this law will in some way formulate a condition. We who say it's not right enough are right ourselves. Those who also consider it, and we always think that it can and must do better. Probably the minister will say and can and must better, we all say it often, so the law was actually and here's a question inside our club whether to go with the amendments. What would we bring? We'd bring here an extra one debate, we're making one proposal he refuses, but what the minister can say on the other hand is, so who's doing the law here, is it you or I'm doing the law, so it's my proposal, it's not just that you take it together and shape it the way you think it should look. So we should give the minister a chance to revive his law so we'll probably all get together after a certain time, a year, two see the situation in Vukovar whether it's better, more, less, worse, what's going on. But I just want to say one thing to the minister, let's not make a single law that is the Holy Scriptures, but at the time that we see that something is not engaged in the best way, it doesn't give the right result, let's take action and change. And it is not a single law that it is the sole responsibility of the minister, and we see very often that especially when a minister leaves his position to tear him apart only then everyone is clear about it and saying what was wrong, which would have done better, which is how, and this is a message and precisely to the rulings who will give their vote in favour of this law to adopt him. And be critical at this point, that tomorrow when you vote on it, it's actually a picture of someone's position. So it's not just for the club, it's for one collegiation to vote, and then one day there's not a Secretary of Tom Bear to say, so, yeah, but we know that it wasn't right, so we had a stand but here we didn't. That's a bad message. I'll say this law does no harm to anyone, he as such, still looking at the victims themselves in Vukovar gives one legal framework. On the other hand, I expected more, materially and in any way, politically that more will be incorporated into the law so that after the adoption of what people should be in Vukovar tomorrow, I can really say something that gives us a new boost and what we want to be and a message for the future, you won't, you won't change history, you won't change what the Homeland War is, and you won't change what it is to suffer, and it's a message not only for us, but for future generations, is it happening to us that after the suffering, the Second World War, after the communist deaths, we have suffered and in the Homeland War and we send more once a message can't happen anymore because the consequences of the suffering are clear. Both this law and the laws relating to this problem must have a strong message. It's protecting the integrity of the Homeland War and it's in the function of future generations that they're not in a situation like we were in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186864	Thank you. Mr. Miro Bulj, finally on behalf of the Most Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186865	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers with our associates, colleagues and colleagues today we discussed the proposed Vukovar law the site of Homeland, declaring Vukovar a place of special homeland pitet. What I said during the entire debate, of course, when we all talk about Vukovar, in the best faith, either from the left, or from the right and surely the minister has the best will and he has invested probably enormous energy on him and his team to be the best law. However, I must and have an obligation to state my position and the position of the Most Club. The bilingualism of these and Cyrillic tablets that are symbolized in Vukovar would be and would be a symbol of the victory of the Serb criminals in the future by setting up those panels in Vukovar. It is a fact and it is clear and the people showed, not only Vukovar, the code in the case and we know the trial that was most important and the media was exposed and this sad story about the death of the sons of Marijan Zivkovic and everything that happened hopefully will never happen again. But this law has not solved the problem. The problem of bilingualism has not been solved. So, the problem of Cyrillic plates that we should have in Vukovar means that special law if we're already making it. But by constitutional law on national minorities against which I have nothing above all, it should be that law if the Constitutional Court is after 2013 when we have collected the signatures for Vukovar the place of special pitet then we have collected 65,000 signatures and the Constitutional Court has made it clear what can and how can it be. And this law did not solve the problem except that it was prescribed Article 8 here which was then also in this referendum issue. It is therefore necessary to amend Article 12 on national minorities. It should be extended to Vukovar so that the bilingual plates are not worth it. So this part of Vukovar is exempt from the law because the Cyrillic plates represent a symbol not a letter, not a Cyrillic or bilingualism in other parts of it, absolutely no problem at all, but in Vukovar it does not solve the problem. This law prescribes 4 days of marking, in which way it is marked. But it's all going on now. The only thing we've reduced is the name here. We gave the Mandatory Vukovar the place of a special homeland petite. The question arises, why the homeland. So Vukovar's the victim. Vukovar needs to be talked about and remembered with the pie. And Vukovar himself today everything we have from the markings that you have listed here, and even we have badges that, here is Vice President Brkic wearing a Vukovar badge the place of a special pite. Under that, it was organized under that name of marking. Therefore, what is in this law is already in place in Vukovar. Of course, I expected that what Prime Minister Plenkovic was saying would come from the European Commission and that he would fight for special rules of play to come to Vukovar... i.e. support economic, economic, to be excluded from certain things as a place of special pitet, the war affected the area, and I expected that part. [[You don't understand.]] But there is no part of it. We were thinking, on behalf of the Club here is a member of the Committee Zeljko Poljak who, otherwise, veterans, Croatian defenders, brother of the late Ivica Sokol Sokol, who was commander of the Fair, was my fellow citizen as a member of the Committee has shown so much dissatisfaction with this law that even a number of other people that simple and amendments can't fix this. Why can't we fix the amendments? Because the amendments don't solve the problem of bilingualism, Cyrillic plates in Vukovar. I'm talking about Vukovar because we just need to know that on tanks, weapons were Chetnic features that were on Cyrillic. Of course, we can't forget the five-pointed star, the Sljivancan and all those criminals. Therefore, it would be best for the Minister if he couldn't get rid of it this way, withdraw this law and solve it the way he can get rid of it... Vukovar [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186866	The next Club of Representatives is finally respected Marijana Balic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186867	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I have the need at the end of today's debate to sum up the most important facts adopted by this bill, given that during the debate, this law and what it is about has not always been talked about in fact. In short, the law has only positive effects for the population of the city of Vukovar, regardless of whether they are members of national minorities or Croats. The objectively speaking, there is not a single negative effect that can result from the adoption of this Law. Moreover, this law can also serve as a good framework for future laws or regulations with all benefits in the future life and development of the City of Vukovar. I'll point out one more thing. So this proposal also regulates a series of positive steps that have not been covered by any law so far. Its goal, among other things, is to preserve the permanent memory and memory of the sacrifice that the City of Vukovar made in the Homeland War. It should also be recalled that the proposal was made in close cooperation with representatives of defence associations from the city of Vukovar, the mayor and his associates. Therefore, by objectively looking at and saying there is no reason for anyone to be unsatisfactory and against this bill, I appeal once again as a Vukovar and as an advocate to the complexity of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186868	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the respected Croatian Defence Minister Tomo Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186869	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to express my gratitude to all of you who gave through the debate your contribution and regarding the content of this Law. But I'd like to set up a few discussions, but before that, here's my apology. In fact, I couldn't attend the debate the whole time because I was in the government session. I would single out a few content discussions and I would like to remove any form of insinuation that this law is in any way politicizing. In fact, I remind you that we adopted the initiative and conclusion on the adoption of this Act at a meeting of the Government on 17 November 2016 in Vukovar. So I ask you, therefore, to remove any such form of comment and approach to this law. There have been several discussions here and on the subject of persons missing in the Homeland War. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2019, in this esteemed home, for the first time in 2019, the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War, that this law clearly and precisely defined the responsibilities of all bodies and services in the Republic of Croatia involved in the search for missing persons. And as you could testify these days, the concrete effects of this law are visible in practice through quality international cooperation, the processing of all available, available information and data and the invention of our missing persons in the Homeland War, and in particular yesterday we had an identification of five persons missing from the Homeland War and four Croatian defenders and one civilian in the Department of Criminal Medicine and Crime. So, as for the process of intensifying the discovery of persons missing in the Homeland War, this government has made the strongest step possible so far. As far as the positioning of this Vukovar Act is concerned, I would also like to remind you that we have ultimately communicated clearly during our first reading presentation that this law is, in the context of the activities package, both legal and other measures that this government implements towards the city of Vukovar, both economically and specifically. Here's after this on the agenda is the status of Vukovar Hospital. So let's look at this law in a package of all those positive orientations towards the city of heroes, the city of Vukovar. What is important is the council that this law envisioned, its positioning and its role. I would remind you that today in 2020 we still have a whole series of unresolved issues in the town of Vukovar, and related to localities where terrible crimes have been committed by the Ovčara localities, via Velepromet. It is the obligation of all of us to make our contribution to leaving clearly positioned for future generations and with clear messages of location arranged precisely in a way to be a lasting memory of the victim, but also a reminder that such crimes never happen again. This council, given that there have been some initiatives here or debates, and related to the composition of the councils, is foreseen by representatives of the Office of Presidents through the Government, all resolutions, all resolution ministries at the end of the County of Vukovar-Srijemska, the city of Vukovar and associations from the Homeland War that operate in the area of Vukovar. Therefore, the content or composition of the councils and the competences both in that normative segment of the proposal for further legislative and sublegal actions in order to achieve all those measures which have been very much spoken here. I would like to remind you, or underline another measure that is in the government's 2020 normative activity plan, that is the Law on Cemeteries, which is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Construction, which also addresses a part of the issues mentioned here that would be directed towards the city of Vukovar and everything that has been spoken about here. The Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar as well. So this government, along with a whole series of what it has done so far, still has a very clear vision and goals of how and how to treat the city of Vukovar. I remind you, and some of you know this well because you're coming from that county, that over a billion and 300 million kunas of direct support through various programmes the government has directed towards the city of Vukovar. So, a full view of all the issues and related to the city of Vukovar. As far as the content of the law is concerned, it has been done in partnership and close cooperation with the city of Vukovar, with the mayor of Vukovar, with associations operating in the area of the city of Vukovar, and has ultimately received full support from the citizens of Vukovar, the mayor of Vukovar and associations from the Homeland War of Vukovar during consultations with the interested public. So I don't see any space here, and I find it absolutely unfounded that the law as such is not accepted in the city of Vukovar. All over the spectrum of its measures, the law brings positive effects towards the city of Vukovar. What was open here on several occasions, it's a question of bilingualism. So, I remind you once again, and I underline that this law highlights the importance of respecting art. 8. Constitutional law on national minorities. So it's quite clear that we can't rule out any regulations with this law, and especially here when we're talking about constitutional law. And I will also remind you that this question is also based on the assessment of the Constitutional Court, I apologize, and based on the Statute of the City of Vukovar, now in the jurisdiction of the City of Vukovar or the City Council of the City of Vukovar, where it is clearly prescribed that once a year an analysis be conducted and that the measures of the relative decision are also taken, and related to the establishment of bilingual panels or the setting up of bilingual panels, so let us be very precise and clear there. The question of Article 15 was also opened here, and regarding the state features, it is clearly defined in the Law, therefore, that the state characteristics of the Republic of Croatia can be placed at the cemetery, in paragraph 2, that it may be a state mark or flag of the country from which volunteers came to defend the City of Vukovar, therefore these concerns that were spoken of here, about the inappropriate to the City of Vukovar, may be excluded by inappropriate features. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, respecting all these arguments and all the positive effects that this Law brings, and seeing it fully, in a package of all the other measures that the Government has or has taken, or plans to bring forward towards the City of Vukovar, I expect and call upon you to respect the sacrifice of the City of Vukovar, respecting the specificity of the City of Vukovar, the heroic defense, to join, support this Law in a unique manner, and thus contribute to the preservation of all those valuable courts that are or are related to our city of heroes, the City of Vukovar. I call upon you regardless of political belongings, when we speak of the City of Vukovar, to be unique here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186870	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, and even before you started to lift the tile, the esteemed Representative Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186871	Thank you very much. Ministers as you said yourself, the biggest stumbling block is the Cyrillic plates in Vukovar, which are essentially the triumph of criminals and crimes that committed all the crimes in Vukovar, and that's what the Vukovars showed in 2013 when the signatures for the referendum were collected, 65,000 signatures were collected, so this law does not solve it. Here I would just mention, I would also ask you, Article 15, you said about the features, that, in Article 15, paragraph 2, it would also point out the signs of other countries, when visiting foreign delegations or when marking the deaths of volunteers from other countries, which means if you come to visit Vukic, the president of the state, Chetnik Vukic, will not apologize, there will also be a flag of Serbia that has committed all these crimes to damage, large Serb, here you can, you can quote it, I can read it to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186872	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186873	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Several times today during the debate, I heard that the plates were Cyrillic in Vukovar, that they were placed by the Serbs, especially Mr. Bulj, and I thought it was set up by the official administration of power, and that, who set up Mr. Bulj's records?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186874	You didn't, you didn't address the question, uh, the minister, so then the minister can't even answer. The next replica is the respected representative Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186875	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, by appreciating all your efforts, your efforts and your efforts, I'll only say one thing if you come, if you've never been to Vukovar, and you need to find the Court building, how would you find it? Or do you need, I don't know, the Employment Service, to get in front of the building? What's in front of this Parliament building? It stands for the Croatian Parliament. When you come to the building in Vukovar, it's nothing, nothing, so that's the city that's been sealed off with this policy, like, you can't say we're doing for Vukovar. You also don't work for Vukovar, what, do you have the strength to resolve it? Set up a record, so let's see what this government's position is, set up a record, whether it's bilingual or it's one-lingual, it's a key question that you need to answer, not just us doing something side-by-side, or in this way, or in that way, but we can't solve the real thing. Set up a record to finally be in town, so that we know that we have state institutions that have their mark.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186876	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Comrade Panenic, there are some rules about time, and you know them, so don't abuse them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186877	... I'm sorry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186878	We will conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186879	So now we're going to vote on the debated points. The first is the Final Proposal of the Law on the Declaration of Vukovar as a place of special homeland petite, second reading, P.Z. No. 808. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Miroslav Tudjman and representatives Vlaho Orepić and Tomislav Žagar. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, Croatian Defence Minister Tomo Medved, please be my guest Minister. Amendment No. First Representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186880	Dear President, MPs and MPs, Amendment Professor Alien to Art. 24th century 1. is accepted in the modified form, with reasons, the Council in cooperation with the body of the state administration responsible for science and education, the body of the state administration responsible for culture, the Croatian Institute of History, the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, the Institute of Social Sciences Ivo Pilar and the Public Institute of the Homeland War Vukovar, encourages scientific research activities, and publishing and memorials with the aim of preserving and research, and promoting the truth about the Homeland War and historical memory of the role of Vukovar in defence and the creation of the Republic of Croatia. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186881	Wait a minute, just a little bit Minister, we have to ask the MP if he agrees with such an amended proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186882	It's consensual.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186883	It agrees, well, that in the amended amendment it becomes an integral part of the law and the 2nd amendment, the 2nd amendment, of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186884	Amendment 2 shall be adopted in the amended form. Art. The 26th century is amended as follows: ‘The funds for the implementation of this law shall be provided in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia at the position of the Ministry, the authorities of the State Administration responsible for science and education and the authorities of the State Administration responsible for culture, and the budget of the units of local and regional and regional self-government unless otherwise prescribed by this law’.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186885	Do you agree, counselor?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186886	I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186887	Thank you, then and in such a modified form, that amendment becomes an integral part of the bill, so let's now go to Amendment No. 1st representative of Vlaha Orepić and Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186888	The amendment is not accepted by reason, the law stipulates that the National Pitet, Peace and Development Council has 17 members, including representatives of Vukovar-Srijem County and the city of Vukovar. In view of the council's main tasks, there is no need to further expand the basic composition of the council. Besides, Art. 22. It is determined that, where necessary, other external members and external associates may be involved in the work of the council.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186889	Thank you. It's obvious, Comrade Sagar, you're welcome. Someone's involved with the counsel, please disengage. Here we go. You can have a colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186890	Thank you. So, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment actually just wanted to strengthen the spirit of this law that is proposed because the law, the law's intensities according to what we understand, does not only include the city of Vukovar and the municipality of Bogdanovci, it has a far broader meaning and symbolically and each other. And in that sense, this amendment also wanted to include other units of local self-government and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia, and in this respect your argument is not acceptable to us. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186891	Then let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are now going to vote on the final proposal of the Law on the declaration of Vukovar as the place of a special country petite, please vote. I find that most of the votes 86 for, 21 abstentions are the Law on the declaration of Vukovar as the site of a special country petite.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186892	Before we move to the next point, I would just say that after it, we will have another point, and that is, the Report Immunity-Mandate, the Mandatory-Immunity Commission, is that, that will be the last point today, we are now going to the next point, and that is the Final Proposal of the Law on the transfer of founding rights over the General County Hospital of Vukovar and the Hospital of Croatian Veterans to the Republic of Croatia, the Second Reading, P.Z. No. 809 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172, in conjunction with Article 190 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Zeljko Plazonic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186893	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs,... this legislative proposal regulates that on the day of entry into force of the proposed law, the former founder of the General County Hospital of Vukovar and the Hospital of Croatian Veterans of Vukovar-Srijem County ceases to be its founder and founder of the Republic of Croatia, and the rights and duties of founders on behalf of the Republic of Croatia will be carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Health. Furthermore, it is found that the General County Hospital of Vukovar and the Croatian Veterans Hospital continues to work as the National Memorial Hospital of Vukovar on the day of the proposed law. The mutual rights and obligations arising between the government of the Republic of Croatia and Vukovar-Srijem County, the city of Vukovar and the National Memorial Hospital of Vukovar, Vukovar will be governed by a special agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186894	Thank you very much. For this brief exposure, we have the same replicas. He is the first respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186895	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, without a dilemma of praise, you point out, however, that the aim of the Vukovar Hospital as our national memorial hospital is to resolve the problem it has because of the inability for the county to monitor all that such a hospital must ensure that citizens are as satisfied with the service as all employees, which is financial sustainability. How do you plan to ensure the financial sustainability of the Vukovar Hospital when commitments are made at this time amount to nearly 5 billion kuna, of which 99% are waste on the hospital system? How will you ensure the financial sustainability of Vukovar Hospital when you cannot ensure the financial sustainability of the entire health system in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186896	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186897	Answering this question of yours, dear colleague, would take a lot more time than we can have in this afternoon's debate. I would prefer that we can specifically discuss this as a separate point of how we will do and what we need to do to make our health system financially sustainable. And I would ask you all together that today we are still focusing on the Vukovar Hospital, which should probably be approached with a complex way of regulating everything that has not led to this hospital which is extremely equipped and which can provide a whole series of very different services to its citizens and patients really being financially self-sustainable.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186898	The next replica is the respected representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186899	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State and in his first reading this proposal has received one general support here and he has also given it to her and now that it is not your minister's statement that has actually brought one more question, which is the merger of hospitals. I'm just curious about one question from the Vukovar Hospital, the Vinkowska Hospital, you bring them together or you don't connect them? Whether the Vukovar Hospital remains a separate entity that will provide its services with truly one appropriate assistance especially to those who are victims for whom it is referred as veterans. Am I left confused because in his statement he made it clear to those two hospitals that they might be the subject of merger. So I don't know if this is doing any good right now, or if it's all going to be annulled in the future by some new decision?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186900	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186901	As for functional hospital merger, it's already one I'd say project that came into life long before the current minister, here's my dear minister before this, who's also in his program, we have a functional hospital merger. The functional merger of hospitals is not just a single notion that we will combine the physical two hospital administrations, but means joining diagnostic therapy procedures in such a way as to perform specialists who are doing sufficient interventions and treatment procedures, to be in some way competent to do so and thus to reduce all possible waiting lists for certain therapeutic procedures, and on the other hand to be financially profitable and financially sustainable. So that's a little different than whether or not we're going to connect physically into the legal personality of the two hospitals together. That's the least of the problems. The easiest problem is to bring them together in a legal sense, it is most difficult to connect them in a functional sense to improve and increase efficiency in diagnostic therapy procedures, and that is important to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186902	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186903	Dear Secretary of State, I really need to go back to what we've already set up, and that's the problem of hospital financing. I'm sorry that the Vukovar hospital that deserves what tomorrow is going to vote and get and become a Memorial hospital is actually at the end of the way that you interpret it turns out to be solving her financial dues. Because in this sense, you should also think about other war hospitals and Pakracko and Gospićko and the hospital, Kninska, for example. which are in extremely difficult situations where restrictions are set to practically 90, 95% only go to employees' salaries and have no perspective in the long term. That's what your minister missed for four years, he didn't settle the funding, the debts to the wholesales only exploded in the 1st month 200 million kunas new. The situation is really not good, and I'm sorry we don't see it then. that you have any solution to these other hospitals at all. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186904	Thank you very much. Before you do, here's a response from the esteemed secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186905	For this to be a similar response first of all, my minister was also your minister, so I would like to speak to our minister because he is not Minister Zeljko Plazonic or HDZ, but he was then Minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That's the first thing. The other thing now is that we still have to concentrate on the Vukovar Hospital and its new ownership relationship that it has. As for these hospitals that you have listed, we need to look at them again in one complete financial display, which means we need to see the performance of their work, the money they received from HZZO, the work content, the performance, the quality of work, etc., etc. So it's about one job that we need to very, very thoroughly re-analyze and try all the hospitals to do, especially this little one, unlike the lady who's doing a good job if you're thinking about her, and she's the hospital that was most damaged after Vukovar during the Homeland War, to make them financially sustainable. It is one process that is certainly long-term, but which directly, I think and urgently should be established in our hospital financial management system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186906	Thank you. Before we continue to greet at the gallery of students and students of the Technical School of Rijeka. ... And now we're gonna keep going. [[Applause.]] Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the President of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, respected Ines Strenja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186907	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Secretary of State. So, at its 88th meeting on 12 February 2020, the Committee on Health and Social Policy discussed the final proposal for a Law on the transfer of founding rights to the General County Hospital of Vukovar and the Hospital of Croatian Veterans to the Republic of Croatia, which has delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by means of an act of 6 February 2020. The Committee discussed the bill as a parent working body. The proposer's representative also pointed out that this legislative proposal regulates that the date of entry into force of the proposed law, the former founder of the General County Hospital Vukovar and the Hospital of Croatian Veterans Vukovar-Srijem County ceases to be its founder and founder of the Republic of Croatia. the rights and duties of founders on behalf of the Republic of Croatia will be carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry of Health. It determines that the General County Hospital of Vukovar and the Croatian Veterans Hospital continue to work as the National Memorial Hospital of Vukovar on the day of the proposed law. The mutual rights and obligations between the government of the Republic of Croatia, Vukovar-Srijem County, the city of Vukovar and the National Memorial Hospital of Vukovar will be governed by a special agreement. After the discussion, board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on the transfer of founding rights over the General County Hospital Vukovar and the Hospital of Croatian Veterans to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186908	Thank you very much. I am now opening the debate and will be the first to speak again on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists of Independent Representatives of Ines Strenja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186909	"In every man's life there is an event and a time whose memory evokes special feelings, joy, sorrow, pride or piety. The thought of the town of Vukovar and its hospital between May 2nd and November 18th 1991 since the attacks by Serb rebels on Croatian police officers in Borovo Selo, to the fall and Serbian occupation of the city, almost no one can be left indifferent. In this most demanding time of independence and defence, the Republic of Vukovar Hospital at the symbolic level was actually a Croatian, self-organized with significantly limited material and human resources with insufficient outside assistance, exposed to the brutal destruction of a military superior enemy who denied all international conventions and customs of war. Until the end, the hospital remained steadfast and persistent in its fundamental purpose for the health care of every endangered man in the fight for life and for human dignity. During the three-month siege of Vukovar, the hospital overcame its medical and health role, became a symbol of the defence of the city of Vukovar, a pillar of the defence of Croatia, but also an institution in which, despite everything, fundamental human and civilization values, unity, unity, solidarity, responsibility, patience, optimism and mutual respect and respect. The hospital was treated, nursed, rescued, mourned, joyful, born, died, and with all that living. The hospital drove into the very center of the city's life. The hospital communicated with the rest of the world to hospital history, the hospital was a source of faith, strength, and endurance in the struggle for survival for mere survival. She was a supporter, a guarantee of safety for people who decided to resist evil, defend themselves, their city, and their homeland. Maybe that's why JNA officers opposed the demands of the International Red Cross Committee officials took over the hospital and allowed criminals to shed anger on the powerless, sick and wounded patients of Vukovar Hospital. The pre-planned monstrosity crimes committed directly after the hostile takeover of the hospital have shown the true nature of the great-serb conquerors, as well as all the impotence of European red tape. The example of the 1991 Vukovar Hospital shows that force and weaponry can be brought down to the ground by a hospital building and destroyed by modern medical technology, but that it does not necessarily have to suppress the spirit of human solidarity, love, goodness and self-inflictedness into the being of a man who daily lives a medical call in the full sense of its meaning." So these are the words that he wrote in the book of one of the most comprehensive books on the Vukovar Hospital historian Ivo Lučić and simply speaks about that hospital which is to all of us as doctors and medical staff at other battlefields were actually one of the lighthouses in which we saw and remained a symbol of fighting for Croatian independence. And today we have here before us this law, the University Hospital Act where, in fact, firstly, it is as if it comes to solving financial problems that it has not only her but also most practically all of our hospitals in Croatia, and in fact it should only be the transfer of founding rights to the General County Hospital of Vukovar and the Hospital of Croatian Veterans to the Republic because of its special significance in Croatian history. So it's about a hospital that shared the fate of the city of Vukovar, and it's the most severe hospital in the Homeland War. By changing status, then it becomes a National Memorial Hospital and its founding rights takes over the Republic of Croatia. According to the Health Protection Act, the founder of Vukovar Hospital Vukovar and the Croatian Veterans Hospital was Vukovar-Srijem County, which, due to its fiscal capacity of its budget, was no longer able to meet the obligations arising from the operation of the hospital in good time and it is really facing difficult financial problems. By taking over, therefore, there will be a resilient business of the hospital, and the implementation of joint procurement procedures, meaning at the state level, in order to achieve the effectiveness and standardisation of the supply of medicinal products and medical and other materials, significant savings and rationalisation are expected in the long term, as we are told in the explanation of this law. This hospital deserves a special position, but other hospitals deserve to think about how we're going to arrange their funding system because we missed it in these four years. I'm not saying you, but all of us, because health policy in one country must be the health policy of everyone because it concerns every citizen of this country, whether he's right, left, centrally oriented politically or being apolytic, and that was our role and we missed it in four years, and that's why I have to draw attention to that. The Vukovar hospital does not deserve to discuss it in this way, its financial problems that we are dealing with this law, it deserves to remain as General Lucic, a lighthouse in Croatian history which is a clear indication of how we lived, how we fought and where we should go with this country, with such people who have clearly shown how to live and fight for our country. A bridge of independent lists will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186910	The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Marijana Balic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186911	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the HS, dear secretary of state, distinguished MPs and MPs. From the opening presentation of the Secretary of State, we heard in what way and what everything is planned to be arranged or determined by the proposed final proposal of the law so that I would not repeat it all together, but only pointed out the important elements and of course the importance of the Vukovar hospital, both in the war and in the postwar period. The National Memorial Hospital Vukovar is of special importance and interest to the Republic of Croatia and will represent a place of marking of a special homeland pitet, where a memorial and educational activity with the purpose of promoting the value of the Homeland War is carried out in addition to health activities. I believe that it is not particularly important to point out that the Vukovar hospital is the only health institution that we can safely say is deeply etched into the collective consciousness of the Croatian people. The hospital was the one who shared the fate of the city of Vukovar, ruthlessly destroyed by enemy missiles. I'm not sure there's an example of a hospital that lasted in the environment for almost 90 days while 700 missiles fell on it every day. In these conditions, doctors and staff at the Vukovar hospital have shown the highest possible level of courage, humanity, and patriotism. This hospital best describes what was the Homeland War and what kind of people we are, describes Christian, European, civilization values that we did not leave even when cruelty and evil took away everything we had. The symbol of a werewolf hospital is a symbol of unremembered humanism that we will pass on to younger generations and through educational activities foreseen by this law, but also provided for by the Law on the Declaration of Vukovar by the place of a special homeland petite. So let me once again from this place of the High House to them, to the workers of the Vukovar hospital, to give thanks for the immeasurable contribution to the Homeland War, because they were the ones who saved lives, treated, nursed the wounded and the sick, provided all kinds of support, from moral, psychological to human, and it is no doubt that they also affected the morals of both defenders and civilians by their actions. The Vukovar hospital will forever be remembered for its exceptional heroism and the ability of all its employees. In this House of Commons, you can and should hear different opinions, quality criticism, but I find the national consensus on the meaning of the Vukovar symbols and the Vukovar hospital necessary. He defines the Homeland War, Croats as a people, the start of statehood and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia. He defines victory good over evil. No law can achieve a finality in solving all the problems we face in Vukovar, but there should be steps on that path. They need to show direction for further action. Following all of this, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186912	Thank you very much. The next club is the GLAS representative on behalf of which the respected representative, Nada Turina-Đuric, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186913	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the law, the bill of law is relatively short, but I think it should be repeated in the short lines why this law is passed or what its basic purposes are, and at the beginning, immediately say that it might actually be very difficult for anyone to object to taking away this right that the government is now giving it, or that hospital will be declared a hospital of de facto state, priority state importance and the state will take over or the government will take over the founding rights over that hospital. This thing that most of us certainly wouldn't be against, since we know that our hospital system, or the general hospital system in the Republic of Croatia, mostly has problems and, above all, financial problems, and then, of course, all the other problems that the labour market has with us, which is a lack of labour, a lack of professional workers in this case, doctors and everything else, health debts and everything else that follows this big and important system. So this law only changes the most important thing that changes in reality, which is that the founder becomes the Republic of Croatia. We want to draw the public's attention because somehow he stays in the air, which would mean, which means the founder, so that people can be clearer. So the founder on behalf of that institution takes all responsibility for the functioning of that facility. It also means organisational, but also financial, which means that despite the fact that it covers a relatively small space and a relatively small number of inhabitants will have the status of clinical hospital centres in the Republic of Croatia. The State will be the founder responsible for its operations and will, of course, be in charge of, except that it is in charge of their operation to cover the potential debts resulting from that operation. Now, we come to regrettably, although the secretary of state said that he would not want this debate to turn into a debate, however, the debate on anything in health cannot escape the problem that we in health care did not do what we were supposed to do or what some promised four, some 10, some 15 years ago. So we in health care simply didn't do what needs to be done in every system, which is to try to make it sustainable. So we know what our population numbers are, we know about, not about, but we know exactly what our population density is. We have defined ourselves for one model, i.e. we have inherited a good model of healthcare that guarantees the availability of health and health to every resident of the Republic of Croatia. The health care term in the Republic of Croatia is free of charge although of course it is not because we all stand out for health services, but it is available and in that sense it is also free of charge as people and citizens experience it and should be placed in some sustainable proportions. We know, of course, that the Republic of Croatia is experiencing a very bad demographic trend that we do not elaborate it here now. We are all aware of the decline in the number of inhabitants, especially the fact that from some rural parts of the Republic of Croatia in the past few years there has been significant eviction of people and that these systems are very expensive systems such as healthcare simply face major problems primarily of financial nature and then all of what I have said both human and all the others who follow such systems. Are we going to solve the essence of the problem with the change of founders? I don't think so. We at the Vosa Club think that we will not, except that we will only change for one hospital of 20 general hospitals in the Republic of Croatia the situation that it will be part of the state budget and that it will in some way be particularly protected against the CNS, Paki, Sisak, and that I do not now list all other general hospitals in the Republic of Croatia. The current debt so that at least something can be read from public information funds and on the general hospital pages, which the health ministry owes this hospital is moving somewhere between 150 million kuna and 200 million kuna. It is very difficult to determine exactly because it is a few years back and it is difficult to know exactly what is a loss on today or a long hospital. But in any case, about 150 million kuna is a debt. It is for one Vukovar, for one Vukovar-Srijem County, which belongs to the ranks of those less developed in the Republic of Croatia. This is certainly a significant amount that the county, although required by law so far, could not or could not have resolved in the future. And with this decision, that is, by making this law, it will be settled. It will be resolved because most or probably all will be covered and covered in the way it is covered and according to clinical hospital centres, or the state will be in charge of it. Are we going to solve a fundamental problem? We won't. What about the other county hospitals? We don't know. This government didn't come before this Assembly with a health reform. It's certainly not a simple reform. It's not simple procedures. But to show some hospitals in the Republic of Croatia, just before I accidentally saw on one program a contribution to a county hospital, this reminded me because a colleague had just entered the assembly, a county hospital had in some 12 months provided 8 new specialists who had come to work in that hospital because that hospital was financially well standing after she had managed to settle the debt back. It means that some can and some try, and some wait for their problems to be solved by someone else. So I can't get the impression that here we have today morning, or today, we have two laws about Vukovar and that, or about the themes from Vukovar or about Vukovar, here in this case about the Vukovar hospital that somehow all this is not now in some context of internal elections in the ruling party, so somehow it wants to show who's more or more if he hasn't done it for Vukovar. And as far as I know, the mayor of Vukovar is in this battle for supremacy in the ruling party, so I guess the ruling party headed by its current Prime Minister and the president of the party through the proposals of this law and discussion in the Assembly wants to show that he is achieving some of the policies and goals towards Vukovar that she has set for herself, has set quite high goals, but these two laws that we are talking about today will unfortunately not significantly improve the situation of things in their city, nor will their standard of life be significantly better than I say some of the administration's problems in this particular case of this law will be resolved. Yes, in addition to changing the name of the hospital, the administrative council will be changed, the temporary acting director of the hospital will be discussed in the next few months likely competition for new directors, and in the next budget I suppose the government will be expected to see financial resources to address the hospital's dues. It is one thing to see and what is evident in this bill and we will support it. But we also ask you with full right, where are the proposals for solutions for all 19 other at least county general hospitals in the Republic of Croatia that have systemic problems in their functioning or have debts stemming from system, bad system solutions and not making adequate decisions in the health care system, which are in any case some cuts that we will have to, which one government will in some future simply have to make. I'm not saying that this situation has to be broken at Vukovar Hospital, but that this system should definitely be analysed in some kind of analysis that will give us a sustainability solution, that's something that's ahead of us, not just probably in healthcare, but in all spheres. We are getting smaller, as I said the demographic picture is getting worse, children are getting smaller, people are moving out of rural areas, we know what is going on with hospitals, that more serious procedures and more serious diseases are being solved de facto in a single hospital in the Republic of Croatia, we know which is all together, that even from large centres such as KBC Osijek, Rijeka, Split do not do procedures, do not process patients but do so in Zagreb. There will be some decisions that will not be most popular, but should be seen what is in the best interest of patients and all citizens living throughout Croatia so that they can get the most quality and accessible health care service. Don't be angry that I went a little off this subject, but she's just being forced because there's a decision that was ultimately positive could have been made maybe two, three or four years ago when you came to power. Why right now, only you know it or those who are your superiors, maybe you don't. In any case, our health is not in a good situation, our losses are also conjecture in the overall health rate of 5 to 7 billion, maybe I'm talking too much right now, but it's really not easy to get quality data in real time, or, say, today. So I hope it will be soon if nothing after the election of the topics in this assembly will be the overall health system and some proposal for a too many solutions to solve these dubiosis, real dubiosis and to solve real problems, and not that here, regardless of whether it's an election within the parties, whether it's local or parliamentary elections, it's always some of the choices, and then always these laws and such proposals can unfortunately be put into that context, and that's not good, and that GLAS as a party does not support it. But in this case we will support that at least this city hero, the citizens of Vukovar, are actually trying to help. It may also come from this law today that some quality solutions that will indeed be content and that will really contribute to the quality of health care in that area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186914	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be that of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Ivica Misic will speak. I ask all colleagues and colleagues to stick to the subject, and this is the proposal for a law on the transfer of founding rights to the General County Hospital of Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186915	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today I was talking about Vukovar, and I will briefly say something about Vukovar Hospital as a symbol of one great in the Homeland War, the hospital is today I could say a monument to Croatia, a monument to Croatian defenders who are being treated there. Of course, all the doctors and sisters who stayed in the Homeland War and helped our heroes and they are heroes themselves, and they should be called because they are thousands and thousands of Croats or any injured people saved. We know that health care is in big trouble today, that we have losses, that it's hard to work it out, but this hospital deserves it. I think Croatia has done this well, this law is certainly good to Vukovar, unfortunately not before. Of course, the county will be a little freed from some investment in that hospital, although already the Croatian state towards Vukovar has had to admit in terms of building a lot, and this government is trying to add some things that might have been long ago. We know that in our Slavonia, looking at the Vinca, the Vukovar, and the Osijek hospital that they are not so far away, that they are relatively close. Today when we're mobile, when we can get to one, the other and the third hospitals, but we need to know how many Slavonias were at the time and what it was all about in Slavonia. This today when the question is about the sustainability of health in us, what we are talking about, the instructions, the magnets, the CTs and all the other instructions that our people of course require sometimes when they don't need to. That's what doctors know best. I hope that the Vukovar Hospital will survive and remain what should be and this confirms one fact that the Croatian State, and even today the Government is thinking about Vukovar and this move is certainly good and should be welcomed. And as for other things, doctors and nurses who work today in Vukovar and who are trying to keep that thing, we just have to say thank them and Slavonia finally got something but very little about what she lost by looking at the exiled Croats who are leaving today but we all know that well what happened and how it is. Thank you. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186916	Thank you. The next is the SDP representative's club on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186917	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here is Vice-President Zeljko Reiner, Secretary of State Zeljko Plazonic and I, MP Zeljko Jovanovic. The SDP representative club without any dilemma will support this legislative proposal because it is clear that the National Memorial Hospital of Vukovar deserves it. I will only in one quote remind you of the importance of this hospital. War director of Vukovar Hospital Dr. Vesna Bosanac said among other things: “The Vukovar hospital was a haven for all those who needed it regardless of their national and religious status just as a lighthouse in severe war casualties and darkness that prevailed over Vukovar in the summer and autumn of 91. There was hope that evil could be overcome by good, that a weapon, a jag, and a gunpowder could be resisted by the hand of help. It was also a light for the survival of the Croatian people and of all citizens of the City of Vukovar because evil must be passed, and humanity and humanity remain forever." This eternal dimension of the importance of Vukovar Hospital is also confirmed by this legislative proposal, which adds to the basic role of the hospital to meet the needs of the Vukovar-Srijem County to emphasize its memory and educational importance of the hospital. What has been highlighted so far in the debates, and one of the reasons for this law is to ensure financial sustainability that the Vukovar-Srijem County is unable to provide. However, as responsible representatives, we must point out health problems in the entire hospital account for about 45% of HZZO expenditure. The incomes from HZZO account for about 77% of the hospital's income. 90% of hospital payments through the so-called so-called. Monthly limits have lasted since 1997, which is not a good way to ensure hospital financial sustainability. Hospitals, for example, which provide more services to patients than the limit amount will be suspended, and hospitals that process less will still get their limits in order to cover at least fixed costs. This kind of system clearly promotes inefficiencies, and ultimately most hospitals create additional debts. Within Croatian public health obligations, the hospital sector’s obligations are constantly the largest part of which is the majority of its obligations to drug suppliers, the consumer medical material currently available to me at the moment, according to the data that I have reached 5 billion kuna. A new debt amounting to $140 million per month is created and this creates problems that will prevent the implementation of this law in Vukovar and that will not ensure what is the objective of this law, which is that the state will enable the financial sustainability of the operation of Vukovar Hospital. Therefore, a complete reform of the health system is needed, in particular ensuring financial sustainability that will then allow the Vukovar hospital, the National Memorial hospital can indeed operate without worry about the financial stability of that hospital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186918	We move to an individual debate and the first one will speak, he should speak to a respected colleague, Bozo Ljubic. He's gone, so he's losing his right to argue. So the next one will be spoken by a respected colleague, Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186919	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The reason why the General County Hospital of Vukovar and the Hospital of Croatian Veterans would become the National Memorial Hospital of Vukovar. The chronology of events that answer this question. On May 2, 91, the Emergency Service of the Vukovar Medical Centre was involved in the care of wounded people in the village of Borovo, while war surgery and an anti-atomic shelter were formed during July. The first grenades began to fall in the hospital on August 15, 91, and on August 24, 91, the hospital was targeted by a plane attack. By November 20, 91, the hospital took care of 4000 wounded, of which 2,000 250 were subjected after complex injuries to longer-term surgery. About 700 grenades fell to the hospital every day. Doctors and other staff worked day and night under very difficult conditions, and without enough medication, sanitary material, electricity, food and water. After November 20, 91, 200 wounded and patients were taken and executed in Ovcara, including 18 hospital employees. Out of a thousand 40 employees at the Vukovar Medical Center before the Homeland War, 350 employees remained at the hospital until the end of the war. After the occupation, most of the doctors and staff of Serbian nationality remained in Vukovar because logically by them Vukovar was then released, while 250 workers were exiled after torture into free parts of the Republic of Croatia. In the process of peaceful reintegration on July 24, '97. starts with the reintegration of the hospital into the Republic of Croatia's healthcare system. So it's about a hospital that shared the fate of the city of Vukovar, and it's the most severe hospital in the Homeland War, although it's mentioned that other hospitals have died, it's logical, but Vukovar is the most. You could see and experience the picture of Vukovar and your injuries in Vukovar in the film “Harrison’s Flowers”. In view of the above mentioned County Assembly of Vukovar-Srijem County on 28 May 19. It concluded that the Ministry of Health is proposing to launch an initiative towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia to decide on a decision to take founding rights over the General County Hospital Vukovar and the Croatian Veterans Hospital by the Republic of Croatia. Changes in status that the General County Hospital of Vukovar and the Croatian Veterans Hospital would become the National Memorial Hospital of Vukovar, and the founding rights over the facility would be assumed by the Republic of Croatia, starting with the memorial educational importance of this hospital that stems from its history in the Homeland War. Given the memory educational importance of the hospital, particular attention should be paid to its sustainability, which includes, of course, financial sustainability. According to the Health Protection Act, founder of the General County Hospital Vukovar and the Croatian Veterans Hospital is Vukovar-Srijem County, which, due to the financial capacity of its budget, is unable to meet the obligations arising from the operation of the hospital in a timely manner, and the hospital is currently facing major problems of unsettled obligations. By taking over the founding rights, the Republic of Croatia will also take over the financing of this hospital, which should contribute in the future to a stable business of the hospital, and the implementation of joint procurement procedures to achieve the effectiveness and standardisation of the supply of medicinal products and medical and other materials, significant savings and rationalisation of financial operations are expected in the long term. The second article of this law states that the General County Hospital of Vukovar and the Croatian Veterans Hospital continue to work as the National Memorial Hospital of Vukovar on the day of entry into force of this law. It is also found that the founder of the National Memorial Hospital Vukovar Republic, the rights and duties of founders, on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, is carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Ministry of Health. Therefore, the hospital is expected to operate in a sustainable manner by appointing a new board of directors and a temporary director. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186920	Thank you very much and the last individual debate is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186921	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, on behalf of the club, I also pointed out that I absolutely support this law, however, that as responsible politicians we must also point out what is threatening to implement this law. Here we have also heard from colleagues from Kirin that, where they can practically continue their discussion, it is argued that by taking over the founding rights of the Republic of Croatia will also be taken over by financing this hospital, which should contribute to a stable business of the hospital in the future, while implementing joint procurement procedures to achieve the effectiveness and standardisation of the supply of medicinal products and medical other materials is expected in the long term to make significant savings and rationalisation of financial operations. This would be a very nice explanation if such a situation were in the Republic of Croatia in the hospital health system, and it is completely different. So, I have to say it just for all the employees at Vukovar Hospital and the citizens who are gravitating at that hospital that our health care is now without adequate reform, which unless it comes soon, in front of bankruptcy. See, at the end of 2015, health obligations amounted to about 2.5 billion kuna, of which the hospital sector was about 2 billion kuna. 4 g. Later, the obligations of the hospital sector alone amount to nearly 5 billion kuna and account for 99% of all obligations of public health institutions in the Republic of Croatia. In view of the fact that during 2017 and 2018 the state budget, on the top of HZZO's debt revenues, hospitals have been additionally paid close to 2 billion kuna, this means that they have passed almost 4 years. Public hospitals in the Republic of Croatia created an average of incredible 90 million kunas of new debt every month. It is even worse that this trend is speeding up, so the Croatian paradox in health financing is that we never have more money at our disposal, and that the debts are constantly growing and currently at the monthly level are 145 million kuna despite the fact that we had an incredible 26 billion kuna in the last year, and this amount is approaching 28 billion. We have recently had changes in collective health contracts, an increase in addition by 7%, which will really significantly increase employees' salaries, but will significantly increase the expenditure of public health institutions, so we can expect that growth in the commitments will only be greater. All of this, therefore, is inevitably reflected in the availability and quality of healthcare that more and more in charge of healthcare institutions are trying to provide to our citizens, and this is becoming increasingly difficult. With the growing debt issue of time when suppliers will again decide on measures of forced collection for all hospitals, as well as for the hospital in Vukovar. Therefore, the overload of our healthcare professionals under such working conditions naturally suits the exodus in all parts of the system. Therefore, we can rightly conclude that unless something urgent changes Croatian health care is going towards total destruction. And therefore, Mr. Secretary of State, we really expect you, the new minister, to present to the Croatian public as soon as possible how he intends to ensure the financial sustainability of the health system that healthcare is solid, comprehensive and accessible to everyone equally, easily and quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186922	On behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Zeljko Plazonic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186923	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I only reported for one thing, and that is not to conclude this conversation on this agenda point with only the financial status of the Vukovar hospital or the financial state of Croatian health. First of all, we in Croatian health have institutions that do positive business, they are not as rare as they are thought at first sight, but in these circumstances and in these frameworks and in financial opportunities they operate without generating losses. We often forget these institutions because they are not of our interest to the public, to communicate publicly about the problems we have in health care. That's the first thing. Another thing, if we're talking about Vukovar Hospital and its new founder, and that's the government of the Republic of Croatia, I can see by her name that no one here today mentioned that segment of her new name, and that's that memorial hospital. First of all, we need to know, and colleagues who are no longer here Strenja mentioned one book by one author of Mr. Lucic who wrote Vukovar Hospital during that period, it is a unique world example of aggression on one by all international laws protected institution. This has never happened in mankind's history, and that's why this memorialism is hers and how significant it is. Especially since there is also an area in the basement that has been adapted and arranged together with dolls that show under what circumstances, in what frameworks, and in what circumstances the hospital has acted during the most severe attacks during the war. What is also very, very important to say for this period was the hospital that treated all the citizens who remained in Vukovar regardless of their diversity that I am not talking about it now, as today this hospital is the largest place in the city of Vukovar where there is an integral one way of understanding of all the people of Vukovar and where when they come to the hospital they are all practically equal without any significant differentiation. At this point, we have to continue to do our policy, and whether we as a state will make it financially stable and self-sustainable, I think we will only then have to make one important first I would say turn in our everyday understanding of the health system, which is so-called. financial discipline. And if we discipline ourselves and learn from those institutions that do work positively today, then all our hospitals will, a little by little, become financially self-sustainable, and in this way we will no longer generate debts, but on the methodology of it, I would like to have one if we should also have a thematic session of this assembly where we can take a whole series of proposals, data and ways in which it is possible to debate and hear all your proposals that we dearly accept and respect from the Ministry. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186924	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186925	Final proposal of the Law on the transfer of founding rights to the General County Hospital Vukovar and the Hospital of Croatian Veterans to the Republic of Croatia, second reading, no. 809. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of this law, please vote. I find that most of the 117 votes for and 2 abstentions have been passed the Law on the transfer of founding rights over the General County Hospital Vukovar and the Hospital of Croatian Veterans to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186926	So now we go to the next point is: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High School, first reading, P.Z. Number 425 Proposer is MOST Independent Lists. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law when discussing this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The government has delivered its opinion. If the motionary wants to give an additional explanation, and I'm sorry, I didn't see here the esteemed representative raised her hand, please welcome your colleague, Glasovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186927	I am Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the SDP Club, I ask you to grant us a party to consult on this law, but also on the ignoring of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so this is not the first law on which we here have no representative of the Government in order to in some way through our participation in the debate, but also an indication of, on the proposed proposal of the law, explain his position so that MPs can get as clear as possible, as clear a picture of how to be set up under this law. I know that government members have a lot of obligations, but no one can convince me that they can organise themselves in such a way as to send at least one of their representatives here to be that watch, two of us, participates in the debate, or at least hears what we want to tell him. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186928	Thank you very much. Of course I'm going to take a break, but I have to say that it's not necessary for a government official to be here when the promoter isn't. You know that, but good. This one, of course, I'll give you a break, and I know the reason you asked for a break, so I'll see you at 15:30. It's called solidarity of the opposition, isn't it? It's 3:21 p.m. We move on to the next point, as I have said, the draft law amending the Law on Education and Education at primary and secondary school. [[CONTINUATION OF THE MEETING IN 15.31 HOURS]] Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Representative Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186930	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So before us is a tiny little change in the Law of Education that we wanted in some way to improve the material rights of teachers and professors and to show that we somehow force the Government to really respect jobs that are not their primary job, which is teaching and raising children. So, first of all, it should be taken into account that when we passed this law, we were guided by our own concrete practice and especially by me who worked at school, and I see that this has not changed, but rather by the work done by teachers and teachers, and not only by teachers and teachers, but also by secretaries and accountants, and recently we have learned other staff such as maids who are clean surfaces of the square that they do not actually have to clean, we have made sure that they are not paid for these jobs very often or are not adequately paid. So from this famous lumen that professors have to fill after their working day and which actually teachers and teachers at that big protest in Ban Jelačić Square have put down their thumbs to some classwork, to work on the administration, to jobs which... now wants to put more burden on them, which is about pedagogical measures, so for a number of jobs teachers and professors in their business are not paid, and for some of these things the ministry is encouraging them to single out their own resources. We also wanted to bring this amendment to the law and put into equal rights teachers and teachers with those who work in the ministries. And it should be taken into account that Education Minister Blaženko Divjak has raised his hand in government orderly, according to me, a good amendment to the law, that people working in ministries are working on EU projects to increase their base by up to 30%. We think that people who work in ministries and those who work in schools should be in the same position because we are a country where we swear we are a country of equal rights, equal obligations, and we wanted to equalise teachers and teachers with this amendment, and I repeat again both secretaries and accountants with ministry employees. So what do we propose with this law? It is proposed that workers of school institutions, whether working in the educational process, any other workers working on projects financed from the funds and from the EU programme of the financial mechanism of the European Economic Area from 2014 to 2021 and the Norwegian financial mechanism from 2014 to 2021, if paid and financed by the project are entitled to increase the coefficients of job complexity up to 30%, so up to 30%, not 30% but 30%. In order to ensure additional engagement, which depends on the realisation and withdrawal of funds from eu funds that carry out demanding tasks for regular jobs in the implementation of the project, they do not have the right to do so. In order to motivate the workers of the school institution working on technical and professional preparation and development of the project, it is proposed to increase the coefficients of complexity of work to a certain percentage during its implementation period, so only during its implementation period, not before, not later, but after, and depending on the involvement of the employees on the project in which the head or director would make a decision. After completion of the project, an employee would no longer have the right to do so. So we took into account that such projects that we understand are not too much, they will not require any funding from the state budget, but one message would be sent to teachers and teachers to apply more to these projects, and in particular that we have included people who can practically not reduce the norm as in this case how the legal changes went, and these are secretaries and accountants. They practically have to do their full-time work, and they're in our experience, and they're also people who work in schools on these projects. The objective of the proposed amendment is to promote as high-quality engagement as well as the implementation of the project itself in all educational and educational institutions, to make better use of financial resources from European funds in the end should lead to the coherence of education programmes with the needs of the labour market. And we keep swearing that our education system should be consistent with the labour markets. With everything, it is necessary to regulate the implementation of jobs on EU projects involving school institutions, which are provided with money for wages, with the contribution of employers. So we consider this statement not a great revolution, we believe that teachers and teachers deserve it at the moment when the government is solemnly boasting that their salaries have grown enormously, at the moment we have no view of the Educational Inspection Regulation, and they were promised, at the moment when teachers still have to meet and deal with the lumen they really don't have any purpose, we think that this legal change is good. Unfortunately, the government is gone, we wanted to work this out in dialogue, if there are any problems and if there's something that we haven't... we've been clear about. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, so here we want this to be discussed to be constructive and I want to accept all constructive criticism to come to the right solution. [[Intruder Reiner: Excuse me, the Government's representative is here.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186931	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Chikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186932	Dear colleague of Sladolev's. I'm interested in the law itself, do you think that those employees who work and other educational staff in the education system should have the same increase as civil servants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186933	Honorable representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186934	Of course we do. So the minister raised her hand to the government for this increase for civil servants, and I now do not understand why she does not want to accept this proposal when her portfolio is just teachers and teachers. So she's primarily responsible for this resort, not for state officials in the ministries, and apparently her teachers and teachers were the last holes in the play, besides that she showed it at the time of the strike.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186935	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. I am opening the debate, so the first on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge will speak to the respected representative Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186936	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Science and Education, respected colleagues and colleagues. We have addressed a proposal for amendments to the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education, which was adopted in 7 months 2018, part of the amendment proposed by this law concerns those educational staff and other staff, means administratively and similarly that their basis increases by 30% as adopted by the Government's regulation on the complexity of business in August 2018. I have asked several parliamentary questions over the year, and I have received the answer that a number of EU-funded projects are actually educational workers and other people are not entitled to fair compensation. Let's say today if you know certain projects are implemented for school food insurance according to the school fruit scheme and it is responsible from Minister Divjak's portfolio that actually these employees who count these yogurts and children and work and all lists do not have the right to increase from 30%, from 10% to 30% as per the legislative proposal. Also in a number of other projects, it didn't happen, and these changes as they stand now and if someone has a salary, I'll explain it plastically, 6,000 kunas and works on some project 10%, it has the right to increase from 10 to 30% means a maximum of 180 kuna. In August 2018, all ministers, the entire government including the resolution minister, voted that all those ministry officials working on project implementation actually have an increase in the 10% to 30% coefficient, but the coefficient means the full salary. So if someone has 6,000 kunas, they pay him 30% up, that's 1,800 kuna, and that person has 7,800 kunas. I don't know why they wouldn't take advantage of the possibility of actually paying our people who are working on projects to increase their base? Because how is this now proposed by law? For example. You are a professor who wants to participate in a project 30%, you have to participate in this project 30% of your 30 percent working time to give to someone else. Now who are you gonna give it to? Well, new young people, new employees. And we will create an army of young people who will catch up to the city of Zagreb, all over the country of someone's 10, 20, 30% at 12, 15, 18 months and then get out of it. And when will your youngsters start a family, when will they get a contract at a certain point? Would it not be better for those who do so in their working hours, who are already committed to the eu project to be paid in full and then to pay the full amount of wages, the entire gross two costs being co-financed by the EU? So we didn't suggest anything here that doesn't already exist, but what's not done. In this way we would get a better system and get a satisfied worker. We want these funds from eu funds used and used by our professors, administrative staff, accounting workers, to be rewarded. And then this project takes 15 months and the project ends, all reports remain, everything remains, and if they have a fee if they worked 30%, I don't know they got 180 kunas. So who's going to push the European administration for that amount? It's just not motivated enough. And that's how the government showed it. Finally, I was myself in the EU fund system as deputy minister of regional development and European funds, I am responsible for saying from this place that all ministry employees have increased coefficients and that is, by the regulation of 30%, the commissioners have 10%. The salaries of the head of the sector are about 10-11000 kuna depending on how much the person has a job experience and how much tax relief he has. So I'm talking about net pay. And that salary goes 10% up, and all the other officials who are in the seats of specialists, department heads and so on, and the EU project's work has a 30% increase. And now why don't we make it possible for the professor of mathematics, English, and that means that he gets paid means 30%, the man keeps his captains and everything until now, and not that we're getting old means again. And what's going on? According to the current law, it's supposed to mean a project team, and what someone says I won't be a member of the project team anymore, so automatically that person who's on the exchange has no job anymore. We've made a mess. And any head of the facility that's even worse, can actually say and I like this one or I don't like this one, this one would want to move forward, this one wouldn't want to, so there's no order. Someone will be approved by the head of the facility to have two projects, someone to have a reference, so three will be used in the system of progress. So we want to ensure with this that we use good European funds, that we have a responsible person for the entire duration of the project, that this benefit is 30% in, that the coefficient itself increases and that this person is not then, for example, a professor of English but that in the regulation on complexity of jobs means a professor of English on the EU project. And he goes to it and the director makes a decision and he says with the start date team and the team will actually become a team, he will get a new coefficient and he will carry out the project for 12, 15, 24 months. Once again, funding means that part of the European project must be provided for its salary. So, let's simplify, the person is interested in participating in the EU project, the director makes, the head of the institution makes a decision, okay you can report the project, the person is appointed, the moment the project starts, the funds for this increase are provided for in the EU project 85%, 15% are foreseen from the national budget or through co-financing. We know that public officials' salaries can be used as co-financing. And most often in the period from 2007 to 2013 they were used as well. I asked a few questions today, so these provisions of the law aren't realized because people don't really want to use it. Because you're taking on a huge administrative burden and all for actually increasing the part that you're doing. If you are working 10% on the project, and you have a salary of 6,000 kunas, the increase applies only to those 10% and those 600 kunas, respectively. These changes would ensure that educational staff, administrative staff, accounting are adequately rewarded for their work. And imagine then the accountant has a school fruit scheme, has certain administrative jobs that are her additional jobs, she is no longer an accountant at the moment she is doing these projects, but is an accounting employee who is on the EU project. And there's a job in the system, and the director makes a decision. The moment the project is gone, it returns to its previous workplace. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186937	The next is the HDS representative club, the HDZ pardon, on behalf of which the respected representative Marija Mackovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186938	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives and representatives and here is a representative, representative of the competent ministry, and I will address the HDZ on behalf of the club as I have also announced myself with a few words regarding the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High School, the Proposer of the Most Independent Lists. On 30 August 2018, the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. The draft law shall propose to amend the provision of Article 9a. point (a) is replaced by the following: The Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools in such a way as to prescribe that workers of a school institution working on a project means members of a project team financed by EU funds and programmes of the financial mechanism of the European Economic Area for the period 2014. - 2021 and the Norwegian Financial Mechanism during the same period, if the salary is financed from the project that during the duration of the project they have the right to increase the coefficient of complexity of jobs up to 30%. The percentage of the increase in the coefficient of complexity of the business on the EU project or EU funds is determined by the head of the body, that is the proposal of the applicant. This proposal for a law in question does not comply with the other provisions of Article 99. Law on education and education, which is to regulate and finance businesses related to the EU project or EU funds. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on education and education formulated by providing them with a way of working and financing jobs on EU projects or EU funds, the bill extends project sources that would imply an increase in coefficients on projects that are not EU projects or EU funds. Furthermore, the bill prescribes that the percentage of the increase in the coefficient of complexity of the business determines the head of the body. In view of the fact that the Law on Education and Education does not know, nor does it define the concept of the Head of the Body, it is not clear whether it is the head of a school institution which, in each individual case, will determine the amount of compensation, or whether it is a resolution minister, which will, in particular, regulate each project or is expected that the minister determines the percentage of the increase in the complexity of the work. In addition, it is unclear how the head of the body would have the right to decide on the increase in the coefficients and the type of decision, and whether it could decide to increase the coefficients according to the project holder's proposal or might decide to increase the coefficients in the amount different from the one proposed in which case the question of which criteria and in which procedure you have discussed is raised. Also, by unaccompanied determination of the coefficient increase of up to 30%, a discretionary decision is introduced that can have potentially discriminatory effects or disrupt pay ratios for the performance of work according to the principle of equal pay for equal work or work of equal value, and to a greater extent disrupt the wage ratio according to the Labour Name Regulation and the Coefficients of Public Service jobs. Furthermore, the duration of the increase in the coefficient or pay is unclear. In fact, by prescribing that workers of the school institution have the right to increase the coefficients during the duration of the project, it would be possible for a person who would no longer be engaged or would no longer work on the project and continues to have the right to increase the coefficient for the whole duration of the project, therefore, even if the person stopped working on the project for example. I'll say, here's what you said from the practice of a certain thing because we're doing several European projects. It is known that when a project is run for a particular EU Fund it is precisely defined almost everything related to a project that is wanted to run and usually by instructions that have been published almost always for at least 3 months or sometimes less, before the application is received, so it is precisely defined the amount to which the project can be written, exactly how much participation in this project will relate to the project itself, and what amount will apply to those who carry out the project, exactly written with the type and category of those who do so and to the percentage of the project. So, the value of the project is set, I don't know, 7 million, but it is also put that the costs of those working on the project can be as much as the total project that is being run for. So, exactly the length of each participant's length in the process of the name and last name as you said here, the project has to write exactly who will work on the project, which will work for each of them precisely to produce their lists and their gross wages when, when the project comes into processing. So, when writing a project, you need to know exactly what is written, how many people will participate in the project, how long the project will last, and when the project completes the possible visibility of the project, whether someone will stay on the project longer for the sake of the visibility of the project, to complete the project. So, no one is defending, although EU funding needs to be used, the project needs to be well designed before that, to write down everything possible and impossible in this project, means to well design it because there are cases to write a project, someone else writes for you, you are first and eventually found that more could be used, but we have not had enough experience specifically for some particular project. With regard to the basis of the calculation of salary increases, we note that, in accordance with the applicable provisions of Article. 92. The law on education and education increases 30% and thus pays that part of the salary relating to concrete work on the project. So the salary has been increased by a relatively increased work engagement on the project. The draft law prescribes an increase in the coefficient for the total salary of workers regardless of the quantitative share of work on the project, which is disproportionate and therefore unacceptable. Following all of the above, the HDZ Representatives Club considers that the solutions set out in the draft law are not justified, and the HDZ Club will not support the draft law supplementing the Law on Education and Education in the primary and secondary schools of the promoters of the Independent Lists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186939	The next Club of Representatives is the GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Nada Turina Đuric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186940	Mr. Vice President, ma'am. representatives of the ministry, proposings, colleagues and colleagues. So, in principle speaking, the proposal goes in the right direction, means that the means of obtaining projects first and foremost through the projects of the European Funds are used in such a way that those who run, run first and then implement them, most often it is the same and the same, the same persons are usually concerned, that their work is valued, that their work from the project itself, the implementation of the projects or the funds obtained can be financed, that is, your proposal, your amendments of the law, and that is absolutely something that needs to be supported. What we're not up to the moment here is this debate, and maybe you can see from the government's explanation, I don't see it, from what my colleague Sladolev said...... and what my colleague Chikotic said on behalf of the Mosta Club, they claim it is possible to do just through this proposal to raise the coefficients by 30%. I'm not personally sure that's the case. In fact, what's only with this, I agree with the discussion of my HDZ colleague is that when the project is registered then a professional task force is applied and hired, let's say, and in a certain percentage, it is known exactly how much time it takes to engage on a particular project, and then, of course, the means to do so. So if it's just part-time, and it's part-time, it's never one through one, in this case it's not one through one, but it's part-time that's dedicated to this project, then it's logical that contracts are a certain amount, and I think it should go through some kind of project supplement, and not through a coefficient that relates to the total work at school, say, what 10 or 15 or 30% of the working time is this 70% in education or education or that is in class. With this project, the EU has nothing, and you suggest that the coefficient rise for the total working time. I'm not even sure that someone is going to check it out from the European Commission, and if there was an inspection, it would have gone away in the first place, and that means we're kind of cheating on them. If you raise the coefficient for the total de facto working time and for the net salary, and the project is dedicated only to part-time, not the whole. You compared it to the officials, but those employees who work on these projects work all their hours on projects, and in this case teachers do not do all their work hours on projects but only part of it. And logically, they would be rewarded adequately, of course, and the project would ensure that the fair rewards for the part relating to the commitment to work on the European project. I don't know if we understand each other. So we have to isolate that part because otherwise the question is really whether if someone went to control it would approve that the cost is considered a total increase in the coefficient for some average salary of an educational worker. I think you should be careful and check it out. I haven't been able to check it out, if that can be done, we're very supportive. However, I have doubts about whether it can be done, so here's the promoter I ask to prove to me in some way that it would be in accordance with the law, but not only with our laws but also with the procedure of running for projects. Because the projects, we're doing it in a way that she'd say goes by, and basically we're showing things a little bit wrong, so I think that might come back to us as a boomerang in some of the coming times. Of course, if this were accepted, which I don't see is the mood, and I would be willing to accept that people are adequately paid for their engagement and that we would benefit from it because it would certainly benefit us if people felt that they were rewarded adequately for this job and responsibility is ultimately quite large, so we would be very happy to support it. But I'm not sure if what you're suggesting in that way would be the right way. I personally don't see it right. Through some sort of supplement or simply through some amount of project in a contract with a person that, even even one time, it's me but that through coefficients it solves on the entire salary doesn't seem like the right way. I have to have that delay I have no, not because of your ultimate goal is good and your idea is good, but I don't know if you're in those steps to get to that goal if it's all right to be able to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186941	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Sonja Cikotic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186942	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the respected vice president of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the ministry. We already have these projects, and we had them through amendments and additions to the Law on Civil Service, so in the 6th month of 2017 we had amendments and additions to the Law on Civil Servants, this is one proposal that I made while I was in the Ministry of Administration we worked. And what was going on? People could have been named in certain percentages of 20, 30, 50% and couldn't have been when they worked at the ministries, we had a problem with national parks where the project lasted for two years in national parks. And I'm supposed to get a job, I don't know in every national park of two, three people on the project. So far, the Civil Service Act did not provide that a person could be appointed to the project for a certain time, and we went to change it because we did not want one job because of the project to keep that person in the system of state administration or in some other public bodies, such as institutions such as national parks, and then we went to that change. We also went, and the government was in the 8th month of 2018, and the Secretary-General raised her hand for it to all those officers, so you can be on the evaluation, environmental impact assessment, and we know that a lot of construction projects all have to do this and that portfolio at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Energy is very tightly throated with projects, so those people are doing their regular work, but they have 30% increase in salary, and that's their regular job, it has nothing to do with EU jobs. So the system can when it's important for us to set our priorities, and that's how we agree our priorities, that's how we say, yes, the coefficient of complexity for English professor is 1.4, we hope it'll be in wars, right? In wars, for all else, there are more ring payments, meaning 1.4, but if that professor has additional work, meaning on the EU project where it is complex, this work on the EU project increases this complete system means the complexity of his work, he retains, the 1.4 he receives the salary, for example, that coefficient, he is still an English professor with a full hour. But because he was engaged in the EU project, he predicted his salary and said, I will be hired 30%, 10%, 20% on the EU project, its coefficient is increasing for this complexity index. So that's the extra job he's doing, the same way it's done in the ministries, in all 1,500 people in our ministries, on these jobs he's getting paid. The same thing is here, now municipal projects. In Solin, in Split, in the town of Petrinja. All the water workers, they were employed in EU projects and those in the EU project were paid and paid for, they raised the coefficient of complexity of businesses. So they don't do any European work, that's what needs to be demystified, so people don't do European work, we don't have European procedures. The Croatian Parliament, when a new directive comes, when a regulation comes, a government or an HS, we accept it and introduce it into our legislation. We are no longer dealing with EU procurement rules. There's a law on public procurement with us, right? So, nothing these officials do Europeanly, except our people say, you know, he's working on an EU project, so he's still doing what he's doing. That English professor, he's not going to spend, I don't know, something beyond his job description. So he might be holding 10 workshops in English. The math teacher might be doing 10 math quizs. So he's still doing his job. Just do it for the needs of the project. There are numerous projects of cross-border cooperation where we have, say, the equipment of wine cellars for children's practices. These professors of certain workshops and associations and programs, education, training, means he is still doing his profession. So we have a coefficient that the professor works for his normal job, we have a coefficient that the professor does, when it's the complexity of the business because it's necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186943	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives will be that of the SDP, and will be spoken by respected representative Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186944	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor's Secretary of State, Your Honor, Here, it has been years and a half since MOST as a proposing has been referred to the parliamentary procedure of the Bill amending the Law on Education and Education at primary and secondary school, offered in some way, by injustice in the system of public and state administration, which in various ways treats persons who, by their special engagement, are trying to withdraw funds at our disposal in the EU funds and in some way contribute to the processing of the system, investment in education, in those segments for which the state has very often and the strength of the local budget does not have a simple possibility. Now, I support the intensities that people who work in schools on the withdrawal of EU funds are working on projects, adequate and rewards, and we have had this problem, not that problem since yesterday, so, when we entered the EU, we were even in the open air for a while, I will say so, the space, we didn't even have in the Law on Education and Education elements that people who had already engaged in self-initiatively in their schools even in pre-accession funds, who were simply ahead of their time, have such schools that they had really done wonders from their schools long before Croatia officially entered the EU, began seriously coordinated, in some way and strategicly implemented certain projects and who were doing so rightly with their own impulses, wanting to give their students, their community some added value, and simply the state did not recognise them, how that their efforts and the fact that they were often growing in their own way, that they were often in their work, and that they were not very much of doing their work, in the same way, that they were very much, and that they were able to do so in their work, in their work; We appreciate and value what we do for us, but ultimately, for you as a state and I welcome the initiative of the Ministry of Science and Education which in that first step recognized and enabled what we have today in schools, which is that if you have a full captain, regardless of whether you are a teacher, teacher or director, you have the possibility in the extent in which you work on a project to reduce your full hour plus an adequate reward for the part in which you work on the project up to 30% salary, only the part you work on the project, but also during the duration of the project itself and that's something good, because until then we didn't have that, and people were simply doing it, but I repeat, it means in that part of the time you work on, on the project and on the captain, and then it's something that's good because until then we didn't have to increase the Captain, and we're looking at it's kind of money, so we're not really going to be able to go back to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do to do to do amuch , to do a lot to pay the right to pay the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right and the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right ofthe The club's proposal, MOST's Club of Representatives, takes a step, a step further and says that we should valorize teachers, teachers, teachers and other employees, administrative staff, and also directors in a way that we don't pay them in just that part of what Colojlić said, if someone has a salary of 6.000,00 kn, if he works 10% of his working time on the project, it means that he's being reduced in some way by the captain, but 10% of the 6.00 kn is 600,00 kn and he gets this increase defacto from a maximum of 30% on that small, small part only, which is a monthly maximum amount as she said from 180,00 kn which I'm not sure is a very good motivation because in nature these people are much more powerfully engaged than what gives them formal, formal law. There's now a parallel with civil servants, and it's true that in the ministries it seems to me about 5 years ago. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We had people in the ministries, civil servants who had the opportunity to be paid up to 30% more of the basis for working on European, European funds and that is, it's simply true, and this is also true that for the commissioners it was 10, maximum 10, 10%. However, there is also a problem because in fact it is you, which is why the Government went to this Regulation in 2018. where one was paid for, the other was not paid for, and according to the data in early 2019, according to the ministry's replies, with two ministries not responding at the time, and available data on the increase in wages due to EU work projects achieved in early 2019. 126 employees in 5 ministries, and in 2 ministries more than 40 employees have been engaged in EU projects, but their salaries have not been increased, while in other ministries there are no officials who have obtained the right to raise salaries due to work on EU projects. Now, so we've had different practices here. Those officials who had been working on EU projects in their job description could not achieve in their job description in this practice, they did not, they were different practices, they were entitled to increase wages, while in other ministries those who did not... and there was a mass that was still correct and therefore the government went to encourage officials to participate as much as possible in the withdrawal of funds from EU funds, but also in the creation and implementation of projects, the implementation of the projects went to this Regulation from 2018, 18. where we believe that the practice will be evened everywhere. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have a problem and a lot of employees in colleges and assistants and staff, no, the extraordinary staff that has been very engaged in these projects, but their status is also not, is not actually solved and they do not, they are only at the beginning, they even seem to not have this possibility that we now have in the Law on Education for Teachers and, and teachers. I'd like to welcome this initiative. A colleague of Turina Đuric is, she wonders so rhetorically, whether this can be regulated in a way through the coefficients on complexity, complexity of jobs, or perhaps this should be arranged through the supplements. I've been asking myself the same question, too, and I have to admit that at this point I'm more on the other side of the road than to see obstacles to not being treated like that by the example of a system of civil servants. Now, with the systematization here in these finesas to be called, I don't know, a teacher who works in the English language teacher's workplace, as you said, a participant in the project, perhaps it wouldn't be the happiest solution, but it is that, to argue, but I advocate that the same rule be applied to everything, even though this government probably when the demands by teachers arrive, the teachers, teachers of the education system that start to get the rash mild because teachers and teachers have barely fought for that famous word that starts at K, by 6.11%), means they chose to increase the coefficients by 6.11%, meaning they fought, how much, one 6-7, 6 months in a battle that wasn't even harmless, your draft law now requires not 6,11% but up to 30% increase the coefficient of jobs for one part of the teachers and teachers, although it didn't seem to be the same kind of reason that the government that they didn't really hold the same amount. What I may not say is a little bit of trouble, but I would like it to be otherwise formulated in the bill of law means that you have limited yourself to the European Economic Area Financial Mechanism since '14. Until '21. and the Norwegian Financial Mechanism since '14. By '21, that might mean that in the next law we have to change it for the next perspective, I would open it. So because this perspective ends very quickly for us, I'm not saying there's no work here, but we already have to look ahead. Both the fact and the drive of the Republic of Croatia that it is in our interest that, in the next budgetary perspective, this seven-year perspective, we are even more progressive, as I would say more ambitious in operational, operational programming for the education system and that we expect both from those schools and from those teachers and from those teachers and directors who have not yet included in this value added story, contributing added value to their schools to get involved even more. So maybe in this version alone, I wouldn't limit the version of the law to this programming period if we were to look at things completely, strategically long-term and so on. In any case, we support, we support a level playing field for all officials regardless of whether they are civil servants or public servants. The education system, with all due respect to the ministries and the need to include as many employees as possible in creating a precondition for withdrawing EU funds, but I don't think that high schools where the founders of the county are, and even in primary schools where the founding cities are, so their budgets can't satisfy the optimal needs that schools, students, the community has. So we also depend on it, and we have no choice but to use all of this at our disposal in the EU funds and therefore people who are willing to commit to it, I think we should also encourage them to do so, without in any way suffering the foundation of that habitat profession, which is teaching, teaching students and active participation of Croatia better through the education system because teachers are now very often torn apart in this way between the two missions. What is their primary mission, which is why they come into the education system and what makes them, which is what makes them do, and that's what's useless, and there's one space here that we can run certain things that we don't have money for, and we think we should have to give to our students, teachers, eventually to the community and to the state. So I support with these little remarks and finesse.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186945	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Lovrinovic, missing him, losing his right to debate. So the next individual debate will be the respected representative of Mark Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186946	Thank you, Mr. President. So, in an individual debate, I'm just going to repeat why we're going with this amendment to the law. So we think that at times when professors are burdened with jobs for which most of them are not paid, the administrative jobs that the ministry is in fact forced to work, and they are not adequately paid, the lumen for which professors have raised their thumbs at Ban Jelačić Square to leave them with the possibility that this increase in the coefficient to 30% in some way we introduce that standard, and that in some way we also get new young teachers into that dam because we have a deficit of people going into the education system precisely because of the wages, precisely because of the very unclear process of progress. So we think that this, therefore, is our increase in coefficients that would not require a single kuna from the state budget actually improved them to withdraw more, to do so more. And what's most true about this law is that we just crossed it out of the Government Officials Act, that we don't invent hot water, that these are simple things for people who work in the ministry and those who work in schools, we have to be equal and just.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186947	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186948	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have come out with this proposal to amend and supplement the Law in primary and secondary schools, given the fact that more and more needs are needed in education and in other sectors are coming and being addressed through European funds. What we have and how we have been offered a solution is that we have literally copied the text of the Government's regulation on the complexity of the coefficients means employees of the ministries. And now you're saying, your resorient minister has raised her hand by one text of the regulation, when we try to apply it to educators and employee administrative accounting staff say you can't. And I am convinced and I know reliably, because I am getting answers to parliamentary questions that several already employees at the Ministry of Administration are getting a nice addition and are being reported as members of the project team. You're listed here, you say, you wouldn't know, it says, which means during the project, so when it starts, when it's over. I'm saying, the same text is on the government's regulation, and then ask how they handled it in the government's ministries. How did they handle it at the Ministry of Environmental Protection? So the literal text, the literal solution, you don't want to accept it. I've asked you a few times, for a number of projects, whether it's used by accounting staff, who we know are involved in school fruit and vegetable schemes. Someone says you can't. I asked you about other projects. They don't. I would like to know how many employees are in the primary and secondary education system since the entry into force of the July 2018 law, which are the results of this proposed solution. What are the results of these changes? It is important for us to use European funds, it is important for us to invest, and it is important for us that those behind it, be adequately paid, not rewarded. Well, they didn't achieve any special success, so they were the best in gymnastics or the best in the math competition. So these people have taken over their business obligations. They took it upon themselves to have 10 workshops, to have to hold some professional training, to be some extra lecturer, so these people work, I don't know, when they're done with their work, they give something to children from 6 hours to 8 hours or they're on some extracurricular activities. They go to certain seminars in cross-border cooperation. They're responsible for the purchase of certain equipment, so if we're talking about winemakers now, or we're talking about some chefs, so that professor of the same items has to sit down and say, we need a machine like that, we need that kind of equipment, we need that kind of barrel, so he's responsible for that job. We believe that it is not enough what is in the current law and that it is not right that an increase of 30% refers to only part of the time that a particular employee is engaged in. It's unacceptable for us to be, if someone has the salary of 6 thousand kuna and works 10% on the project, at the amount of 600 kuna. Why is it unacceptable for us? Not because we want them to be rewarded now. No, I don't. We want them to receive equal compensation as the civil servants. So we didn't make up anything, because if it were systematized in the Coefficients of Business Regulation, then they would, when they write the project, know that someone has a coefficient of 1.7, they would know what a gross salary is and they would put it into their budgets. From 2007 to 2013, we implemented SIPA projects, no one was paid, but we gave our salaries as co-financing. So I worked for 5 years at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, I was the head of several projects, and on each project I was 10% to get points because they would say, then we have a management team that is part of the institution and that amount and gross 2 wages, was an integral part of co-financing alone. In this way we want employees and employees of projects to get no bigger, not to be rewarded, but to be adequately paid for their work. And you, as a resolute ministry, are obliged to take care of those who are in your system, a resolute minister, for the literal text we put here has raised her hand in August as a member of the government and at the Ministry of Administration and says, a quality management project, they put two employees from the ministries and they receive salaries from that project and they have an increased coefficient and use it. We just want you to make it possible to do the same, because in addition to all the obligations imposed on me through a series of laws, regulations, and the rest for which he was not paid, the professor still went to take responsibility for whether any procurement would be good or would be corrected by some implementing body no. 2 because he predicted I don't know, an inox barrel or something, so he shot someone. That's ungrateful. So we want this person who has had his coefficient for his regular place, if he is still using it, to be involved in an EU project, according to its engagement, and who else than the head, means when writing a project, the head of the institution has to sign the project. Now, you contract who's going to run it, whether it's the minister or the director. So I don't know if the minister, if Ivana Brlic Mažuranić Elementary School in Orahovic, reports the project, is it signed by the minister or head of the institution? He's signing the principal. Well, then that principal knows what he signed because he's fiscally responsible. But we advocate being paid justly and in a way that practice is the same. This is what we want EU funds to be used, not for once talking, here we are, we have now entered CERN, and on the other hand, we have innovation projects and a colleague from the Engineering Faculty tells me, he says, after 15 months I went through the first phase. The men are still waiting for phase four. The first phase is the administrative phase. So our goal is to absorb the funds for which we pay our membership fee, those funds are not free of charge, we are paying membership fees, to be used as soon as possible, and that those who take responsibility for it, to be adequately paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186949	We have a few replicas. The first is the respected representative Mačković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186950	Here's the esteemed MP, so you don't think I'm against it because we're doing a job like this, and we don't know what kind of compensation request we're writing for, and for what project. You keep saying that we need to use EU funds and agree with you, but there are some things you haven't done, I don't think you've made a good distinction. The Ministry delivers you to the teachers monthly how much their gross salary is for other expenses, so that's one source. Secondly, what you're doing on the project has to be good and smart, so for the public procurement of people on the project they get 20,000 kuna, but it has to be entered into the project. So when you write a project it's two types of money. The teacher gets his regular salary on which the ministry won't give him if he worked on the project an additional thing. He'll get an extra from this project that needs to be well written and everything inside put in. So one public procurement, if someone's working on a project costs even 10-15 grand as much as anyone, means I agree with you, but a good project must be well explained and all costs will be put in, everyone will get the money, and can be used and certainly the teachers should be given it because Here, thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186951	Dear representative Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186952	You and I agree now that it means adequate to pay a man because he takes responsibility, and I'm telling you that according to this valid bill, if someone has 6,000 kunas and works 10% on the project for 12 months, it just goes up to this 10% means on those 600 kunas. A man can win 30%, so he can get 180 kuna. And so we want the same way that officials work on these projects in ministries, when they're engaged in projects like experts, who experts, to be the same way. So what's the issue, if that's what the government brought in, then change that regulation. Or say it can't be for teachers and it's different.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186953	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186954	Dear counterpart Cikotic, therefore one of the reasons why little teachers participate in EU projects is that money, but one reason is that they don't really want to leave their class, he loses those 7 hours in the course of those three months and the professor wants the continuity of his work, his class if he is a classmate and doesn't want to lose that class in 3 or 4 months or a year, and this proposal would leave him in his class, so we would have a full class, and his coefficient would increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186955	Dear representative Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186956	That's right, it's not like we have so far, if a professor is engaged 10%, 20, 30% he's leaving his captainship, leaving her for 12 months, at 16, to 24 depends on the duration of the project. At that time, it is not regulated at all by the current law in which they will take care of the replacement and says the director can allow someone to engage 10, 20 or 30% if it means essentially, if it is, if he manages to organise the course. And there's one place for us to make it possible for someone else, one won't make it possible. And also what message is to young professors? Wait for someone's 10, 20 or 30% on 12, 16 or 24 months. In this way, the professor would follow the class especially if he was a teacher or what we would do with those who were employed in the classroom. How they will engage in EU projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186957	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186958	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Cikotic, unfortunately teachers and teachers are always getting used to or are expected to doing something extra, but they are doing it out of enthusiasm and not getting paid for it. Recently, in January, I was busy with e-mails, so the tablets that the ministry obtained that came to schools, teachers and teachers, means 200 tablets per school, for the installation of one tablet was only necessary for the initial setting, for example 20 minutes, after the school of 200 tablets times 20 minutes, 67 hours in the sun, 22 weeks should be able to get those 200 tablets, and the principal can charge someone with an additional IT support job for just 3 hours. So again, they had to train the pills right away so it wouldn't wait until the end of the 3rd year to install actually the pills that someone ordered, gave them and said you're getting along.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186959	Thank you very much. By doing so, I would like the answer of the respected representative Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186960	Dear colleagues of the Voice, that's right. It seems to me that these educators and those administrative accounting staff who also book numerous accounts, keep a number of records, all these jobs are given, they should completely live their entire working life and work on enthusiasm. But all I care about is this enthusiasm, they can't take it to the store, they can't take it to the store, they can't pay the kid's kindergarten, they can't pay for it anywhere else, so the tones can be cashed. We here advocate that that extra job for which these educators or administrative accounting staff are adequately paid, so we don't want rewards, we want adequate pay. And in this case, when a colleague of the Voice mentioned those three hours that the principal can only hire someone. So at this point, the ministry has to start estimating this student's work and restoring their dignity.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186961	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-02-20-0.u186962	Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, first reading, P.Z. Number 425. The proposer is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools is not accepted. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes are 77 for and 19 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
