ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26052	There's another violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Pavić. No, no, no, wait. There's another breach of the Rules of Procedure from before and from before, I said we'd be done before this statement of view so I won't hurt what I said. Well, Mr. Bulj has the right to come and speak in front of the Attorney's Club of Bridges, and then we'll go with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26053	The government of Andrej Plenkovic boasts it has secured 24 billion euros for the next 10 years. This is 2.4 billion euros a year, which means if we cut down on the annual membership fee Croatia is paying in the EU funds, it is below 2 billion euros. So, annually, we get this money from the EU funds, according to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, at the same time, from those you've evicted from the HDZ gentlemen who've damaged the Rules of Procedure and your government send 2 billion euros a year through their parents, families. So they send more evicted people out of Croatia, what social difficulties you have made in Croatia, to get more funds from evicted Croats, working-skilled Croats, from the empty areas of Croats, Croats who made weapons of other people's fields abroad, Croats who made them build ships abroad, and we're a maritime country. 2 billion euros a year, you hear, 2 billion euros. Raise your injuries to the Rules of Procedure. 2 billion euros, and you're still laughing here, you're doing damage to the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure you brought in, you're bringing in. Together, though, with the SDP. To take away the smaller clubs of the right to speak, you have reduced the rights of speech in this House of Representatives. More means of funds, sent by our evicted young Croats, to whom you took away the right to vote because you will not introduce a letter vote electronically. You emptied all of Croatia with your bad policies. And you know it well, that we are the worst in Europe and the EU and in the world for the management of the covid crisis. Most mortals, death by population, the most ill, and you declared in the 5th month victory that you captured the virus, I repeat the code is 120 kilos in it you put on uniforms and Andrej Plenkovic to win the election has declared victory. Look what's going on in Croatia. I don't want to, I'm not pessimistic and for this Christmas I'm sorry that you're making more homeless people, people who won't have a warm meal for Christmas and New Year's, and you're outsmarting some sort of replicas here, post-injuries of the Rules of Procedure... which you brought. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So are you ashamed of the Croatian people? Are you ashamed? Do you really think the people are giving you the benefit of cheating on the people and saying you beat the coronary virus? And your measures should have been brave, if Slovenia had said a moratorium on interest or loans for a year what didn't you bring the tusks? Comes Andrej Plenkovic, used the same Rules of Procedure, so to boast, if 4 were how to boast in the Homeland War, no one in the war would win all of Andrej Plenkovic's hero, hero, would triba General Prkachin go to BiH, to Japan would come. You've made Croatia an empty and empty country. We're talking about our national interests, the IGP announcement, so who's going to answer? The European Commission says we lose 160 to, up to 260 million euros a year, that is 2 billion kuna. If you had declared it in time you would not have lost 40 billion kuna, but you had to betray national interests, you had to arrest, locate, transfer Croatian prominent generals and defenders who defended Croatia. That's what you had to do. That's what Shakespeare ordered you to do. That's what Mesic and Sanader forgot about and Sanader forgot about the one you don't know anymore. You don't have to remember him, you weren't with him. And that's the problem of Croatian society, and you're imposing a breach of the Rules of Procedure, since you have a larger number here, it's possible. And mocking the Croatian people and the Croatian parliament, the Rules of Procedure who took away the rights of speech is more than embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26054	But I've got to hurt the Rules of Procedure, too, and then Mr. Domagoj's story comes first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26055	Thank you. I called about a breach of the Rules of Procedure, sir. 238. I believe that they did not treat their colleagues correctly once, some mentioned, HDZ colleagues mentioned their victories in the elections. The fact that in the last elections of 6 voters in Croatia they have received one vote of 6 with it they have, we see almost absolute power, but it is not victory, it is a pyro victory.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26056	You know it's a replica, right, so it's a reminder. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26057	Art. In 238, a colleague named Bencic did not provide accurate information. Namely, for associations over 2 billion kunas of national funds, 450 million kunas of contracted European funds. I personally sponsored this contest at the initiative of 200 organizations that addressed the government. It's not true to go to the fastest finger if you'll check the quality, it's open competition procedure, 75 points will need. And my personal position I believe will be the competition But if it doesn't end [[/Invader: Thank you, Mr. Pavić.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We'll give, we can give money... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26058	You know that in 238, and generally, the Rules of Procedure are not concerned with the truth or the truth, so I have to give a warning. I'm embarrassed, but I have to give a warning. Mr. Branko Bacic. Ma'am, I'm sorry, Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26059	Thank you. Articles 236 and 237 of Rules of Procedure have been injured. Art. In the first sentence, 236 said that the MP who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure was given up as soon as he asked for it, not when the president decided that he should. Art. The 237th session shall be provided by the Chair. Mr. Radin really isn't going anywhere today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26060	237 for what? What's 237 for? I didn't get you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26061	Because it says that you are responsible for maintaining order at the session, and you have failed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26062	I'm sorry, but I told you to contact the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and you get a warning, of course, because it's not this one, it's not that kind of thing at all, but if you insist on having, you have, you have other mechanisms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26063	Yes, I'm announcing that I'm going to write a complaint.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26064	Thank you very much. Sir, ma'am. It's a ben.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26065	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238, so Mr. Pavic insults when he says we're not talking, so the truth. I must say and repeat now, in the competition of the Civil Society Development Foundation, it is said that it is a competition that is in the moderation of a permanent open call. So everyone who's working on projects and we know something about what the modeality of a permanent open call is, and if you don't report for the depletion of funds after that, you don't actually have any more. And of course they have the advantage of those who report among the first. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]] Don't do this to people. Telling Untruths [[Intruder: Time]] So you were also talking about amounts [[Intruder: Time]] Allocated throughout the ISF, and you didn't talk about what was allocated to the organization of civil society for the covid crisis. [[Intruder: Bencic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26066	Mrs. Devereaux. Bencic, I have to give you two warnings, because I have to give you two notices about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is why, forgive me, two warnings about your replication first, And secondly because after repeated mine, my intervention that time had expired, you moved on as if it hadn't happened. And I'm embarrassed you know, but that's the way it is. Now we're done, taking this stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26078	Thank you very much. This wasn't intentional, it happened by accident, but since I'm reporting from a distance in principle, maybe it's not bad. Therefore, the esteemed vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. It's been out there really long, back in 1990. A good part of us hoped that once we got rid of Yugoslavia, we would also get rid of some of the really bad things that she was carrying with her, such as. a single-party system and a centralised social economy. 30 years later, we see that at least we are only halfway to these goals, the single-party system is officially no longer available, but we have some kind of dominant party that has taken positions far beyond what a political party should take. Her men were deployed along and across all the services in the country from porters to directors. While the economy is no longer a formalised socialist economy, at the same time it has never become truly free of market. Ortac capitalism with too much influence on the country's move to decide on winners and losers of the competition is not what we hoped for. Certainly not what can lead us among successful and developed. Unfortunately, and probably related to these two things, the only good habit we've had in the past has not been able to bring with us, which is to be the most developed, most successful, richest country at least when it comes to Eastern Europe. That didn't work out for us, and that was it. EUROSTAT has been informing us these days about another regrettable placement of our country, spending per capita is the second poorest country of the EU. All those Lithuanians, Czechs, Slovenians, Poles, Romanians, Estonians, Latvians, Slovaks, Hungarians, for whom only 20 years ago we were developed west, today they left us in the dust far behind. The only ones who still share us from the very last place are Bulgarians, but they are progressing a little faster than we are, and if we continue like this, the title of the poorest EU country for Croatia is only a matter of time. That's so sad. With the resources we have, with the geographical position, with the starting position we're starting from, we've slipped to just the bottom far behind everyone. And in battle with the Crown, we are in that position and in terms of the economic crisis caused by the crown, we are the worst. In other words, we'll step away from the others again, but unfortunately in the wrong direction. Even after the use of EU funds, we are the worst, and the prime minister still failed to produce a national recovery plan that is a condition for us to start using EU money that he loves to boast about. Two things the HDZs both in the Parliament and in the government have been repeating day by day. The only two arguments they think are covering for us. One is that the Constitutional Court has confirmed that everything the Staff is doing is fine, which is totally false because what that court has been waiting for for 5 months first, and then refused to decide on the measures because they have already been abolished or changed, is not a permit for the Government and the Staff to do whatever comes their mind. The second to God's argument is that they've won the election and that's it. I can do anything now. The truth is, elections have been won and HDZ is doing pretty well, there's nothing to contradict or conceal. It's a shame they didn't know how to do anything in the last 30 years after they won the election. It is a pity that Croatia from the first place managed to bring it to the last. Excuse me, last but not least, the Bulgarians have not yet passed us. This game after the party, Croatia, in everything, where we should be at the top, led to the bottom, and in everything where we should be at the bottom, we are at the top. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26079	Thank you, too. It is now in front of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU Mr. Silvano Hrelja. Here you go. It's already been cleaned... Here you go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26081	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, it is time for me, in a way, to make a short inventory of the Croatian Parliament here in 2020, this month, colleagues and colleagues, to apply for national compensation for older people. Previously called and announced as a national pension, under the pressure of the public of pensioners, rectified in compensation. In fact, it is social assistance for all elderly people who have not obtained the right to retire in the Republic of Croatia. Retired workers, I beg you nicely, don't argue and be angry with these people. Some of them really weren't lucky to do 15 years, how many there are in total, we'll see soon enough. But here's one little good news for those who really weren't lucky in the world of work. Let's see what this year looked like for the others, the ones who did 15, 20, 35, 40 years. As it is known in the morning, so is this year after January. The human fire in the home for the elderly in Andrasevec was the announcement of a difficult year in which care for the elderly will be expressed. Far from the eyes, far from the heart. Whether in the end this tragedy, discovered illegal homes, but also the appeals of those who care and work professionally and carefully will lead to much needed changes in the welfare system, it remains to be seen. So far, we only have announcements, announcements that we are not satisfied with, but are not satisfied with the current or future protégés or homeowners for the elderly. In the year 2020, elderly people in the Republic of Croatia were attacked by both nature and society. The new virus makes them the most endangered group, which is particularly difficult to fall in a society where they are already socially and economically endangered, and the government repeats only one sentence: retirement is the last line of defense. What else we learned in this year's lesson. Retiring pensions is not an increase. A lesson known from earlier this year has been established because the harmonisation which, by otherwise minimum, has been further reduced by the change in the calculation. The lesson first, who rules, counts and gives the least possible. The second lesson, the government assured us that 47 kunas is more than 350, i.e. 61 kunas are more than 400 in terms of the censorship for additional health insurance, and in this they helped her, imagine who, retired associations. Lesson 3, parliamentary elections. Of the 135 original pension candidates on the 2 election lists, 1,250,000 pensioners have also chosen one MP, which corresponds to the total number of preferential votes of all 135 candidates. Retired pensioners after the parliamentary elections, and voted for their heads, mayors, mayors, mayors, ideological beliefs, instead of for themselves and for their own interests because none of the 135 candidates apparently were willing to do so. But I'm asking you, whoever this miracle worker is who can find a common denominator for age groups from 50 to 100, and it's about individual rights of citizens, individual rights. Who can put that together? Lesson 4 and because we are not in subjection, i.e. we are not complex, excuse me, we are not complacent in articulating the interest remains a key problem of the pension system, and these are family pensions. The most sound pensions in the entire system, pensions in which marriage partners have been singled out for decades, and when one dies, the other has the right only to his or her or 70% deceased. For a reason we speak older and powerless, but these are two groups. If you are old you have a choice you can be useful, wise, solid, responsible to yourself and others, and when age brings impotence, then we need all the support of family, society and system. For them, the powerless must fight both old and young. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26085	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Zdravka Busic, who will be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26086	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs 15 December 2020 They organised the International Conference entitled ‘The Heritage of Peace, 25 years of the Dayton-Paris Peace Agreement’. On this occasion, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic stressed in his opening statement that the equality and consistency of the three peoples of Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs were incorporated into the foundations of modern BiH since the 1992 referendum issue. until the provisions of the Dayton Agreement. Annex 4 of the agreement sets out the legitimate representation of three constituent peoples in BiH institutions to overlook, overlook or deliberately ignore this key agreement, he said, and stressed, among other things, in his opening statement by the Prime Minister. Croatia has long been openly pointing to the fact that constitutionality is the key to BiH's stability and functionality. BiH is a complex country, and consistency stems from its centuries-old history and cannot be turned overnight into something else like the identity of three peoples cannot be erased. They are not opposed, I want to point out, they are not opposed to individual freedoms and rights as well as BiH's state identity. Some international factors in greater terms, and some, to a lesser extent, recognize these facts. Yesterday, the country's president, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and Minister Grlic Radman discussed this with Minister Lavrov of the Russian Federation, where a certain level of consent has actually been established on the issue. But that was also the case at a meeting with US Secretary of State Pompe in September this year, and we are having a constant and open discussion with all our partners in the EU and NATO allies. Some of these supporters place a greater emphasis on the functionality of institutions, which is something Croatia also advocates, but that is why we are here as the best known BiH in the EU and NATO to warn them that greater functionality cannot go to the heart of constitutionality because it would destabilise the state. As we have heard, Russia supports changes to the electoral law in BiH that have been forged, harmful and dangerous practices in which one constituent people chooses political representatives of another people. I can say that the talks on amending the electoral law are very intense with our European and NATO partners and we will certainly continue especially with this next US administration. Finally, the Republic of Croatia is very open in its regional policy, including BiH, which we are actively helping on its path to EU and NATO integration. We are pleased that the correctness of our views is recognised by some international actors, and with those who think differently we continue open dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26087	It is now up to Mr Davor Bernardić, who will be the position of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26088	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. It has been known for days that Croatia is the worst in Europe and the number of newly infected and the number of dead. It is unfortunately a daily fact both by WHO and ISDS and by Johns Hopkins from London and other relevant world institutions. A hundred people die a day, so examples twice as many as in America's worst ever by the number of deaths. Hundreds of people a day, morgues are full, a hearse is in front of hospitals about to be under-sensitized by the public. Imagine that 100 other human beings died as much as could be spoken in public and written about it. However, Croatia unfortunately records many other outstanding records. EUROSTAT published data the other day that Croatia is one of the poorest countries in the EU, but it is still worrying that according to the same EUROSTAT, Croatia is the worst in living standards. Only Bulgaria is behind us, even Romania has reached us according to living standards, have a higher standard than we do. That used to be unimaginable. Until just five years ago, it wasn't nearly like that. For example, this year, the Czech Republic has reached Italy, and Slovenia is blowing its neck. Once rich and industrially developed Croatia is today at the very bottom of the EU, but even worse, it is increasingly difficult to cope with the pandemic of the coronal virus. Of course, Croatia is among the worst when it comes to the fall of the economy due to the consequences of the crown. And while the president and members of the government are trying to deceive the public, facelessly lie that everything is fine, that the situation is under control, that the crisis will not be felt because it is they who have managed to provide a great billion to Croatia. I will remind you of perhaps the saddest and most embarrassing result of Plenkovic's government, which is European funds. The use of structural and cohesion European funds in the period from 2013 to 2020, so at the end of the financial perspective is only a miserable 40%, which is grief, which also places us at the very bottom of the EU and speaks simply about the complete incompetence and unpreparedness of the Croatian government. And when you look at that data, that bitter, but on the other hand sad truth, fairy tales about how El Dorado of 20 billion is waiting for us, they're just fairy tales and it's just something that looks really funny from this perspective. At this time, while the morgues are full, while the hospital suits are crowded, while the health system is becoming increasingly difficult to cope with the pandemic, to draw attention from the fact that Croatia is the worst in Europe when it comes to the number of newly infected and dead governments in various spins trying to show that the billions they allegedly provided will save us. First of all, it's not any money that doesn't belong to us, it's our money because we pay dearly for EU membership. Second, all other EU members have much more money in line with their size and economic strength. Thirdly, if the usefulness of this money is like the usability of European funds at 40% of Croatia is not well written. The situation best described by the current Croatian government is one big lie and deception. You can lie to some people for a while, but you can't lie to all people all the time. A propaganda machine that Croatia is trying to show a state that is not simply coming to an end. Croatia missed the opportunity to reboot and public administration, as well as the entire economy. We in the SDP have proposed more than 30 laws to help citizens and entrepreneurs, you have rejected everything. You turned down the moratorium on loans, you refused to protect the poor, you refused to protect the pensioners, you refused to protect the unemployed, you refused to help doctors and nurses on the first line of defense against the virus, you refused to help entrepreneurs. And while the Prime Minister is bloating that Croatian citizens should work for the holidays, he hides that he is the one responsible for the highest mortality in Europe, for full morgues, for Croatia at the start of the EU according to the standard of living, but also for the usability of European funds of only 40%. Sadness and misery. And if the use of the European money that belongs to us and no one has given us will be as successful as Plenkovic's victory over the crown can only say "wow" to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26089	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26090	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, my colleague Bernardic hurt his ankle. In 238, he took another opportunity for a bizarre performance in which he made a series of lies to accuse others of lying, and above all by comparing both the Republic of Croatia and the fight against the epidemic in our country with the United States, so he mentioned false and false data, so it's just hard to correct. There are tables, there's absolutely everything he could say, so let's take a little closer look, so he'll see that he's lying, not the government of the Republic of Croatia and headquarters.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26091	Thank you very much, thank you. You know the warning is mandatory in these cases replicas. Mr. Bernardich, you know the same thing, don't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26092	He's been injured. In 238, Boric not only lies, he deceives the public and abuses the pay phone to tell the truth and everything Mr. Boric has been saying in this House was one big lie. So, when it comes to Mr. Boric's synonym for his name, it's a lie, a lie and just a lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26093	You know you got a warning, right? And I'm looking because what you said doesn't belong at all. 238, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26094	Thank you very much. I must react once again because Mr. Hurt the Rules of Procedure again in one statement to his full fake, he does not know how to behave at all in the assembly, apparently that the time he spent in both Gardeland and Sljemen obviously had a wrong effect on him. And if he's lying now I'll tell the data,... in the U.S., a million people a thousand and 948, which is bizarre that we compare, but in the Republic of Croatia 722, if he can't determine that, so let him look at the table, and I won't say what's in the neighbouring countries, etc. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26095	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric, you didn't even mention the article this time. ... Okay, but it was a replica as you know, so it was a different reminder. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] And now this one is going to speak Mr. Bernardic's injury to the Rules of Procedure and we're going to see what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26096	He's injured, of course. 238, because Mr. Boric, as Mr. Plenkovic's little errand boy, tries to suck and drag himself into a new parliamentary term, but does not talk about how different reports of Mr. Boric's misdemeanour as Chief of Staff of Lopar are coming to us here in the SDP, and doubts about the abuse of position and authority as Lopar's commander on his Rab. So this is something that will certainly be said in Croatia these days.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26097	Look, I'm giving you another warning. If that abuse of the Rules of Procedure continues, you will be taken away from you for today's debate. For discussion, not just for this point. ... Would you like some? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26098	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague, Bernardic, was injured by an article. 238. A Rules of Procedure because it offends the MPs and does not behave in accordance with the rules of conduct that are governed here in the assembly. Mr. Bernardich, if the people believed you then you wouldn't lose 25 different choices and you wouldn't be trusted by your colleagues in your party.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26099	Well, that would be the fifth warning, two, two, five I don't think I know what it's doing, it says in the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure have been agreed by you from the SDP and the HDZ or the HDZ and the SDP, I wouldn't write it like that. I would have left what used to be a false allegation, but the wrong allegation is gone. So did anyone else look? Mr. Brumnic, you know we're wasting time on those who have to make a point, you know we're taking time for them, right? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26100	The Honorable Vice President of HS. I think you hurt the Rules of Procedure when you first let your colleague, Boric, discuss it this way at all, and you did not prevent such a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26101	What article did I hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26102	The whole Rules of Procedure, but 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26103	The entire Rules of Procedure, you have a warning, please. Here you go. He doesn't want anyone else? Mr. Rade Simičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26104	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed representative has been injured by an article. In 238, he insults and demeans MPs, falsely and in fact shows all the frustration he has experienced. He lost parliamentary elections, lost party elections, and actually doesn't show up at the workplace he's supposed to be at. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26105	You have a warning and a five-minute break. Thank you. It's a meeting at 13:24 p.m. I don't hurt the Rules of Procedure until the end of my stand. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 13:25 A.M.]] Mr. Marin Lerotić in front of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go. If you disagree, you have a Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and a political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26107	Thank you, Vice President. Here we are getting a little close to 2021. The year when the new financial envelope 2021-2027 begins. And where do we as a state, as a society, welcome it? We welcome in a severe recession caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, but also, for example, in 51st place by digital competitiveness in the world despite having excellent young people who are the best in the world for digital literacy, we have excellent experts and multinational ICT companies. Nevertheless, Croatia is unfortunately far from realising its digital potential, especially when it comes to public administration, education and business in general. Digital Europe is one of the most important new EU programmes and this is our real chance to catch a connection with much more developed and digitally developed countries such as Denmark or Germany, to create and create preconditions for GDP growth, to create new jobs, to apply green policies, and to strengthen digital competitiveness. However, in order to achieve this, we must seriously prepare ourselves to do a serious job, much better than we did in this period until 2020. I believe we have a serious historical chance, a chance where we all have equal starting positions and let's not as a country gamble this opportunity for future development. Because as I said in Croatia, there are fantastic examples of successful digital companies such as Infobip, Nanobit or Roman. We also have an important programme at EU level, which is "Next Generation of the EU", and the key issue that is being raised in the next period is how to start the economy and avoid a long-term recession and how to use millions and billions of euros effectively and rationally available for economic recovery. In doing so, it should be made clear that there are no euro produced by politics, there are euros produced by the private sector and people working in the same sector. The honor of exceptions in the form of economic operators managed by the State. The name "Next Generation of the EU" makes it clear that it is a debt that will pay this one, but also many future generations. And that is why it is extremely important for these funds to be properly spent and for our economy, which has achieved the second largest decline due to the covid pandemic, to be placed on healthy feet. I think we saw clearly in this period after leaving the crisis that our GDP is constantly growing 2 to 3%, maybe slightly above, and that was clear to us that we do not have the economic conditions that will allow for greater growth than we have in the past. And if we weren't resilient or that our economy wasn't resilient, we also saw this fall of over 15% when we talk about the decline of GDP. That is why we urgently need to work on serious reforms, but what concerns me and what we often hear is that our economic growth, or government, is based on our economic growth on billions from the EU, but this only needs to be added value. However, we are constantly setting the wrong priorities and our economic growth is based on tourism and money from the EU. It can't be right, and that way we won't get anywhere and we won't get away from the start of all possible scales. We need serious reforms, education reforms, tax reforms, but serious and courageous. Not these little shifts that we've had a chance to look at in these last five rounds of tax reform. Priorities are the withdrawal of foreign investment and the use of the country's strategic advantages, and this is the only way to create quality conditions for the development of the economy, for new investments, for the creation of new jobs, for a resilient economy which, in the case of some new future crises, will be much more resilient than it is today. We have a serious opportunity and I hope to be honest with you that we will take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26108	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sandra Bencic will speak on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26113	Thank you, Vice President. Today I will talk about more than 20,000 workers and workers who have been completely forgotten in this covid crisis that have not been covered by any support measures, many of whom have lost jobs, and still do them, and have not been paid for months, these are workers and workers in the non-profit sector. So, reading our non-profit sector was not covered by covid measures. So all those psychologists, social pedagogues, social workers working in civil society organisations working with the most vulnerable groups in this society have not received either aid from the Ministry of Labour nor from the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. So, we're not talking about 10 people, about 20 people or 100 people we're talking about more than 20,000 people who are at risk all the time or who don't have them anymore, and when we talk about what they are creating in this society and what their value is in this society, let's remind ourselves that because of the lack of support, social services were brought to risk to children with disabilities, which is what the Angels from Split said back in 6. e.g. persons with disabilities, older and powerless, whom many civil society organisations help in the house, bring food, etc., working with homeless people, working with people who need social integration, etc., etc. We've left them all for nine months without any support. Although, of course, that's what they were looking for. After 9 months, the National Foundation for Civil Society Development remembered to launch a tender to strengthen the resilience of the non-profit sector to this crisis. It began, of course, to talk about it in March, but here, it took nine months for this competition to be prepared, and what did we get now that he was prepared? Let me tell you what position we've put all these people in. All these organisations and people who continue to volunteer at least because they can't leave users without help because it's the most risky groups, are now placed in the position of each other's competence, so they don't have a job and pay measure, but they're going to have to write projects to get those funds. And, of course, compete with each other. And how is the competition organized? The competition is scheduled for 16.12, opening, you know, when the deadline is 4.1. So 4.1. everyone has to file applications because it's not the day the competition opens, it's the day they close in a few seconds. Why? Because of course, they decided to use the fastest finger method. So they're not going to get those organizations whose work is now most needed in this crisis, they're not going to evaluate the quality of the projects, but the first one, his girlfriend. So, what do we have as a consequence? That first, those who have a stronger internet connection will apply, and those projects that meet minimum standards will pass, regardless of their quality. That means that the one with 100 points is the best, the best is, it's not going to work because it's taken 10 seconds behind the one that has, say, 30, 40 points less. It's a system by which we will assign, people, now, no less than 100 million kunas. Is this how European money is available, whether it is available to our money because Croatia co-finances it as well as all other European funds. Is this how we really help those who help the most vulnerable and replace the function of the state where these functions are not available and where these services are not provided by the State? Many of them are licensed social service providers in the community. We put them in a position to go against each other, the position of competence and the position where no quality will be allocated funds without knowing what the goal is. And what's the point of that? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So one more time, one more time [[Thank you very much.]] So we say finger down for all your fastest finger contests. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26114	Thank you, ma'am. It's a ben.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26421	We now move to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on explosive substances and the production and transport of weapons, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 43. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Davor Dretar, Green-left bloc representative club and representative Mako Kuzmanic. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Dear Zarko Katic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior. First of all, Amendment No. One representative of Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26422	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The applicant does not accept an amendment proposing a reduction in the time period for the sale of pyrotechnic assets, primarily for safety reasons. As regards specialized shops, as a rule of small gauges, it must not be allowed in such shops or in front of them, to gather a large number of people, and by cutting sales deadlines, it would be precisely such an effect. It would endanger the safety of people and property. It is also not accepted to propose, to reduce the time period of use of pyrotechnic means because we believe that the use of firecrackers will lead to a significant reduction in unwanted detonations. So it's going to be a lot quieter for people, as well as for domestic and wild animals. We will follow the law and react if necessary in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26423	Thank you. There's no representative of the Dretar, so we're gonna have to vote on this. Amendment No. Two MPs from Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26424	Thank you very much. This amendment is not accepted either, since the first amendment is not accepted, then it proposes amending the infringement provisions so that no other amendment can be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26425	Thank you very much. There is no representative of the Dretar, and we will have to vote on this amendment as well. Amendment No. Three MPs from Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26426	No. No. No. No. 3 shall not be accepted for the same reasons as the first amendment has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26427	There is no representative of the Dretar, and we will have to vote on it. We are now going to the amendments to the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, First Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26428	Amendment No. 1 shall not be accepted for the same reasons that the definitions of illicit trade and the intermediary are fully assumed by the Firearms Directive, and none of those provisions implies a lease. Similarly, Articles 42, 44 and 45 of this Law make it clear when, in which cases and under what conditions, a legal person, crafts or associations may give a weapon to the use of other persons, it is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26429	On behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, I presume the esteemed representative of Matula, is he?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26430	Thank you. Our opinion is that, in the definition of illegal trade, it is necessary, with weapons, to include the word rent because it is possible to abuse the law in a way that legal persons introduce the rent of weapons, some of which are already using it which is not then regulated as illegal trading. We'll ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26431	Po, next amendment No. 2 Clubs of Green-Left Block Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26432	Amendment No. 2 The applicant shall not accept for reasons why legal persons who receive the approval of the Ministry of Conduct of Such Activity may carry out training for the operation of explosive substances under the same conditions and in the same way as institutions. After all, the institutions are also legal persons and both, so if you think about companies and institutions, you can start individuals, so individuals. The Regulation will subsequently provide for the participation of the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior in the Examining Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26433	On behalf of the Club, the esteemed representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26434	Thank you. Therefore, we believe that, in addition to the ministry and specialised public institutions, others under quotes, legal persons, they should not carry out professional training to work with explosive substances because this contributes to privatising the security sector which can have extremely negative consequences on the general security of citizens due to the lack of effective control mechanisms over these activities and the possibility of training persons who could use explosive funds to harm society. We'll ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26435	Amendment No. 3. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26436	The applicant does not accept Amendment No. 3 Since the certificate of accreditation issued by the accreditation body to legal persons and crafts is a basic prerequisite for the authorisation of performing professional activities in the conformity assessment process. Namely, the certificate of accreditation issued by the accreditation body, which is in Croatia's Republic of Croatia's accreditation agency, is issued on a deadline which cannot be longer than 5 years. However, at least once every 18 months, the accreditation body shall supervise legal persons and craftsmen to whom such confirmation has been issued. If the accreditation body determines certain irregularities, it will lift the certificate of accreditation, notify the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which will therefore suspend the authorisation granted. That is why we believe that the time limit for issuing the authorisation to carry out professional activities in the conformity assessment procedure should be bound by the time limit set out in the accreditation body document.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26437	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26438	Thank you, Vice President. There, we continue, our position is that there is no need to amend this paragraph because the item has quality regulation and limited the time limit for approval until this new proposal no longer regulates the quality of that deadline and we ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26439	Amendment No. 4. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26440	The applicant does not accept this amendment. First of all, because keeping records, as well as records of purchase, confiscation, sale or surrender of weapons and belonging ammunition are prescribed. The 82nd century of the Fourth Law. As regards the incapacitation of firearms, the proposal on which the MUP would bear the costs of disarmament of weapons has not been established. Namely, it is the weapons of legal persons, craftsmen and associations who incapacitate their weapons with legal persons and craftsmen who have the approval of the MUP for such types of activities and for such transactions have a prescribed fee, and its owner's incapacitated weapon remains in his possession. However, after the legal person or craftsman has carried out the tasks of disarmament, the weapons shall be supplied to the MUP in order to verify the incapacitation of that weapon in accordance with the provisions of the implementing Regulation of the European Commission. The verification operations of the MUP shall be carried out without compensation, and for a valid, and for a properly disabled weapon, issue a certificate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26441	Amendment No. 5. A club of representatives, and a pardon, respected representative of Matula on behalf of the club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26442	Thank you. Neto, I'm saying that in the event of the need for national security and the security of citizens as easily as possible to determine who the legal person in the sale, in the handover of weapons or ammunition was dealing with, this amendment suggests keeping records, that... And on a separate form that the ministry would come up with. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And additionally, we believe that in order to encourage weapons owners not to train, yes, that he is not training weapons, we are convinced that the cost of incapacitation is better placed on, at the expense of the ministry, so that this cost, as he would not be an obstacle to the owner of the weapon that he, to give up incapacitation, I have said before and we will ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26443	Thank you. Amendment No. 5. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26444	For the same reason, Amendment 5 is not accepted because in this case it is also legal persons, crafts and associations which have lost their right to exercise their registered activity in the course of their business. Therefore, in this case, such a weapon and ammunition shall not be taken away by the court's decision, but shall be legally disposed of by the owner because of the inability to carry out the previously authorised activity. However, if such a weapon were withdrawn by a court decision, it would become State property or the court’s decision shall be made available to the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26445	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, Honorable Representative William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26446	Thank you. We believe that if, through administrative proceedings, weapons or ammunition are taken away, the same must be destroyed in order to adequately punish someone who has been illegally involved in the sale of weapons or ammunition and art. The 50th must then be erased with nomotechnical logic. We note if the government accepts this amendment, obviously not, then, that it is also necessary to delete the article. 50th, which is directly related to the proposed amendment, but obviously not and we will ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26447	Thank you. And Amendment 6. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26448	The applicant does not accept Amendment No. 6. for the same reasons and with the same explanation as for the amendment of 1st Representative Davor Dretar. In this regard, safety at the time of use of these pyrotechnic means will be ensured in a way that prohibits the use of firecrackers and monks and thus removes most of the accidents that have occurred.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26449	On behalf of the Club, Honorable Representative Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26450	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you know, I also said in the debate that we welcome the ministry's decision to further limit the time use of pyrotechnic means, but this amendment proposes that these deadlines be even shorter and in that sense we will ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26451	Thank you very much. We now have two amendments to the respected representative Matko Kuzmanic, first of all the first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26452	Amendment 1 to Agent Matko Kuzmanić's proposal does not accept the proposal for a reason that it is clear from the provision that it is about tanks relating to weapons of category A and tanks used exclusively for weapons of category A. It's a ammunition tank for a short firearm capacity greater than 20 rounds and a ammunition tank for a long firearm capacity greater than 11 rounds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26453	Dear Representative Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26454	Dear Secretary of State, why did I submit that amendment? For the simple reason, because of globalisation and everything in the world today. Due to the unification of certain processes, the same containers are produced for the weapons of category A and for the weapons of category B. Regardless of the number of charges, so there are tanks used in category A weapons that are in this way prohibited, and also used for category B. I deeply believe that you know what you are doing if in the case of incorrect interpretation of the law a large part of our citizens could be found in an unwanted violation of nothing caused because the tanks they use in their short firearms can also be used in the weapons of category A because they are completely identical. So today's companies that make them out of not knowing the bloc, reading, reading, doing the same containers for everyone and in this way, if that word is exclusively that I am here for you with this amendment and, and directed if literally the law were to be applied that way, could be found in such a situation, perhaps because of the ignorance of those who apply that law themselves. Unfortunately, we have been able to see this in practice in Croatia so far. There, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26455	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26456	Honestly, I talked to the secretary of state, but not now, I'm looking for a vote, and I can still hold it off tomorrow before the hearing...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26457	You can, you can always withdraw the amendment before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26458	I'm asking for a vote, but here's another chance to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26459	Okay, good. And the amendment of the 2nd Honored Representative Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26460	Amendment number 2 of MPs of Kuzmanic is not accepted for reasons of the provisions of Article. 15. refers to all weapons produced in the Republic of Croatia and to weapons placed on the market in the Republic of Croatia. However, if a legal person or craftsman purchases weapons by means of a distance contract in one foreign country for a customer in another foreign country, then it is the brokering or brokerage services prescribed by another law whose enforcement is in the power of the Ministry of Economy. It is the Law on the Control of the Production and Transport of Goods of Military Use and Unwary Murders where art. 3. Points 11, 12 and 13. All of this clearly prescribed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26461	Dear Representative Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26462	Thank you, Secretary of State. Namely, as I have pointed out to you, I do not want anything that is not allowed in other countries, meaning that in Slovenia, a Slovenian trader can do it on behalf of and for a third party without having an obligation to copy these weapons that will not be used on the territory of his country, so the same weapon would not be used on the territory of our country only that this CIP, which does not charge our country again, is being chipsed in Hungary or Austria, or in some other countries that have institutes for that purpose, would make it impossible for our entrepreneurs, traders and authorised distributors if they have to chip it into an unfavourable position on the market who are at the very beginning more expensive than their colleagues from Slovenia and other countries in the environment. So that exclusively refers to weapons that will not remain in the Republic of Croatia but will only be used will be sold by our company that will go from America to Albania or by another country that is not obliged to have a CIP. I'm staying with this amendment to go to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26463	You're looking for a vote, thank you. Thank you very much. This ended the debate on amendments, and also with work for today. We will continue to work tomorrow on Friday 18 December and this vote at 10.00 hours, the vote will be at 10.00 hours on the points so far. Thank you very much, and I wish you the rest of the evening. The session was interrupted at 6:27 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26477	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We begin our work as announced: 1. A)A report on consultations on the intention of declaring the exclusive economic belt of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea B)The proposal for a decision to declare the exclusive economic belt of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Article 123 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Agriculture. Now, I would like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation of the proposal. With us is respected Foreign and European Affairs Minister Gordan Grlic Radman. But before that we have a break, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26478	Thank you very much. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Mosta Club for 10 minutes because today is a big day for the Croatian state, for Croatian citizens. Today we're discussing the IGP announcement. My colleagues and I have on several occasions suggested that the IGP be declared by the Most Club, unfortunately this is what the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this House refused. I am pleased to see the distinguished representatives of the Croatian government, the distinguished representatives of the majority, for changing your mind. Was I supposed to declare an IGP before? Yes, but today it's good and today it's what the Croatian people expect and today it's why we fought for the freedom of the Croatian people. Me and my colleagues will support this proposal and this is for us a solemn moment, this is for us the most solemnly possible, the setting of borders at sea, borders and the expansion of 24,000 km2 of sovereign law of the Republic of Croatia is a solemn moment. My colleagues and colleagues, you who did not support this IGP, your change of opinion well and positively for the Croatian people. After the IGP is declared, we have a struggle to protect the area with our Croatian Coast Guard. It won't just be enough to declare IGP. Finally, I am proud and honored to be involved in this moment in making this decision, and I expect all of you to unanimously support this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26479	Thank you very much. The apartment will be approved. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26480	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am looking for a 10 minute break in order to express again clearly the HDZ's position, which is that today and these days, the time has come for Croatia to declare the IGP. Although the IGP declaration in relation to the protected ecological fishing band will not mean what it would mean to have the IGP declared to be all EU Member States, before Croatia enters full EU membership, we want to use all the IGP content this way. Every country, serious state and Croatia knows its strategic national priorities, and our national priorities were primarily to create a sovereign independent Croatian state, win the imposed war, become a member of all relevant international organisations and the UN, and the Council of Europe and NATO and the EU. On that road, we had to know as a young country how to establish and adopt all our strategic national priorities in this discussion and negotiations on the establishment of the state. If we had made any mistake on that road today, Croatia would not be a member state of the EU. One of these traps was the IGP announcement and we are both EU members today and an independent and sovereign state, and we will have the IGP very soon. And that is why I congratulate Mr. Ministers on what has been done recently to declare the IGP in common with the states, the coastal states of the Adriatic Sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26481	Thank you very much. The apartment will be approved. Is anyone else picking up? My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26482	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Today's debate, i.e. the debate on the IGP's declaration, is actually just the culmination of a procedure that began just over 17 years ago. At the time of the government of Ivica Racan, when here at HS is as represented today by counterpart Grlic Radman, then Foreign Minister Tonino Picula represented the declaration of ZERP. By declaring ZERP...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26483	My fellow coat of arms, I'm sorry, I'm asking my bridge colleagues to stick to the rules of the game, which I interrupted you for. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26484	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, the declaration of ZERP has been consumed by the largest and most important part of the IGP, which is the one relating to the protection of plant and animal species in the Adriatic Sea and the part relating to the protection of fisheries. With the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, Croatia has started to apply a common fisheries policy. For all those who know about the EU, I must, this is actually a repetition, but for those who do not know, and unfortunately in this House there are such, fishing policy is something that represents a domain of EU work, not a Member State. The issue of fisheries policy is being regulated at EU level and it is therefore extremely important for the minister to make it clear and clear today that the declaration of an exclusive economic band is in line with other EU Member States and that Croatia performs here in line with those countries with which it must implement a common fisheries policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26485	Now it's my colleague Zekanovic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26486	I request a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes to further consult on this bill, that is, this decision. This here is the Lisbon Treaty, you had it in your hands, I suppose, respected ministers, many times and at the time when Croatia adopted the Lisbon Agreement, it also accepted the way of the game, i.e. the fishing regime in the Adriatic Sea. And what some don't understand, and I'll agree with you there, nothing changes about fishing policies in the Adriatic Sea, absolutely nothing. So nothing changes. We'll be able to build artificial islands. That's great. We will be able to exploit the energy of tides and tides, or sea currents and waves in our IGP area, which no one does in the open sea world. That's great. But there's a catch and you know there's a catch, and it's about having a chance now as the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I'm going to take it, and I've actually taken that conclusion, the EU's request to the Commission to fully protect our part of the IGP. Only with full protection from any fishing, from any fishing of marine organisms has Croatia gained its goal. This is how this is a missing story. So, you don't need to clap for this because you've only taken one small first step, and this second key step, I'm afraid, given your otherwise unsuspecting attitude, I'm afraid you'll have the courage to do it. I will repeat, we Croatian sovereigns ask the government of the Republic of Croatia to send the EU to the Commission a request for the full protection of our IGP, which we hope vote today or within a few days. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26487	Stanka will be approved to you, too. Comrade Vrkljan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26488	Your Honor, Mr. President. On behalf of the Homeland Movement Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break. It's not to consult us, it's to consult colleagues on the left and right. It's at the very beginning of our today's gathering where I definitely don't want it to turn into some fight or conflict, but that would be a good idea for you to consult. In fact, the HDZ Club has nothing to be proud of that today is the Law on the ZERP and that is, the Economic Belt Act on the agenda. Also, colleagues on the left should not start by saying that Racan’s government first passed the law because it simply does not correspond to the truth. President Tudjman's government in '94. It adopted the first prelaw, i.e. the law which created the assumption that a ZERP, or a free economic belt, is being declared today and tomorrow. So on these two sides, there are already two completely opposite opinions that definitely lead the Croatian people astray. On the other hand, I ask the President, or the Minister, to be very precise in his presentation, that it does not happen, as he last said, and that every question here in the Parliament and from the journalists is answered by the process. It is a process, but in this process we need to remember what Hidajet Biščević was doing in 2003, '04. he had to go to Brussels where he signed that one piece of paper based on which Italy and Slovenia were blackmailing Croatia, and the president.../incomprehensible/... Prime Minister Sanader and President Mesic made an easy statement that this paper is not binding on us to show later that we are very binding and that we have become The prisoners of those two lands. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26489	I shouldn't give you a break in principle because you didn't ask for a break for your club. It does not say in the Rules of Procedure that one club can seek a break for consulting other clubs, so it is one verbal acrobatic, but here, we already have such a request, so please, when you seek a break, concentrate on what is important for your party and for these types of consultations. My colleague Bacic was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26490	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Vrkljan, was injured by an article. 238. disdaining MPs from both the left and, on the left and the right, through this debate. But I would also remind him that, when he was already trying to level us all in that path to the IGP announcement that your president, on 13 January 2008, here in this House, also voted for the suspension of ZERP, therefore, that one hodogram of events is shared by the Homeland movement, so take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26491	Thank you very much. It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica. It's interesting, but it's no big deal. Here you go. We have a break until 10 o'clock exactly. It's 9:00.46.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26492	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats so we can continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10 HOURS]] Comrade Bacic, please don't get another warning. We go with where we left off, and that is the address on behalf of the promoter, Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, the respected Gordan Grlic Radman. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26493	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Madam Representatives, gentlemen of the Parliament. The protection of the Adriatic Sea is one of the most important and most important strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia and is an important component of the policy of this government and it is precisely why it is my special honor and pleasure to be here today in front of you and to present to you a report on consultations on the intention of declaring the Republic of Croatia's IGP in the Adriatic Sea as well as a proposal for a Decision declaring the IGP in the Adriatic Sea. Let me remind you that the first step in protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea was made in 2003 when this High House was decided to extend the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia to the Adriatic Sea on 3 October 2003, which established a protected ecological-fishing band of the Republic of Croatia on the Adriatic Sea, Colloquial ZERP. The contents of the IGP have then been declared relating to the sovereign rights of research and exploitation, conservation and management of living natural resources of marine waters outside the borders, beyond the external border of the Croatian territorial sea, if the jurisdiction regarding scientific research of the sea and the protection and conservation of the natural resources of the sea and the marine environment. In addition to the already existing rights that Croatia has on the sea floor and underground, means in the Epicontinental Belt regime, the establishment of the ZERP made Croatia all major components of the IGP established by the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. The only rights we have not acquired so far are the right to build artificial islands and the right to produce energy using sea, sea currents and winds and these are these additional rights which Croatia will now receive by declaring the IGP. Of course, there's another additional and now there's some elements and components. It is important to point out that the HS has already reserved the right to declare other IGP contents, in accordance with the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Croatian Maritime Code. The accession of Croatia to the EU has achieved a second significant step since 2013 as the area of the ZERP, as well as all the IGPs and fishing zones of other EU Member States, has become part of EU waters applying the rules of the common fisheries policy and is working together between EU Member States to protect and preserve the natural resources of the sea and the marine environment. These are the very aspects that have been particularly important to us, which have not applied to EU Member States until our accession. Then, 3 years later, in 2016, the Croatian Government concluded that it had tasked the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs in coordination with other relevant ministries to carry out consultations with EU Member States and the EU to the Commission on the protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea, including the possibility of declaring and the full application of the IGP. Following the consultations carried out with the EU Commission and the Member States, 2017 The Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs has drafted a comprehensive report that has also been discussed in this House. The report discusses all the rights that Croatia enjoys in the Adriatic Sea through the ZERP, now as a member of the EU, by exercising the rights of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, independently and through cooperation mechanisms established by the EU acquis, in particular by common fisheries policy and cooperation in environmental protection. One of the conclusions highlighted in the report was that regardless of how far Croatia is already exercising its rights and legitimate interests in the Adriatic Sea through the ZERP, Croatia still has the right to decide to declare the IGP and start with its full application. The Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs continued to dialogue and encourage cooperation on the protection of the Adriatic with neighbouring countries, mainly with us in neighbouring Italy, since we share the largest coast that has also considered the option of declaring the IGP. At the end of this year, the long-standing co-operation of the two Adriatic states, Croatia and Italy, led to an agreement on a harmonised declaration of Croatia's and Italy's IGPs. The protection of the Adriatic and sustainable management of the Adriatic Sea were one of the most important topics of the meeting of the Croatian and Italian Foreign Ministers' Committee on Foreign Affairs held on 30 November 2020 at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Zagreb, and the mutually confirmed coordination of the activities of the two countries with the aim of declaring the IGPs, as well as the willingness to approach the talks on their demarcation. Croatian clarity has been informed of this. Croatia and Italy are neighbouring countries with the longest coasts on the Adriatic Sea, which are semi-closed and with a very sensitive marine ecosystem. It is therefore extremely important to cooperate in order to adequately protect and preserve the natural wealth of the Adriatic Sea and to ensure sustainable management of its resources. The mutual willingness of Croatia and Italy to protect the Adriatic Sea, enables full protection of the Adriatic Sea between the Croatian and Italian coasts, thereby making it a solid basis for cooperation in the implementation of fisheries as well as for the protection and conservation of the marine environment and for the development of the blue economy. It is also the third important step we are ready to take so far, to declare the IGP on both sides of the Adriatic. These days, the media area also raises the question of why only now, and some say that Croatia is suddenly accessing the IGP declaration. The Croatian Parliament is exactly the right place to explain it. In all foreign policy activities, everything has its own dynamics has its own process and requires also an appropriate political instinct. We are not alone, we are members of the international community, there are other countries around us. So we've been thinking, and in the end, we've estimated that this is exactly the best time that all the conditions for the IGP to be declared, now that this act is complemented by the Italian declaration of IGP will get the best result. I can say that modestly, immodestly, these are the successes of Croatian diplomacy as you have been following this year and many others. When we talk about consultations, it is important to mention that we have previously given our intention to declare the IGP to the Slovenian side both at the ministerial level and at the government's level. This also points to this very courtesy of talking to neighbors, correctness to continue to enjoy good relations. In particular, I would like to point out here the close cooperation between the presidents of our two states, as well as ministers. The Slovenian side received timely and complete information on our steps with the understanding that our declaration of the IGP in no way has an impact on the non-resolvement of our open issues, border issues. Apart from Italy and Slovenia, we discussed the intention of declaring the IGP and other neighbouring Adriatic states, but also with others who are not, but are, for example, Mediterranean countries. I spoke to the Minister of Foreign Affairs personally, not necessarily but it was nice to convey that information, even get support, and also with French Minister Le Drian because they also declared the IGP in some areas of the Mediterranean Sea. I also spoke with BiH Foreign Minister Bisera Turkovic, and I also sent an ambassador to Sabolic to talk to Montenegrin Foreign Minister Djordje Radulovic about this notice and the chairman of the Council of Ministers of Ministers Zoran Tegelti, and I also spoke to Montenegrin Foreign Minister Djordje Radulovic, stressing that the IGP declaration will not change anything about the previous ZERP, which is now and so on applied to the two countries. I further pointed out to Minister Radulovic that Croatia does not, in this act, prejudge the final solution to the issue of differentiation between our two countries, which is now governed by the protocol on the provisional regime along the southern border of 2002. Namely, I have conducted several phone conversations with him since the intention of declaring the IGP has spurred the great interest of the political public in Montenegro. I have discussed the intention of declaring the IGP and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Albania although we do not border with Albania but is also a gesture they welcomed with Gent Cakai, and I have also informed some other ministers of the EU Member States as I have said to the Ministers of the Mediterranean. In addition to talks with Slovenian and Italian Prime Ministers, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic discussed the intention of declaring the IGP as well as the planned dynamics of action and implementation consultations with neighbouring countries also with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen. This Saturday, the day after tomorrow, I will meet with my Italian and Slovenian colleagues, so to the foreign ministers in Tripartite, and then we will confirm by a trilateral declaration of Croatia-Italy's IGP on both sides of the Adriatic and the determination to strengthen our trilateral co-operation and as an EU member state in the Adriatic. We will also announce our trilateral meeting later in January 2021. to discuss and discuss further opportunities for our cooperation in the Adriatic, including strengthening the connectivity of the maritime, road, rail infrastructure of the transport and development of the blue economy. In order to join the IGP declaration as a sovereign law of the coastal state, according to the UN Convention on Law, it must be understood that Croatia and Italy will join the declaration of their belts after a trilateral meeting of the foreign ministers of the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic and the Republic of Slovenia during January 2021. Respected representatives and representatives of HS, the proposal for a decision to declare the IGP of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea whose proposal we are delivering today to this High House would declare the IGP of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea in accordance with the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. It would also establish an area of sea in which it would extend as well as its temporary borders until the conclusion of international agreements on its demarcation. It would be further established that it will be implemented in accordance with the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, the Maritime Code of the Republic of Croatia and EU legislation and eventually confirm that the Croatian IGP remains a maritime space in which all states, without touching Croatia's sovereign rights and jurisdiction, enjoy international rights of guaranteed freedoms and rights. The entry into force of the decision declaring the IGP would put itself outside the scope of the HS decision concerning the ZERP. Dear Mr. President of HS, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate that the diplomatic and other activities so far have carried out all the necessary improvements and created the appropriate conditions for this decision in the beginning of next year. By declaring the IGP we will do the most we can in the legal protection of the Adriatic Sea for which our Croatian people are historically, geographically, geographically, culturally and fatefully bound and referred to. I invite you to accept a consultation report on the intention of declaring the IGP in the Adriatic Sea, and to consider and support the proposal for a decision to declare the IGP in the Adriatic Sea in order to take place after a trilateral meeting between the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic and the Republic of Slovenia during January 2021. It decided to declare the IGP of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea in this high house. Thank you for your attention, I remain open to your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26494	I thank the minister, we will now move on to the replicas, the first is my colleague Zekanovic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26495	Dear Minister, three short questions, you'll have time to answer, a minute is enough. First, does the Government of Andrej Plenkovic intend to build which artificial island in the economic belt because that's all we get? Secondly, is fishing policy or fishing regimes in the IGP changed compared to the ZERP? And third question, are you, as Minister or Government of Andrej Plenkovic, intending to protect IGP from Italian chariots, so do you intend to ask the European Commission for full protection of the Italian IGP?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26496	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26497	Thank you very much. As regards the impact of the IGP on fisheries policy, as well as the protection of fisheries resources, I would like to remind myself that it is a fishing aspect in cooperation with the European Commission and other EU Member States, as a country, affecting the creation and application of the common fisheries policy in the Adriatic Sea, and creating conditions for sustainable fisheries and having the right to control the implementation of the rules of the common fisheries policy in the ZERP. But of course this actually strengthens and strengthens sovereignty, and together with Italy that declares the same IGP we are actually protecting the Adriatic as a whole and it is certain that the issue of the protection of the Adriatic is therefore the issue of exclusion of third countries from breaking into the Adriatic Sea. It's obviously a short time for me to explain a lot to you, but in principle, it's an IGP. ZERP upgrade. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26498	Here you go, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26499	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, thank you for having responded in your debate to the question I asked you in your request for a break, which is what, especially in the section relating to the adoption of the report, is extremely important, that this proposal is communicated with our partners in the EU and that it is communicated with the neighbours of the Republic of Croatia because good neighbourly relations are crucial in the ability to implement such a decision to declare the IGP. Therefore, the SDP also accepts a report on the actions carried out, and will also support the decision to declare the IGP. However, I ask you to answer specifically, even though it is already part of it. With regard to fisheries policy in relation to the ZERP, what is the specific change in the IGP?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26500	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26501	We're strengthening, thank you very much, Mr. Grbin, we're actually strengthening this actually our dimension of protection above all the Adriatic. Coli Zekanovic said that the inability to actually allow international law means the Convention on the Law of the Sea means allowing the IGP to be declared abundant in various situations, you have various modes, entirely, in areas and so on. But what's important is that we have the possibility of artificial islands, of artificial islands we probably won't build because we have thousands of islands, but there's the possibility of also exploiting, using energy through sea waves, water, winds, there's a lot of possibilities where you can actually work and exploit the meaning of the IGP. On the other hand, it is also possible that Croatian police, the Croatian authorities, also oversee ships that pass even though not necessary, there are satellite footage, but primarily because of pollution of potentially potential Adriatic oil spills, etc. from all kinds of ships.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26502	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26503	Dear Ministers, the triba clearly and loudly say that it is not those who criticise and who say that we get nothing only islands of artificial and energy, to say that it is not about artificial islands and platforms, but in the sovereign rights of the Croatian state that we currently rule these areas and manage in the coming centuries. That's the point. We didn't protect the submarine with ZERP, nor under the sea, we didn't protect it. We get a lot here. Even the European Commission said in 2013, it invited us to declare the IGP based study where it said that we are losing billions and 200 thousand kunas annually, 200 million kunas to 2 billion kunas, which means we are in the last 20 years. lost 40 billion kuna. European Commission invited us 2013 to lose about 2 billion kuna a year [[Intruder: Thank you]] which means 60 million kuna. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26504	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26505	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Actually, here he is, actually there's a good exchange of IGP for ZERP because we used ZERP just as much as we're going to use in IGP. But look, you're talking about a study that was actually done, we know about that study in 2008. which was so theoretical. It has given a certain mechanism to display fish's wealth in the territorial sea and possible economic belts and the value of fishing. But with the note, there is a note from Mr Bulj that states are not EU member states and that no common fisheries policy is applied. Since Croatia actually had a ZERP for all time and was free to hunt in the area, all the time there was a potential catch in value, you, up to EUR 140 million, but you said a billion on "Open" so we don't know what figures you're thinking about anymore. but we are talking about the EUR 140 million that Croatia has used. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26506	Thank you very much. Comrade Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26507	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, the IGP declaration is another positive shift of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in achieving our national rights that will certainly give new security to our fishermen, but also to other sectors that will certainly benefit from it. I believe that you have now announced the holding of a trilateral ministerial meeting that it will lead to a common agreement between Croatia, Italy and Slovenia to strengthen economic co-operation in the Adriatic area and allow for the development of a blue economy, but also all activities related to the protection and preservation of the natural wealth of the sea and the marine environment, and I congratulate you on your external diplomacy on the conditions acquired, on this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26508	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26509	Thank you very much, ma'am. Representatives, Your Honor. MPs, of course there are a lot of aspects that are really important, are political first of all. It means strengthening the global visibility of the Republic of Croatia when you look at what Croatia has actually done so far. So one thing is, I respect your exposure and the look on the inside when you defend Croatian national interests, but the Croatian government at the same time defends Croatian national interests, but it also has appropriate external political activity and observes and works with neighbours because it should have the meaning of allies, it needs to be imposed on the international community in order to make as much of an affirmation of these national interests as possible. We can't just watch, understand, inside the state just, we need to see, agree with, with partners. Here's when you look at Montenegro who also showed interest, you all need to talk about what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26510	Now she's going to speak to her colleague, Petyr, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26511	Thank you very much, President HS. Mr. Minister, this year, despite being extremely difficult, she was in an external political sense successful. After 10 years. The U.S. Secretary of State visited Croatia after 14, Russian Foreign Minister after 17. A common language with Italy has also been reached to declare the IGP at the same time. These are great news and they are good successes because by finally introducing adequate protection from the Italian side, third countries will be excluded, which means that this will have a positive impact on our part of the Adriatic and on the preservation of our livestock. What I'm interested in is, did you talk to the Italian side about the line of demarcation through the conversations you had with the Italian side? I know Italy has not shown any claims so far, but surely after this decision is declared by the IGP following an agreement on the line of distinction, can we expect a good deal there as well?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26512	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26513	Thank you. Absolutely. It's very important because actually one includes or conditiones the other because when you declare the IGP then the second step is actually a conversation about demeritation, meaning demarcation means sea belt. Because yours actually means this border is going from the territorial sea to the high seas and then it becomes a temporary external border. But in order to determine actually this and the border, you have to divide, you have to make an international agreement like they did with this Greece. Al, I want to tell you in fact, you've now listed Pompeo, so Lavrov, etc., so it's always important in politics to recognize, to have a political instinct, what our people would say is "hora" when the moment is. Because we have a good administrative bureaucratic apparatus here, it's the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other ministries that are experts, but it's a matter of political management when you're going to recognize that it's the right time for something, and now it's the right time and when all the conditions for this are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26514	Thank you. Here you go, pal Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26515	I thank President HS. Dear Ministers, here we are at the end of a very long process with the aim of protecting national interests, i.e. submarines, plant habitats and all that concerns the Croatian Adriatic. You've been in diplomacy a long time, and can you tell us what it's like to negotiate and stay friends and protect national interests? And second, what will be the role of the coast guard in, in preserving, preserving the line of demarcation, and do we have ships and people ready for it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26516	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26517	Thank you very much for that question. You know in all this is, it's actually a good step, we, our, our fishermen, just our fleet isn't as strong and strong as it is Italian, but just this can help us protect it so we can keep from these incursions and the possibilities of more other fishermen, and here you have the apple cauldron, which is the best example of how we just did it, how we kept from any other incursions where actually no one can but is actually one common good. And what's really important you know in diplomacy in politics is what I recognize what I said the right moment. Because you know the same thing in the people say especially in the Chetino area, "dilitate, but not hit the goal", so you have to know that you're going to hit the srid, that's important, and that's whether it's cooja, bar, before, etc., but it's important to know when the alka is being held and that it's actually making points and bringing political points.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26518	How did you say Gillette Ministers?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26519	Gilitani.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26520	To remember the guillotines.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26521	It means to kill each other, not hit the target.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26522	My colleague, BArtulica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26523	Thank you. Dear Minister. I would not agree with you if this was the best time to declare. A better example might be August 5, '95. when Croatia started with the Storm, it is a real example of state policy where national interests are taken care of, no matter what some think. This is more due to the mentality of the courtship that Croatia is actually costing and follows our diplomacy all the time. But I'd say why do I think this isn't the best time? So all these years since this is on the agenda we haven't charged any kuna fees by Italy and others who hunt in that area. In the end, I think for the sake of correctness, it would be good to mention Dr. Tadic, Tonci Tadic, who has been on the right side since the beginning and has personally advocated the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26524	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26525	Thank you very much. Mr. Bartulica, I've known you for more than 25 years, and I've been very disappointed by your finding that Croatian diplomacy is being courted, I don't know where it's from, but when I tell you what I know, then I'm telling you what I know, and your perception or judgment that it's so not what she's resting on, but you have to believe in Croatian diplomacy. On the other hand, you did not live here and you did not live in this former country, what Croatia has done for 30 years is actually unmistakable successes achieved by Croatian diplomacy. Unmistakable successes achieved by Croatian diplomacy. When you look at it, I've lived in that former state, so he knows what this rest is waiting for, and he'll wait for decades to get the conditions that we've achieved, and that we've become a respectable state that has absolutely its own voice in the international community and as a member of NATO and a respected member of the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26526	Thank you. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26527	Thank you. I'm calling in an article. In 238, the minister hurt that article because he implied that I didn't live here a big minus and a lack and doesn't allow me to understand some things, I think it's a form of demeaning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26528	I would disagree with my colleague Bartulic, I listened very carefully, I don't think it was her intention to offend you, but my colleague Grlic made a statement. Well, he spent some time outside of Croatia, too, so there was really no intention.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26529	It wasn't intentional, but I will maybe if you let me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26530	No. I can't let you through some replica. You have to be careful when you're gilit to hit the target. Comrade Hrebak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26531	Your Honored Ministers. Speaking of whaling, I'd like to say it's not at all disputed that it's a good thing to declare the IGP, but I have to ask one question on behalf of my party. Namely, since 2003. more HSLS as a party advocates precisely the declaration of the economic belt and it has always been somehow not a moment, not now, the EU is the priority of joining the EU, so the key question that I have to ask here on behalf of all generations, leaderships, presidents, members and members of my party, which I have been saying since the beginning of 2000, is precisely the issue. Is it really Croatia and that's what confuses the public, and we have to work on that perception to break that perception if really Croatia was in case she had to say something on the one hand to get on the other. I just think it's time after 20 years to find out. And in any case, it is good that the economic belt is declared [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26532	Thank you, colleague Hrebak. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26533	Thank you very much. I took this as a compliment, so here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26534	Comrade Nemet, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26535	Dear Minister. Here we support definitely the initiative of a trilateral meeting between the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic and the Republic of Slovenia, but as I come from northwestern Istria and in communication with Istrian fishermen and fishermen from Savudrija, I have received the information that declaring the exclusive IGP for them will not change their lives at present, but you ministers know very well what will change their lives, which is to resolve the border dispute with the Republic of Slovenia. They continue to receive large fines every day and I think it is time and opportunity, but if as an act of goodwill we have included the Republic of Slovenia in this trilateral meeting to try and find a way to solve this big problem. Our fishermen must not be hostages of politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26536	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26537	Thank you very much for this suffering, and I really thank you for that observation and for that. Listen to us fishermen are absolutely important because they're actually in the field. These are the people we actually care about and care about. There have been a lot of their reactions in public space these days and they are mostly all positive, and the fact that fishermen are always the first ones to talk to Slovenia because in fact what your laws and negotiations will do and so if you do not see their feasibility on the ground. Therefore, the fishermen, yes, the people on the ground absolutely, and it is with Slovenia in the next period after this strengthening, actually strengthening even better cooperation, talking about these issues, and I hope to warmly in the government, this government, our government of Andrej Plenkovic, and I hope that we will address all our open issues to the well-being of our fishermen, our people living at the border.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26538	Now it's time for my colleague, Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26539	Good afternoon. I am pleased to quote Ivan Mažuranić here in HS, Death of Smail age Cengić "The Gillitnica doesn't hit the goal" but then if the goal hits, we should have some objective estimates the day after we had 92 dead from the covid, saying that this is one of the most important events in Croatia it seems to me that it is excessive, so it would probably be Ivan Mažuranić himself. What would really be one of the major events in Croatia is the declaration of an economic belt and the whole of Croatia in which we exclude ourselves from the non-critical, non-critical integration into financial and economic and international flows where one of our governments is conducted, a car colonial policy that certainly does not bring any good to our fishermen or our workers, and we cannot call this imaginary line that we pulled across the Adriatic the most important event in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26540	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26541	I think exactly the opposite, and I respect this one therefore and your criticism or in fact a certain skepticism and so, but watch out there, there will be a lot of situations that this one opens up to us in fact some new perspectives and the question is the green plan of this because we will, in fact, just by declaring the IGP inside and the EU, it is actually EU waters where we will be able to suggest actually quotas or, if we wish, the truth has no quotas in the Mediterranean Sea or the Adriatic Sea, but it provides us with very many opportunities within the EU that we actually manage, so our sea together with the Italians in its part. But actually the Adriatic Sea is a common sea regardless of what Italy and Croatia share mostly, but there are also other countries. There is actually one starting basis actually for a very, very good cooperation and it can be a successful European story.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26542	Thank you. Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26543	Dear Minister, I must say that I am greatly saddened, not to say that I am ashamed when a representative of the Croatian government comes before HS and then says the lies. It is true that you had no idea that the Republic of Italy was going towards the declaration of an economic zone or an economic, economic part of the Adriatic. Yes, at the beginning of the 11th month, the Italian Commission voted with 394 votes to go in that direction and sent it to the Italian Parliament, and our foreign ministry has answered the question, we do not plan to declare an economic belt in the Adriatic, we have good neighbourly relations with Italy. The first date when you find out from Italy that you're even going to declare the economic belt is 30.11. So a month after it's practically in Italy, everything has already been settled. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26544	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26545	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. In view of my experience, so everyone is saying what exactly this is doing and how it works, and I can assure you that I am here from 17 July last year, and I am actively engaged in foreign policy, and especially with Mr. Di Maia, with whom I have agreed for months this COM, this is the Co-ordination of the Committee of Ministers in Croatia, which may have been used earlier, last year was the one we were then, I insisted that it be this year, meaning this is the Co-ordination of the Committee of Ministers that was on 30 November where there were 8 ministers and + 3 or 4 central state offices. We're talking about it, but it's not you know this one you can't put this one in the public eye. Well, that's one constant, that's one constant that's been promoted and run through all these years, but to make something mature and to get conditions, then you can't communicate it publicly, but the moment you have certain assurances that it might happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26546	Let's go to a colleague of mine, here you go. My colleague Brumnic, here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Just turn yourself on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26547	The Honorable President, HS, is injured. 238. To say in HS that you cannot go public with what is done on behalf of and in the interest of the Republic of Croatia I think it is more than an injury to that article.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26548	You're getting a warning. This has nothing to do with what you say first is incorrect because there are many state affairs being done, and then later the public is informed, especially in diplomacy. If you worked in diplomacy you'd probably know that... What? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] And secondly, this was a replica, no violation of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, let's move on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26549	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you and I are diplomats, you are still active, I am at peace. Everything has its dynamics, it has its own process, you're absolutely right. However, it is not possible to take the impression that this all coincides with Italy's IGP announcement, and we are showing this as a diplomatic success and nothing is changing. So nothing changes, we can make artificial islands and exploit energy and remain border problems with Slovenia and Montenegro, that's what we can say. But it's also interesting that here people are trying to ask you a very simple thing that interests my friend Shimu. After this declaration, can Italian cots come to us and hunt our fish like they've been doing so far? Just say it and nothing else, we'll be the one for this announcement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26550	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26551	Thank you very much, Mr. Skoro. So, we're these diplomats, I'm active. So, at the moment of Croatia's entry into the EU 2013, So this Adriatic Sea is becoming a European sea and you know that ZERP has only been applied to third countries, but has not been applied to EU member states. So Croatia can fish in Spain this sea or anywhere. So it's a common sea, of course we'll be able to also gamble on this one on the Italian side. So this is the European sea, or water, of EU waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26552	Here you go, Comrade Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26553	Dear Minister, I believe this is one of those topics in which Croatian citizens expect us not to share in party lines but to support this government proposal. Of course every club, any representative can and legitimately give his tone. However, I believe that while these discussions are important, it is much more important that what will be written remains in the document. The old Latins were still saying "religious volunteer script manent", and I believe it will remain written that on the proposal of this government this Croatian Parliament has made a decision to declare the economic belt and thus further protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26554	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26555	Thank you very much. Of course, when we're actually talking about IGP, it's actually one more degree of protection. So you're always going, you're trying to upgrade, so state and state institutions, so in every segment of the government, in all those areas. That's why Croatia is going forward, so be careful, we are now getting thanks to our negotiations of 24 billion euros, which is for the multiannual financial framework, which is for, therefore, the budget, and what for the economic recovery plan. Therefore, it is not easy here, it is a serious matter to manage the state. It is a noble discipline and it is in any case a struggle for Croatian citizens, for Croatian national interests, and in this year we showed, look out, we had a Secretary of State this year, we had Lavrov, we had a conference on Dayton, we had a few, and we chaired the EU Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26556	Let's move on. Now it's time for my colleague Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26557	Thank you. Dear Minister, here we are, 30 years from the acquisition of independence. You say, now is the best time, there are conditions for the IGP to be declared, and these are very thin and inconclusive reasons why the ruling is trying to explain why this couldn't have happened before. But even now, it should be pointed out that from the IGP's declaration to the achievement of the objectives of protecting the Adriatic and sustainable management of the Adriatic, it is a long and distant way. We need well-prepared and well-designed policies for this, very clear. Nothing good should be expected of the ruling, but it should be expected of the rest of us. It won't take us another 30 years to come up with them and spend them in action.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26558	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26559	Thank you very much for your support, I'm glad you're also elected to HS which is actually a sign that we're all working on the same job. Of course you can't say that it's ruling, so it can be expected of you, but it's important that the works are actually the best indicator, and I wouldn't waste words about it either. What this Croatian work does, I think, is that no government in the Republic of Croatia has achieved such achievements if we forget, if we ignore the period of the first Croatian president and the '90s. In fact, the greatest results of Croatian affirmation in the international community were achieved by 2000. It was one of the most difficult times in all respects, but then the elections were actually those international successes, which we can be proud of and which were, in fact, the introduction and the subsequent further affirmation of the Republic of Croatia on the international agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26560	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26561	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. Two are...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26562	Just, buddy Bacic, just a little bit. A fellow Grmo and a colleague... I beg you, very loudly hear you, please indeed that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My friend Bulj... What's the matter? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Come on, please, let's calm down. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26563	I thank Mr. President, Mr. Minister, for the two most important aspects of this process of declaring the IGP. The first is that he's in line. 123. The International Convention on Law must be implemented in a way that states, coastal states in a semi-closed sea such as the Adriatic Sea, agree and coordinate their protection regimes, as well as at this upcoming conference in Venice, you will bring this protection with Italy and Slovenia. And another important thing, it is that the Italian Republic approaches the protection of the Adriatic Sea, so I would say that we are not late, that we do not,.../incomprehensible/... do because of what Italy does, but Italy does what we did long before it did, so it should have been taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26564	Well, of course, that's right, in fact, you should also listen to diplomacy and negotiate skillfully, and no, it's easy to pass a unilateral act. And the later you make a problem if you don't agree with the countries, first of all with your neighbors. You build something in the yard somewhere, looking from the aspect actually, I don't know, here, life, so, work, you have to ask your neighbor something will bother him or he won't mind. As the neighbour reacts, I am now telling you that Montenegro, although there is no real implications, because, in fact, what was ZERP, is now an IGP, but still the intention of Croatian declaration of IGP has driven a great deal of interest, not to say another word. Therefore, Minister Radulovic, we have held several talks on how to convince him that, in fact, you have the interfaces, according to Italy, you have a lateral line to Montenegro, a temporary line to the demarcation, means no prejudge, etc., but you must carry out these talks with all of them. We're not alone here in this geopolitical space. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26565	Thank you. Comrade Cappelly, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26566	The Honorable President, Minister, has a lot to comment on and in some ways ask questions as to why three laterals are mentioned all the time. So it is constantly mentioned, here you will soon have a meeting of foreign ministers, Slovenia, Italy and Croatia, and then at the top of the top of the three countries, and it is always said about what is there, why Slovenia is always involved in all talks and negotiations, so surely as a first, we must understand that we are part of a large family of Europeans, that this is becoming now and continuing after the ZERP to be still European sea, but also that Slovenia, regardless of being directly involved as the first neighbour, we have always included it in every way, even in this case. So I'd like to ask you one more time to explain in which segment, and why are there always three laterals, and not just us and Italy?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26567	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26568	Thank you very much for that question. Slovenia is our neighbouring country also a Adriatic country, an EU member, it is certainly important to have Slovenia there because it is also curious and wants information that it will have certain implications for Slovenia. ... the IGP declaration does not question the results of the arbitration with Slovenia which we do not recognise because it is precisely the arbitration that provided for the possibility that Croatia once declared the IGP and confirmed that it would not touch the solution provided for in arbitration. But there are other aspects that are beyond these, I think IGP is one of the achievements, I think the achievements of a little upgrade of ZERP, okay, I'm glad to see the consensus here today and that we'll all decide and accept it together, I'm glad, but there are other areas of cooperation, infrastructure there is an economy, etc., responsibility for protecting the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26569	Now let's go, Comrade Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26570	The IGP declaration is of course not a bold pro-active Croatian foreign policy, and it is not particularly an expression of HDZ's political genius that convinces itself that it is the very essence of the Croatian people's genius. What political instinct are you talking about? Your political instinct, your invaluable sense for a moment? Could Italy have asked you when to declare the economic belt, or perhaps it is Prime Minister Plenkovic's instinct for a moment as assessed by the moment of taking measures against covid.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26571	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26572	Thank you very much. I'd just say what you said would just say the other way around. Yes, the political instinct resulting from genius, the result of thinking about foreign policy, active Croatian diplomacy, that's exactly what I'm going to tell you because I know what I know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26573	Let's move on, colleague Posavec the Guilty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26574	Thank you, Your Honor. Ministers, you noticed well on 1 July 2013 when Croatia became one of the EU members and our Adriatic Sea became part of EU waters. By the fact that we have declared ZERP in our part of the Adriatic, we have protected and ecological and free to say in some way both economic and flora and fauna and all the potentials of the Adriatic. Where, according to what I see, there was a problem in the Adriatic Sea segment that was Italian and which was not protected or managed in a good way. So I'm interested in this particular segment when you said that consultations on the protection of the Adriatic Sea and sustainable management of it were carried out, I'm interested in what exactly means sustainable management, since 80% of the fishing is taken from the Adriatic area by the Italian fishermen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26575	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26576	Thank you very much. It's only a few minutes to tell you, but you've actually kind of confirmed European values, consultations that are the expression of a normal way of communication. I say, we don't live alone, we share the Adriatic, we're all responsible for protecting the Adriatic and flora and fauna, that's what someone here said well, you all talked about, protecting the Adriatic, sensitive eco system. For example... fishing is more geared to fishing activities, I'll just have one sentence from the internal territorial sea just about 1.5%, for example. the total Croatian catches achieved in the area, e.g. ZERP. The ZERP area, on the other hand, is extremely important for... tuna fishing. And now you have information that the data for the 2020 fishing season are. They speak of as much as 58.5% of the total national Croatian catch achieved in the area of ZERP. It should also be pointed out that in 2020 as much as 25.8% of total... /Speakers speak at the same time. /... a swimmer... achieved in international waters. .../Speakers speak at the same time. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26577	Minister, thank you. Time's gone, but you have a second answer. Now let's move on. Now we're going to connect with our colleague, Dark Taritash. I say hello. Do I hear from you? Here you go. [[I'll be in touch.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26578	That's a nice greeting. The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Minister. We in GLAS think that Croatia has a series of benefits with its EU membership and we are absolutely sure that this is good. We'll also support the IGP announcement, but when we have replicas then somehow we want to clarify some of the things you say in the opening statement. So I'm interested in the following, and that's at the end of your presentation you said by saying you had the conditions for declaring the IGP. I am interested in what conditions were that Croatia recognized, what conditions were important to Croatia, what were the conditions that you had communicated with all the ministers? Likewise in the opening statement you spoke about your communication with ministers, it is good to communicate. It's wrong if he doesn't communicate, if he doesn't communicate, then everyone lives locked up in their niche, they make their own decisions. Through communication decisions can only be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26579	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26580	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dark Taritash, here's how glad I am that you agree with me on communication and conversation. She was indeed one constant actually in my diplomatic activity and my colleagues and colleagues. So it didn't all start, it has one continuity. When we speak, the conditions are met, so I repeat again, you can never act unilaterally, so you need to talk because the protection of the Adriatic should be communicated in a way that you have an ally on the Adriatic. What would it mean if only Croatia declared IGP? Therefore, the common concern for the protection of the Adriatic is certainly Italian. So if you're just protecting one part of the Adriatic, that's not enough. So this is how we actually protect the Adriatic completely in all its parts and that's what matters. And this is a good story, a European story to give other countries a similar example.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26581	Thank you very much. Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26582	Dear Ministers, our Croatian sovereignty certainly looks forward to every move of state authority that extends and strengthens Croatian sovereignty in all its areas. However, we have very bad experience and on the existing ZERP, our coast guard and police and the Navy have had enormous problems to protect against illegal fishing, from the incursion of Italians, etc. How do you plan to protect and complete sovereignty, control over this sovereign area that we are about to determine with which ships, do we currently have only one ship this 'Faust Vrancic' that is able to control? European funds offer us certain opportunities to build a corvette, there are Italy, Spain, Greece, if anything is done? It's also part of a perspective that needs to be solved, what do you think?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26583	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26584	Thank you for asking. It is also an absolute contribution or actually an indicator in which this and the Croatian fishing fleet, which could certainly be a little stronger, but the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs as the bearer of this proposal will, together with the Ministry of Infrastructure, work on exactly how we would rightly strengthen that fleet. So, fishermen, Croatian fishermen, that's what strength and potential actually is in our economy, or actually in our agriculture, agricultural policy. And I think that somewhere around here we're going to get those funds we're going to get, we're going to be focusing on that part. But here, I think you should believe that, let's worry about it and that we're certainly optimistic and that it's certainly in our best interests and thank you again for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26585	And the last replica of my colleague Grumo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26586	Thank you. Dear Minister, I know it's not easy to make a salto mortal, claim for years that it's not necessary to declare an IGP, and now announce it solemnly, here to discuss it and then declare it. But let's be honest, let's not talk, please ask colleagues who voted to suspend Croatian sovereign rights for the ZERP suspension, let's be fair and let's say the IGP declaration is of great benefit to our fishermen. Why? The ZERP is now being harassed as in the Atlantic, and once we declare IGP to the middle, we will be able to determine the maximum amount of fishing in agreement with the European Commission, these are facts. Do not deceive the public, Croatia will get the right to edit things in its IGP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26587	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26588	Well, Mr. Grmoy, we absolutely agree only this one obviously you have a different one that you didn't understand me enough. Well, I'm sure this is, so this isn't some kind of thing right now, I figured it out like it's a ceremony or a parade, but these are all actually achievements of course, so these are all steps. I was talking about the first step, the second step, the third step, means or the graduation of actually power and upgrade actually, and the ZERP. Well surely it is actually the protection of this Croatian Adriatic, that protection is actually the Adriatic in the whole of our interest and Croatian interest, European interest. If you still have allies of Italy, and this Slovenia helps, then later you will distinguish it and see it with third countries, so it is the greatest success if you have all these countries on your side. And it is certain that, in fact, we are proud of our achievements, above all of the conversation and communication we have had. So here, I mean, we all agree together, I mean, I'm glad we recognize it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26589	Thank you Minister, no more replicas, so you can go to your seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26590	I'd only be if you'd let me...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26591	No, he can't. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26592	Mr. President, just this one, the government accepts two nomotechnical amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26593	Okay, you can do it, but you can do it, and everything's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26594	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26595	Let's delete the pay phone now, and then, after that, we'll just stop for a moment, because I'll call the committee's representatives if they want to take the floor. Comrade Cappelly, you were the board that was in charge here. Here you go. The Committee, therefore, President-in-Office of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Col. Gary Cappelli, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26596	Your Honor, Mr. President, thank you very much. So here is the Committee on Foreign Policy for the HS at its 4th session, held on 16 December 2020, discussed the proposal for a decision to declare the IGP of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea. Therefore, it is also very clear that the Croatian declaration of the IGP is an important issue for the control of the excessive capture of third countries and the adequate protection of Croatian fish, Croatian fishermen, and that the declaration of the IGP as well as Italian, the entire area of our Adriatic must finally be far more protected. So, considering the proposal for a decision to declare the IGP in the Adriatic Sea important for the Republic of Croatia after a debate was held unanimously with 9 votes to propose that the HS therefore also be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26597	Thank you, fellow Cappelly. Here is our chairman of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, dear colleague Bencic, and she also wants to show herself about the committee's position, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26598	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. First, I would like to thank both the exhibitor and Secretary of State Metelko-Zgombic, who presented this decision and its repercussions to us on the committee today morning, as well as the following steps that you have already heard from colleagues. What I would like to stress is that the Committee unanimously supported the report on consultations, also supported this proposal for a decision to declare the IGP in the Adriatic Sea and I wanted to highlight the dimension we discussed on the Environment Committee, which is, of course, the issue of specific protection of the Adriatic as a semi-closed sea and seas that are particularly sensitive. We have discussed the options that are now being opened with the IGP announcement and it has been stressed that this declaration may be considered to be some good start of cooperation with neighbours in protecting the Adriatic Sea and, in particular, in order to protect the fish fund as well as to examine the possibility of a specific regime for the application of European fisheries policy on the Adriatic, and also to protect the fish fund, but also to protect the interests of local fishermen. We welcome this decision and unanimously support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26599	Thank you. Comrade Petir also on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26600	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. The full report is on HS pages, the Agriculture Committee discussed yesterday the IGP's announcement in the Republic of Croatia. We exchanged views with representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also with representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, since we are the competent authority for fisheries affairs. It is clear that, with our protected ecological fishing band, this will be an additional form of protection, and the committee unanimously including representatives of all policy options has adopted a consultation report on the intention of declaring the IGP of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea and a proposal to declare the IGP of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26601	Thank you very much. Now we're going to go to a club debate. Here's just a few information before that, so we're going to work now until half past 12, and then we're going to take a break, then we're going to listen to the end of the free speech, it's going to be sometime by 1:45 or so, and then around 2:00 a.m., we're going to continue this debate, and at the end of this debate, we're going to have another statement on the amendments that have been in the past few days. Here's a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26602	Honored representatives of the government, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. It is profoundly symbolic, but significant and above all appropriate that we will declare about the 30th anniversary of the statehood of the Republic of Croatia the IGP on the Adriatic Sea. The bridge will support this decision to declare the IGP immediately without delay, open heart and arm realizing the exceptional, and I would say the far-reaching importance of the strategic-political importance of the IGP declaration. For years, the bridge persistently stressed, asked for the IGP to be declared, realizing then the importance, stressing that importance for all generations coming to the Republic of Croatia. the importance of the Republic of Croatia stressing its will and the desire to fully exercise the sovereign rights that belong to it on the Adriatic Sea. Kudikamo would have been more favourable if we had made this decision sooner, but we're going to support it now. Today's debate in my opinion is a special occasion, a day that will in a special way remain remembered and recorded in the history of Croatia's state and people. Therefore, the Bridge, with such dignity and an appropriate ceremony, will participate in this debate, and it is thus perceived as being truly extremely rare occasions and events for the state to extend its rights in some area. Such events and decisions are in principle unique and unrepeated and are always deeply cut into the collective memory of peoples and nations. We believe, and that's why we invite all the MPs to accompany it with applause tomorrow at the IGP's vote. Not to broadcast Italian MPs in their two-time parliament, but to thus express its destiny and authentic will of the Croatian people. The idea of declaring full, I would say the real IGP such as is recognised by international law of the sea is equally long and persistent and quite unjustly rejected, because of petty political opportunities, although the present is one of the most important state interests and such an interest that is lasting and impenetrable and will listen to generations. In doing so, the refusal was justified by a series of unsustainable shallow arguments, from the fact that the economic belt has nothing to do with the lack of adequate external-political context for its declaration in the neighbourhood. Both arguments were missing before, are equally missing today. Both arguments come from a narrow perspective that is limited I would say with a cheap political everyday life and which completely ignores Croatia's long-term perspective as a maritime state that draws its economic strength and grace from the sea this perspective during all that time simply did not like a discreet man know how to read the signs of time. Today and for the future, it's not important. No one will remember the current reasons or context or some Croatian awkwardness in this process that has led to its declaration right now. The future generations will remain only sovereign Croatian rights in the sea area of about 24,000 km2, which is not formally sovereignty but are Croatian rights outside the territorial sea, but this act, given its contents, can literally be qualified as an extension of the state territory of the Republic of Croatia. Today’s decision is the highlight of a series of historical factors and circumstances without which it could not be made. And look only at the borders of our IGP, they are based on an international treaty that was concluded between then Yugoslavia and Italy in the last century by a state that doesn't exist today, yet its effects are in force and are now more than half a century later. It is an international contract, the demarcation of an epicontinental belt relating to the seabed and the underground beyond the borders of the territorial sea. We are calling on this contract and it is the basis for the demarcation of the Croatian and Italian IGP. The act that we will bring today in our content is based on this act adopted more than half a century ago, which in itself is sufficiently signifiable when it comes to long-term, sustainableness, influence for the coming generations, and what influence such acts have on the future. Half a century ago, Yugoslavia did not accidentally distinguish its epicontinental belt from Italian. At one time in the world, Croatia had a strong discipline of international public law, and Croatian lawyers were one of the key factors in the design of the law of the sea and the formation of a vote of the Convention on the Law of the Sea, which our IGP is now relying on and because of which it has international and legal relevance. These lawyers were already aware before that the belt was then epicontinentally diverged for generations, not for the present, so we are today inheriting their concept of demarcation. Someone might say it's also mumbling somewhere, saying that today's debate is only possible because our neighbours in Italy are going to declare their IGP. The foreign policy belt has its importance, some say the context is all, others will determine that the context has no meaning because it is nominally one-sided decision. And those who are smarter will argue that the context was predictable, if everything that is happening on the European continent is observed, even in this Mediterranean area. However, even these debates that stand out too much and put the context first in the historical perspective will be completely insignificant and quickly forgotten. However, given our correctness and the special ceremony of today's occasion, we also expect you not to be blinded by the decoration of reality about the work of our diplomacy, the semi-falls of the IGP issue. And that can be discussed, but it's a topic for another, less solemn occasion. In the end, we have to ask a key question, do we know what we want with the IGP? Croatia is a nominal maritime state, but in reality we do not use our sea and its potentials and benefits, we do not protect even roughly to the extent that it offers them and offers them. Our ports even in the local Adriatic context have become second-rate, the future of our shipbuilding is still uncertain. The fishing fleets are decimated from relevant acts and documents show that Croatia has no power at the time of the IGP declaration for continuous physical presence in the area and these are real issues, these are challenges. These are questions, and we expect the answer from both this government and the future governments. And in the end, I'd like to finish with one lesson, the Istrian priest mons. Božo Milanović during the Paris Peace Conference '46-'47. in which he made a key contribution to the accession of Istria to the motherland in a conversation with Belgian Catholic journalist Walter Eberhard, "The smooth passages, the people remain," he said, something else that we must have in particular in mind today because of its special weight, he claimed "The borders are determined for centuries". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26603	Please now clear the pay phone and afterwards the respected colleague Zekanovic will speak on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26604	Here I must applaud even though I will say this was not a sincere applause because although Croatian sovereigns will support the declaration of the economic belt in this today's declaration, all the misery and misery of Croatian politics is manifested. Since 2003 and 2008, now in 2020, we will finally declare the IGP and only because the Italians have decided to declare it. Do you know when we would have declared him that the Italians hadn't decided to do that? Never, never. This government would never do that. But the key thing is that from this pay phone it must be emphasized because I see that some colleagues from the opposition don't understand, and also from the position. Nothing is changed by declaring the IGP in the context of fisheries and fisheries policies. So fishing policies don't change. In other words, the Italians are not crazy to agree to the Croatian declaration of the IGP, so that we prevent them from fishing in our part of the open sea, so they are not crazy. And Ministers to your question, I didn't get an answer for my question. Whether to continue fishing in the Croatian part of the open sea, international waters on which Croatia will, and you know it will, but there is one catch I have warned of many times and I have given the amendment and I have made a proposal for a conclusion. And I call upon you, dear Ministers, to put it into consideration or to accept it, and the conclusion is simple and then I will gladly clap here for 2 days, and I will really be proud of my government if you accept the argument that, or the conclusion that the HS obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to send a request to the European Commission for full protection of the IGP within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this decision from any other marine organisms. If they did, then they would have my support in every sense, would they show that you are a true sovereign, sovereign government. But you won't do it. My people, Croatia has 1185 islands, islands and rocks, and now we get the opportunity to build more new islands. Where? 12 nautical miles or 15 nautical miles away on the high seas of the last island. We could use that. We have a possibility in the IGP why don't we do it? We can also exploit the energy of the sea through the production of electricity with the help of waves, sea currents, tides and tides, I don't know, we're gonna do that? Well, of course not. The only purpose of the IGP is this second step. The only purpose of the IGP is this second step to fully protect it. But let me explain. He would then protect himself and disable fishing for both Croatians and Italians in the IGP. Is that okay with us? Well, of course it is because almost no Croatian fisherman or I say, rarely which Croatian fisherman is working in that area today because that area is devastated by Italians. And when you said the ministers here, you mentioned "Italians keep their accounts and protect the Adriatic" and then you wrote ha, ha, ha. Well, the Italians dug up your Adriatic submersibles with their cots, beat and killed, so they reduced the biodiversity of the Adriatic to zero almost. And they're doing it now only in our section and they're going to work both tomorrow and January when, when this is rightly done, they're going to still work. Let's stop it. But where's the Croatian interest? In that space, when it's protected, it's a graveyard. That's where the fish and other marine organisms are being reproduced, and 90% of these fish do you know where they're going? According to the Croatian coast, if Croatian fishermen could not spend fuel in our territorial waters waiting for fish, they would be much cheaper and much cheaper and it is Croatian interest and it is Croatian interest. Let's protect the IGP. It's not about my people's declaration, it's about protecting us because it's not a big day, it's a day of big fraud and deception again. Ministers, since you haven't answered my question on several occasions, and also on the clear question of the agriculture minister, she hasn't answered either. I read to you from your words that there is no chance of changing fishing policies. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please that this or the Croatian public is not the time to celebrate as some colleagues here pointed out. It is one of the biggest frauds where the struggle for sovereignty will be covered, the sovereignty will be played again by the Croatian state and Croatian sovereignty because the Italian chariots will continue to do whatever they want and nothing will change. I must once again point out how sorry I am that all these decades of the Croatian state, no government has had the courage to say to the EU let's be a sovereign state, let's protect that of ours. Just another little legal clarification. We agreed to this fishing regime you know when? When we entered the EU and it's concrete, here I am copying that part of the European Lisbon Agreement, and it's concrete and we can't change it because we agreed at that moment. And about our account here yesterday that counts as we earn more, 5 times more euros than we give the EU, no one counted, a billion kuna a year that we lose in our part of the IGP, as no one counted about a billion euros in losses due to the departure of our highly educated force every year. So we are at a great loss and I would like all relations in the EU or the EU to be reviewed first here. Let's talk about it. So let's not be crazy, let's not sell our sovereignty for someone's Brussels chair or someone's interest or some conversation. Dear Minister, I heard from you "I talked, I talked, I talked" We need decisions. I wish you had come here and said, we have informed our neighbours that in the first month of the EU Commission we will seek the protection of our IGP. But no, that didn't happen and that's not gonna happen. There's one more thing that's very important. The IGP today accounts for about 44.8% of our total sea divided into the inner sea, the territorial sea and the open sea, and we owe it to the Biodiversity Strategy by 2030 to protect, and thus 30% of our sea. We owe 30% protection. Let's do it with IGP. Minister, let's do this with the IGP. If we don't do this, this is one of the most sleazy attempts to deceive the Croatian public and pretend that the current ruling set is sovereignist, and in fact it looks exclusively towards Brussels what Brussels will command, so it will.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26605	Now, the minister reports, he would like to react to his counterpart Zekanovic's exposure. You have five minutes. Here you go. Just a minute to get rid of the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26606	as the original Croatian diplomat, you know, then it's hard for me to hear these words the most sleazy and so, then let me have my own emotions, but I respect and appreciate, Mr. Zekanovic your point of view which does not mean that they are arguments. The point of view doesn't necessarily mean that the arguments are, but actually, it was emotional and that was, I would say the expression of your political position, but the arguments are certainly different. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's say that we are a member of the EU, that we have the right, means sovereignty which, when you conclude a contract, means with some, you've already shared some obligations, there are certain obligations in the international community. So Croatia's entry into EU membership, but by taking over the acquis and fishing policy is the same legal gain, it's also important to know, so that we can't have total and demand total protection, I think, and a ban on fishing in any IGP because, I said, we as an EU member can hunt, say, and in.../incomprehensible/... there along the coast of Spain, etc. The government certainly knows how to protect Croatian interests and I think it would be true that it would not be politically correct or, I think, smart, so which official would not be in the interest to protect Croatian interests. And when you mentioned exactly the apple cauldron, let's just say, that's a good example where we initiated it, and we initiated the protection of the apple cauldron as the most important hideout. And precisely because we have a small fishing fleet. The Italians have stronger, and third countries, perhaps Albania also has stronger in the meantime, but they, they, they have so, are also being applied to the ZERP, and will be subject to the IGP. But of course they're actually a good example, that particular apple cauldron, and we're also going to initiate the protection of certain parts, when we're talking about the list, for example. as one endangered, I'd say kind, protection of parts, like the North Adriatic, so all of those parts actually, but that knows our science, so someone's dealing with it, research. So we can't just put it in principle. So that's absolutely when we talk about protecting the Croatian Adriatic. Croatian fisheries policies, then of course we have it all in mind. And what Mr. Petrov said, too, I may not have been really clear in some exhibitions, but we are already using all the values of the common fisheries policy, it is an absolute fact, it is a fact, we propose to the EU Commission, it means we, too, as a country that is authentic, which means there, the Adriatic, the Adriatic is still ours, so we are proposing the protection of the fish fund because we know what needs to be protected, we are hunting there, it is our sea, meaning by time and of course, and spatial constraints, meaning to all those factors, those tools that are at our disposal, means both the time and space limits of fishing in ZERP, and so we will do in the IGP. So that's not questionable. Mr. Zekanovic, I am, however, no matter how little you may have been like this, I have realized your well-meaning in all of this in the end. I think that you are well-intentioned, I say, the only thing I can't know is, when this, what, I know how much we invest and how much we sacrifice, not so that we can build ourselves, etc., we don't need anything, I'm proud, I'm proud to be, believe me, a Croatian diplomat, carry the interests of Croatia, national interests, it's an honor and a pleasure, and when I look at, you understand, these results, and you're making efforts, you know. Look out, he's in life and life is math. 0 plus 0 is vasda, always 0. But when you're making some efforts, they have to be rewarded. I can tell you now, so about these moves of ours, in the last few years, that we're going to have really great good results, in foreign policy, in international law, so all of this is kind of our successes. First of all, I said in conversation, talking is a nice word in conversation. Yes, I informed the ministers, I informed them of Croatia's intention to declare the IGP. Notify.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26607	Thank you. Now let's go with the replicas. Stay here, Minister. Minister, stay behind the pay phone. You've got replicas. It's the first one. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go. [[I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26608	Dear Minister, I really appreciate your efforts and I don't think you're lazy, I know you're working and I know you're capable of working. But at the moment you say you have arguments, and you don't say arguments, then you don't have them. I don't know if you understand me. I may have used this word "sliding" and "sliding" to figure out how much from my point of view, and I am well-intentioned, all these years and decades of poor Croatian foreign policy and it is real. But the facts here are extremely clear and again I ask you, will 12 nautical miles from my Jury fishing, Italian fishermen, Italian chariots be plowing the Croatian part of the IGP? Will it?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26609	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26610	I'm just telling you that, in fact, the Adriatic Sea is Croatian and Italian and Slovenian, etc., so at that point we're as a member of the EU, it's actually European waters when we enter the EU we are, the Adriatic Sea has actually become part of the European sea and legal gains. We, I tell you, will also be able to hunt in the Italian part, as the Italians will be able to hunt in the Croatian part. However, we will also be able to protect our seas by taking care of it, about the fish fund, recommending to the European Commission what I said to protect how to actually protect this highly sensitive ecosystem and fish fund. Absolutely, that is, I told you that as an EU member we can hunt, I don't know worse in the northern sea where Denmark is, where Germany is. So we can't isolate ourselves from all this now. I don't know what you meant by that. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26611	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26612	Dear Ministers, Article 238. No one is defending the Croatian government to board a spaceship and go to Mars, but it's not real, unfortunately I'll say, it's not real. But it's real and what you didn't say would still be Italian cots...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26613	A colleague of Zekanovic, where is, where is, where is, where is the injured Rules of Procedure interested me? Where's the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26614	238. Rules of Procedure, yes. He didn't answer my question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26615	What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26616	...will still be plowing around the Croatian part of the IGP and you know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26617	Have a seat, you get a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26618	And it's, it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26619	Please sit down, colleague Zekanovic, you are being warned. You showed no one at all that you had convinced anyone that the Rules of Procedure had been injured but that you had entered the controversy and replicated it. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26620	Thank you, Mr. President. I would answer to my colleagues, Mr Zekanovic, as you did, which is that changing the regime and the ZERP to the IGP and the ZERP and the IGP are common EU waters where the common fisheries policy is being implemented. And the protection of certain parts of the Adriatic and Apple boilers or other nests and growth sites of demerzal or natural species will be carried out in the interests of Croatia and in the interests of our fishermen and, as you said, Mr. Ministers Croatia is already 5 years old, a colleague of Zekanovic has gone away means that he is not interested in it at all, Croatia has protected the apple cauldron together with Italy because part of the apple cauldron is also entering their tomorrow's IGP. Therefore, it should not be protected where there is no interest but where the profession, science and the economic interest of Croatia say so, and that is what you rightly said.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26621	Here's your answer. You don't have to? Okay. Then let's go to a fellow Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26622	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, we heard an attack on the government to propose a declaration of the economic belt just because Italy had done it before. However, I went to the Italian Parliament's documentation, and there I found actually the opposite argument. It said Italy should declare an economic belt because, among other things, Croatia has already declared ZERP and thus set out to protect the Adriatic. On that point, I do not think such attacks lead to anything, I think that the opposite should be valorised that we have found a common language with Italy and that it is also good even though Slovenia has no right and will not have its own economic belt, but it is good to include it in this dialogue and to protect the Adriatic on that trail and, of course, protect the Croatian interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26623	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26624	Thank you very much. Here's exactly on the trail of this, I'm sorry that it's not Mr. This, I think, that Kuzmic from SDP when he talked about Italy as well, we seem actually ready to announce him tomorrow, but that's why we're asked to wait for this Italian side. That means we're ready, but Italy's not ready and you've seen it well. So, then, it's all this thing that's still talking, but it's one deal. So on Saturday, the day after tomorrow, we'll sign a trilateral statement. It must still be the result of a certain agreement. We have to build good neighbourly relations. No question that you enter into is unilaterally so one-sided, even if it can be well-intentioned, but if you haven't done it in quality and negotiated it can actually imply very bad relationships, and we don't want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26625	Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26626	Thank you. So this is because we've had ZERP since 2003. I want to know what you have specifically done in terms of defining the ecological maximum of extractions that could have helped reduce the quota for other fishing fleets from other EU Member States, have you gone in an attempt to define such an ecological maximum of fishing? And second question, please tell us what is the amount of fish that the Croatian, Croatian fleet catches in other seas outside the Adriatic annually? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26627	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26628	Well, thank you very much, but in this one minute that I would really have your numbers out of my sleeves, that's certainly a profession, the profession very well knows my job is a diplomat, the head of diplomacy, means to make sure that all these policies are in line, to defend Croatian interests, and certainly that the Ministry of Agriculture has helped us very much, as well as some other ministries, but we were actually talking about the same, about the orientation of a renewable energy source, as soon as you are interested, that so-called. Green Deal, so, what is really important about the European Green Plan, which sets out the obligation to legally protect 30% of the EU's marine areas and at least 10 areas of the EU's sea under strict protection regime, I think that this is also an ecosystem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26629	Here you go, fellow Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26630	Can I ask for a break? I'd like to ask for a break in 10 minutes to consult on what you just told us, you told us, which is that you don't have any information on one of the key issues that we're declaring IGP. [[Intruder: You can, yes.]] So the question of the fish fund, the protection of the fish fund, but also the protection of the interests of local fishermen is, in my opinion, one of the key questions why we went to ZERP and why we went to IGP. When we talk about an argument as to why it is important for us to protect this fish fund, then of course, we must have data that is the capacity ratio and strength of our fishing fleet, against other EU fishing fleets, or how much ours are even able to use that possibility that you keep telling us, and ours can hunt in other seas, if we can't even use it because of our capacities. Well, that's a key argument for any entry into any negotiations, and it's strange to me that you don't know, you don't have the information, and you're going to negotiate with the IGP, that you don't have as much information as our fishing fleet catches in the seas outside the Adriatic every year. Well, we don't die without it. You have to have that information. So I want to discuss through this break whether we are entering this process with arguments, data and clear objectives of protection and economic and environmental interests of the Republic of Croatia or if we are going because that frog saw the horse going under. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26631	Can I ask you, we have five more replicas to finish the replicas, then take a break? Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Of course.]] Comrade Kuzmanić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26632	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, I will not use this ugly terminology that some have said, I hope it is really not in the interest of anyone to do contrary to the interests of the Republic of Croatia and I want to believe that the government is working in the right direction, however, as it is possible that something that you have refused categorically before, when the opposition proposed it, now you accept it, you suggest and I think it is extremely hypocritical to set an example that Croatian fishermen can now fish in Spain. So we know that our fleet of fishermen has destroyed bad politics. People were given money to destroy their fleet of 100, 200 thousand euros to destroy the ship,.../incomprehensible/... from EU funds to destroy our fleet, we all know that Croatia has a richer fish fund than Italy, but Italy has a much stronger fleet than Croatia. And we don't have any interest in that. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] Croatian brakes won't stop [[Intruder: Thank you.]] in Spain. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26633	Yes, you do. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26634	And thank you very much. There he is, Mrs. Devereaux. Bencic, so I was talking about it at the very beginning, the opening presentation, actually that we're building on ZERP because we're also in ZERP, so it's European water, we could collage, so we could fish in European waters, and the Adriatic Sea is European, are European waters. What is really important is that we, with this IGP, are strengthening this common fisheries policy in the Adriatic Sea and, of course, create conditions for sustainable fishing. That's what matters. So sustainable fisheries protection of the fish fund, we have the right to monitor the implementation of the rules of the common fisheries policy, which we have, we have, this we have, in the ZERP and with cooperation, of course, within all other multiple international contracts. Protect and regulate the issue of fishing in the area of the sea, which are both now and under the ZERP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26635	Thank you. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26636	On the basis of the question, therefore, if you are talking about sustainable fisheries and how it will be possible for this fisheries to be sustainable, what we are constantly asking you on this side, how it will be sustainable, whether it will not be sustainable in the way that we will be the ones who will take care of environmental sustainability and that this is about our side, in some way, being responsible for sustainability, and on the other hand we have no responsibility at all. When you asked.../incomprehensible/... when you answered my first question, you said that the EU Commission can now set quotas, here we ask you when it will determine quotas and what remains irresponsible and fellow Brumnic, so it is quite clear from the media, that Italy has come to this decision before Croatia and that it has led to certain interests. Among other things, what was mentioned several times, our fishermen were destroying their ships, while the Albanian fleet was growing, there are indications that Italy was just about to do this. That's what he decides. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26637	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26638	Thank you, Mr. Peovic. I did not say that the EU commission will prescribe quotas neither it does so nor in the Mediterranean Sea, let alone in the Adriatic Sea. It's, you have in the Atlantic Ocean, etc., that's another thing. But what is very important means when you have Italy that enters as a country together with Croatia, it will have the same rules as Croatia will. So the Croatian rules will apply equally to the Italians. That's what matters. So we are actually protecting the common Adriatic Sea. If only one country had done it, it wasn't enough. So, the moment has been struck, bravo, I'm just saying this, when those conditions have been met. So you can protect the Adriatic, not just you, but you have to have an associate actually. This is the land with which we share the longest coast, i.e. the Adriatic Sea. That's the way to look at it, you know. And we protect the fish fund together and The Adriatic Sea. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26639	Comrade Cappelly, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26640	Dear Ministers, we know that this programme has been prepared together with the Ministry of Agriculture, therefore, the Croatian Government has all the data, it is known that some 65,000 tonnes of fish are being fished annually, so in the area we are all talking about, with all the money made by Croatian fishermen, it is worth 380 million, and 15% of that catch is in the area of ZERP. We will also propose the EU's ecological maximum and agree with the EU, which is an ecological maximum and we will certainly have the opportunity to propose and to have in this sense the possibility to limit what is possible to limit and protect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26641	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26642	Thank you very much. It is, thank you very much, Mr. Cappelli, well, it is exactly the coordination of this, as well as the parliamentary representatives and you who were Minister of Tourism, that is, all bodies of the state administration, the competent ministries, above all, so that this result which has actually done Croatian diplomacy would not be possible without these ministries which, above all, are the seas, infrastructure, traffic, and here, thank you for this information. But of course, I mean, a lot of things certainly have what is actually science, which is actually experts, experts have established before, finally and above all, when we declared ZERP, and especially now that we're going to declare IGP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26643	Comrade Katičić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26644	The Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister. Well, here's the IGP, and they finally have the conditions to declare that belt that is based, of course, in the Chapter of the V of the International Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Law of the Sea of the Republic of Croatia. I would just like to point out that this is not just about fishing and fishing, it is about other issues that will be regulated by this IGP, such as. Protecting the environment from irresponsible shipowner behaviour. And to all those who object to these, it can be said that this government and this Parliament will have the strength to declare the IGP, and my question, among other things, is whether further negotiations will protect the fisheries regime, including the so-called. Fishing boilers, deep-dwelling boilers?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26645	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26646	Yeah, yeah, thanks anyway. Yeah. I didn't really understand you. Are we going to protect...? So we're certainly going to protect, that's exactly this, that epicontinental belt, certainly so the underground, so the seabed, we're going to definitely, it's going to go actually deeper and deeper towards the Italian side. [[/Employment: Fishing in deep sea boilers?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26647	Thank you. Let's go to the last line, dear colleague Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26648	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Minister, today you have pointed out several times that the Adriatic, Croatian sea, is actually European. It's true, today it's European, there you haven't made a mistake. It is European because of the cowardly policies led by the HDZ, Ivo Sanader and Jadranka Kosor. You also said that Croatian fishermen can, as well as Italian fishermen in the Italian part, as they can in Croatia. That's true. You're about to say that Croatian brake fleets, i.e. The Croatian fleet does not have the capacity to fish out in the open sea, which is what colleagues here have mentioned, which has been destroyed with EU funds and we are today in a position to ask the EU Commission to protect the Croatian seas.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26649	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26650	Thank you very much. Oh, well, actually, what you said, EU membership was actually our foreign policy priority. You, when we talk about the Adriatic Sea, it is not the European sea, it is the European sea, it is the EU's waters, so by joining the EU, except that we have accepted, of course, and we have rights, we have very much rights and opportunities, we share equally this, with the Member States, we have the same corresponding obligations, as every other EU member state has, but within the EU we certainly know how to defend our own interests. Because we, like, first of all, need to know what our own national interests are, if you know them, then you know how to defend them properly. So, this intention to declare the IGP, I assure you, was not an accident.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26651	Thank you, Minister. We're done with the replicas. Now, as I announced, we'll take a break by 12 o'clock and 10 minutes. Then he continues his colleague Bacic from HDZ. You're welcome to take a vacation. It's 11:51 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26652	We're moving on with the clubs. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12:12 A.M.]] It is now up to the Club of Representatives of HDZ and Mr Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26653	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers, respected secretary of state, respected assistant ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. We're discussing the IGP procedure. The IGP itself was defined by the 1982 International Convention on the Law of the Sea. which came into force if I am not mistaken in the early 1990s when it was ratified by the required number of UN member states. Why do I mention 1982? Because it has been going on in the world since then among the United Nations coastal Member States, and on the basis of this document, the process of declaring the IGP or its derivatives. Some country has declared an ecological zone, some fishing zone, we're in 2003. On October 3rd, we declared the ZERP with which we accepted the belt almost entirely, I would say 99% of all IGP content. Why do I keep saying that? Because there was time and during that country, the SFRY possibility of declaring IGP, there was the possibility of declaring IGP after the revulsion and international recognition of the Republic of Croatia, there were opportunities for IGP and after 2000, there were opportunities to declare the IGP even after 2013. when we have become a member of the EU, but serious states and their leadership, each step primarily implements in international policy in such a way as to measure how much this step will contribute to the establishment of all those strategic goals that the people want to achieve when they become independent and sovereign. And without delay, we can say, without delay, that it is 1990. when we were attacked and when we were creating our own state, we measured whether at that moment, and given the need to establish ourselves in the international community, to meet all strategic goals that would be much harder to set up without understanding the international community. Was it then, for example, a moment among other things for the IGP announcement, so that we did not then establish, and there was again a weigh-down at the time of the first SDP government of Ivica Racan, who on the eve of the election of HSS as her then coalition partner declared this ZERP, but at a time of a year, not how the other night in "Open" your minister was replicating me, so it was strange for me that the foreign minister when he proposed the document did not know when he was due to enter into force. No, Mr. Picula wrongly said that ZERP was to enter into force on October 3, 2005, but in 2004, which I told him there, but now more or less, so even then when ZERP was declared he should have had one break of a year. Then the elections came into being a new strength finding and we are then and we need to say this, weighing between one side of the ZERP declaration and the entry into force for both EU member states and our strategic goal of becoming a full member of the EU, and knowing that this declaration would very quickly lead to the blockade of these same negotiations, we then decided between one and the other, and there was a consensus in the Croatian political space between the two major parties, so on. The Alliance for Europe to then go into suspension to a fisheries partnership agreement between Croatia and the EU to declare a ZERP which would then also apply to EU Member States. I think that as many today as some who did not exist as a political party, or who existed in the political sky of Croatia are trying to say that we were wrong. We didn't. Yesterday's debate speaks best and seems to have been struck and aligned with today's debate. Yesterday, here in HS, we found that for the next seven years of this same Europe that we entered thanks to the fact that we led a wise policy and did not jump out of a European spirit to agree on something which will be a common sea when we enter the EU we have achieved our goal here in the Assembly yesterday that we will have 24 billion euros available in the next seven years, and when we subtract our national component we have 140 billion kuna left at our disposal for the next seven years, and that is one budget of the Republic. In the next seven years, Croatia will have eight instead of its seven budgets because one budget will come from developed EU Member States, which I am not sure that we would be where we are today if we had then unilaterally declared IGP or ZERP as well for EU Member States. A team more, which is March 8, 2008. This is where the Commissioner of the European Commission for Enlargement came to Croatia and clearly told us to be careful when, when ZERP was already in force and kept the EU members for a short period of two and a half months and also referred to the EU Member States because we declared it on 15 February, 15 December 2006. With a year's escalator again, and then we heard very carefully what Mr. Rehn said, and if he were right, it tells us that we were due to a similar maritime project, the process of establishing a border with neighbouring Slovenia was blocked, but that the blockade was around ZERP at the time I am not sure or sure that we would not finish negotiations within the deadline and that we would be back on that same hilly Balkans today, and that some and that would be a special message to those who are drilling in their quasi, quasi-supervist, sovereign, sovereign breast. Therefore, I am sure that we have not made a mistake both today and as we have achieved independence and sovereignty in the 1990s, as we have entered the UN, as we have entered the Council of Europe, as we have entered NATO, so we have entered the EU and we have the IGP and we have the IGP, although at this point ZERP, as I have told you that since 2013. relations with EU Member States in that fishing aspect, and we are not losing anything there. And the answer is to Mr. Zekanovic, Croatia cannot today ban the Republic of Italy from their fishermen hunting in our future IGP, nor can the Italians to us, nor can the Italians to the Greeks, nor can the Italians to the French. Therefore, we have established all our national, national, strategic objectives and we have an IGP, which is why we need to lead a wise, wise policy. The greatest value at this point in the IGP announcement is that we bring it together because as a state, it doesn't just have to be important for us to have IGP, but it has to be important for us to protect the Adriatic. That's why you bring the IGP, not that it's an IGP for itself. IGP is being brought in to protect the Adriatic, and without the IGP declaration by our overseas neighbor Italy we do not protect the Adriatic. And while, and the message that my colleague Stier said earlier, there is no running behind us in the Italian Parliament, because they have protected their share in both ecological and fishing terms, but we are running after them because we do not have it and because in our sea they can hunt whoever they want and whenever they want and with whatever boat and tool they hunt, they hunt in our sea, and in theirs they can't. It's the guilt that we're imitating someone by doing this than we can say that someone might imitate us, that's the first thing. And another thing, that the Italians will declare the IGP, that part of the open sea that will tomorrow be their IGP will close for Albanian, Algerian, Turkish fishermen, and that is the value of this, and that is why I said earlier to the Minister, that is the value of what we are doing in the European spirit that I have said 100 times here in the European spirit in growing or encouraging these inter-state good neighbourly relations and it is important for me and it is important for me to participate, is the Republic of Slovenia, although it does not have the possibility of declaring its ZERP. Thank you. So, we'll at the club accept this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26654	Thank you very much. Mr. Sinisha Hajdash Doncic will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26655	Thank you, Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. So a country's strategic goal cannot be to enter certain integrations, it can be a means to achieve a specific strategic goal. I think the strategic goal in Croatia should be to say a high level of income, to live in a good society, etc. Now let's get back to the business belt. So I would like to remind the debate of a few facts and try to make some of the key concepts conceptually clear. So let's talk about some of the facts that even Mr. Bacic mentioned here. HS declared the Protected Ecological Fishing Belt in a people known as ZERP on 3 October 2003, then the president of the Croatian government was, today, pok. Ivica Racan, and the ruling majority with junior partners, some of them were sitting here at that time being run by the SDP. And now one quote: “In the context of ZERP has already enabled a large level of protection of Croatian interests, here are now some additional measures such as the exploitation of the energy of the sun, wind and the construction of artificial islands. ” Therefore, there is another conclusion to the quote: “There are therefore other additional contents, but in fact in terms of protection and what is now important will not, unfortunately, make any significant changes to the ZERP. ” Why? It's already in effect, for example 17 years, the area of ZERP is 23,870 square kilometers, so much is the area of the economic belt, I'm speaking in terms. The ZERP therefore covers the sea space from the outer border of the territorial sea towards its external border, or to the line of demarcation with Italy, so this area will also cover the economic belt. The ZERP declared by the Republic of Croatia in 2003 therefore supports the content relating to the sovereign rights and research and exploitation, conservation and management of living natural resources, so beyond the external border of the territorial sea, as jurisdiction means in terms of scientific research of the sea and conservation of the marine environment, and in which all countries enjoy international rights guaranteed freedom of navigation, overflight, laying down submarine cables, pipelines, so all that is actually internationally legally permitted through the use of the sea. So you also have an economic belt. So 90% of the content is already covered by ZERP. For fishermen, and that's what I mean by my colleague Skoro, so some Shimu I can say the same things to some of my colleagues that I know, so adding those 10 contents won't absolutely happen. Why? Because all of this is covered by the ZERP and is covered by the quotas set out in Brussels at EU level, therefore both Italian and Greek and Slovenian fishermen will be able to continue fishing in the Croatian economic belt as they were able to fish in the ZERP as well. On the other hand, and as a member of the ZERP, we have an obligation to prevent other non-European fishermen, so we can prevent Chinese... it's just a question of how we're going to do it. So, it is also perhaps my dear Ministers better for Croatia to abandon those post Trump's policy of the three seas and to provide funding through the HBOR for some initiatives than to turn to our sea and to strengthen through those funds to our fleet and to protect the Adriatic Sea. Now, ZERP was also good on paper only the question of whether or not we'll be able to implement the economic belt in the way it's imagined. So if we're going to watch it so far, it's not the IGP, it's the ecological zone, and this moment when it's declared probably... The RH that some of the speakers pointed out in front of me to declare theirs. But come on, now we have some legal clarity that I welcome in general, but not some euphoric declaration so far of some unseen form of sovereignty, so let's not deal with euphoria. Today when we have as many as 70 unfortunately dead when we all have to deal with what's now and what's going to happen in two, three months after the covid crisis when we see that there's no concept, so we go back to the real focus. This is one tool that Croatia could use in some part and so far, the question of how it used it. So the SDP will support the declaration of course, as Minister Radman said, in line with the partners from the EU, there will be nothing in the way of the opposition. And in the end, remember that I started with a quote, and you know whose quote it was? From President Jandrokovic, so I quoted his quote at the opening, his quote to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26656	Mrs. Sandra Bencic will speak on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26657	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honors Minister, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'd say at the beginning that the history of IGP's advocacy has been moving since 2001. And that even then we actually heard different arguments very similar to those we hear today, almost 20 years after that. And I think it would be okay to think of an advocate who most advocated the IGP with whom we may not be ideologically in the same positions, but we believe that he had very good arguments for the IGP, which is Tonci Tadic, who then said 20 years ago that we would declare the economic belt only when Italy was no longer the strongest fleet on the Adriatic and when it would actually be necessary for them. And here's really 20 years after that, that's exactly what's going on. So it's not just that there's been a major change in policy on the economic belt on Italy's initiative, the fact is that the impact of the IGP would be smaller if it didn't work at the same time and Italy, it all stands, but the fact is also that we didn't have a proactive role in it, and it's even worse that after the ZERP declaration we missed to take advantage of everything that ZERP had allowed us to do. So, when we look at the differences between ZERP and what we get with IGP, we can say that these are our key economic interests, which is protecting the fish fund, protecting the interests of our fishermen and our fishing fleets could also work through ZERP, but there was no political will to do so. We have not participated in parliamentary work in the Green-Left bloc so far, nor in these discussions, but we have certainly followed them as activists. What I can say is that certainly sounds cynical when the minister says that the issue of fishing and the rights of our fishing fleet is not in any way threatened because they could also fish in the North Sea, the Atlantic, etc. Well, if they could, they could have done it on paper. But what could they have been fishing for there? What capacity did we give them for it, how much money did we get from the Fisheries Fund for it? The note is not the smallest fund within all of the EU funds we have had in this financial perspective, very small, plus we have also encouraged the natural reduction of that fishing fleet. And then when we ask questions if this is an argument that our fishermen can fish anywhere else, and when we ask the question well how many fishermen, how many fishermen outside the Adriatic, then the minister answers us that there is no such information, that they enter the negotiations on the IGP without that information, that we do not know how much we benefit from European fisheries policy, and how many other countries benefit from it in the territory of the Adriatic Sea in the area where we will be in the IGP. Well, I think that's the basis for me to argue for any negotiations to know where we're going, what we're going to do with these negotiations. What we are looking for in the green-left block and what we have been looking for from the position of civil society organisation already in 2016. when there was a Law on concessions in the debate, then we asked to give priority to the introduction of social criteria in public procurement and to give priority to local fishermen, local fishing cooperatives and associations in obtaining these concessions. Why? In order to enable them to engage in sustainable fishing on islands and thus actually ensure the sustainability of the island. The amendment of course did not go away because most who are today voted against it. Why am I stressing this moment? Well, for reasons why, what we actually get with IGP we didn't have in ZERP is building artificial islands. So we haven't been able to protect either the islands, or the islanders that we have, so I sincerely hope that we will first go to protect them and the sustainability of life on the islands of the present, and then just build the infrastructure if ever necessary, hopefully not for so-called. artificial islands. So let's take a step back and say okay we're all for declaring IGP, but let's start taking advantage of those mechanisms that we've had with ZERP because of the last 20 years. We didn't use it. What else do we have to use here, what is wrong with us, what does the aspect of Croatia matter to us? We need an agreement from all the Adriatic countries on the protection of the Adriatic as a particularly sensitive area. This implies not only that we finally determine the ecological maximum of extractions which, for our benefit, is better that it is as small as possible, as smaller as possible, that in full capacity our fishermen can use it, not that it is redistributed to other countries. It's the first thing and, of course, to protect the fish fund in the Adriatic. The second thing we need to do with our neighbours, or with all the countries in the Adriatic, is start the process of getting out of the exploitation of fossil fuels in the Adriatic. So if we have already agreed to the European Green Plan, if we have agreed to climate goals, let us first show what this means in terms of research and exploitation of oil and gas in the Adriatic? And let's be leaders of that. Let's not wait for Italy or any other country, let's be leaders because it's in our best interest. And now we have concrete European policies that we can call upon. Furthermore, we have so far not taken advantage of sustainable, renewable energy sources, we have not taken advantage of even the opportunities that provide us with the existing islands that we have, we do not need to build artificial ones for that. So we haven't even done a solarization of the existing islands that are inhabited. The capacity in that part is huge, let's invest first. Furthermore, we wanted to say that it is extremely important to take advantage of this issue that the IGP at the same time declare Italy and Croatia and open discussions on other issues of the protection of the Adriatic, and not only of the fish fund, which is a matter of wastewater, this is a question of general waste that is delayed in the Adriatic, it is also a matter of regulation of ballast waters and the release of ballast waters in the Adriatic which are very sensitive to the ecological balance. Also protecting, protecting the life of the world in the Adriatic that we are seeing now, you have seen, for example, Periska as much as at risk, and we also think it is important that the issue of solving the problem of micro plastics in the Adriatic Sea is one of the future flicks of EU projects for this period between 2020 and 2030. The question of micro plastics is global, global problem and global question. The Adriatic has just been designated by many scientists as a potentially good pilot because it is a semi-closed sea. I will stress that we have scientists who are the top in this area and that it is just one Croatian citizen who unfortunately left Croatia and as far as I know now is in the Netherlands, the innovator is actually the owner of innovation that can be applied to cleaning micro plastics from all the seas in the world and many are interested in it, only our government has not yet invited him to talk to him and to see if we can do so as a pilot in the Adriatic. I would appeal for it to be done anyway. So now we get a stronger mechanism for protecting our interests in the IGP, but I appeal that this is just the beginning, not to say that this is the end of the story, this is the beginning of protecting the Adriatic, so not only in the area of the fish fund, which is certainly our priority, but let's make a decision that we will really protect it in a way that we will no longer exploit fossil fuels and that we will impose an important priority on countries, not EU members, in the Adriatic to respect environmental rules because we have not yet done so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26658	You, too. We've got two more clubs, and then we're going to take a stand and then we're going to continue with individual debates. Now it's Mr. Milan Vrkljan, the House of Homeland Movement Representatives' Club, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26659	Dear Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I am pleased to say at the outset that the Homeland Movement of Miroslav Skora will support this proposal by the ruling IGP, but I must also say that I do not agree with what some of my predecessors have said that we should be very proud of what we are, today we are discussing tomorrow and there is no need for any celebrations, no solemn departments, no flowers on the lapel, because neither we have contributed to the position of the IGP, so we cannot have any merit. And for the sake of history, and for that reason, he would say the objective information of the Croatian population should be said that the very idea of marine space protection was launched by a small Malta in the last century before the UN and that afterwards all UN countries accepted it in order to '82. The elected Convention on the Rights of the Seas, which even meant that Malta was accepted and the resolution to be requested, insists on all countries to declare their premises protected around their coastal parts, so that it is '82. to regulate the system primarily in the Mediterranean because there was not so much interference in other seas, such as the countries of South America, Africa, North America and the Far East without any major problem, so that they declared territorial, territorial waters 12,000 miles away, and even 200 miles away, this protected area of their economic interest. However, in '82. The Convention on the Rights of the Sea was voted where it was placed on paper that, that the territorial seas were 12 miles, IGP 200 miles and it was a good practice which began to be applied to protect all seas. What remained disputed and where our Italian neighbours kept us until the moment we joined the EU in one unfavourable position, is that all countries were obliged to propose quotas, and since we were a European country, regardless of what we were then in the EU, we had to propose quotas for fishing in the Adriatic, and those quotas if we couldn't use we were obliged, we had to make available to the neighbouring country, in this case Italy. Otherwise, relations between Italy and this other side of the Adriatic have tried to regulate itself in '68. when the former state of Yugoslavia and Italy signed a demarcation agreement and I think it may be one of the strongest points that Croatian diplomacy should take advantage of in the upcoming time of negotiations with Italy because I am not sure that their intentions are as honorable as we would think, and especially not to come to the solemn departments with a flower on the lapel. And for the sake of correction, this left-hand side of this parliament of ours says that certain legal activities started in 2003 and 2004, and the strangely right side which, which should get up immediately, I expected at least 10 of your replicas, you kept quiet, you just typed on your phone and you don't care at all what you're saying. You should be defending Franjo Tudjman because Franjo Tudjman was in '94. and his government said that Croatia has 26,000 km2 of sea-covered territory, and if you remember then there was a controversy and then it was debated almost a year ago and it was built into certain legal acts then that Croatia had the right to declare a sovereign, sovereign right which was then debated gave this sovereign right or the right to rule. And until 2004, '03-4. It was dead. Why? Because it was "Storm" and on the other hand, the late president of health was so bad that he no longer had the strength to push some projects and I'm sorry that you HDZ have gone beyond that absolutely no one has responded. It's your history. At the very least, I was HDZ at the time, and that's my history, but I remained sensitive to it unlike you. 2008 ZERP, which has been binding on EU countries, has been adopted, and this is where all the misery of Croatian politics and diplomacy is seen. Exactly 1.1.2008. Croatian Parliament, you have made the decision that Croatia declares ZERP. Very shortly after that, Olli Rehn 7.3.2008 comes to Croatia and the Croatian government headed by Sanader, saying that under the urgent abandonment of the parliamentary voted declaration and man would expect that we will have little more spine because of this historical knowledge that we know who Italy is and that Italy has historically acted on this area, but unfortunately 7 days after Olli Rehn's arrival in Zagreb HS has subdued to the Croatian government once again the declaration of which we both give up both the countries and the EU and outside the EU have the right to the old regime, or ZERP itself has been annulled. And that should be a clear word in this House, and I am sorry that this is not what our right-hand side is saying that Croatia was then valued and has the logic to be valued because we were being blackmailed, we could not join the EU. Before '13. If we had managed to implement ZERP, Italy would have paid a certain fee for the fish caught, it no longer makes sense after entering the EU. And now, what's Italy's interest in now declaring ZERP? Italy has its own interest and interests are eternal. Croatia is unfortunately not able to do so. And while Italy plays a game in southern Italy against Albania, the Croatian public is trying to convince us that we are playing a match equal to the Italians. That's just not true. But everything is good that explains things to the Croatian public. So let's say we first met that after 30 years. The existence of the Croatian state that the Croatian fleet is so miserable that the Italians are completely insignificant and that it threatens Italy more, imagine an Albanian fishing fleet that is now four times larger than the Croatian national fishing fleet. 30 g. We created a Croatian state and brought Croatian fishermen and Croatian fleet to the position that Albania is four times stronger and more catchable. It's a sad fact. And what are the dangers to the Republic of Croatia and the mission to our ministry? It is that we must guard the political elites in Croatia, I will not mention and return to Biscevic, Sanader and Mesic, that we must guard the political elites from the EU because they are subject to great ones, we are not, that we must make sure that there is a distinction between the former state and Italy in '68. and that this is the starting point where we defend our interests and that we must not allow Slovenia to impose a new border on us at this machete and moment of exaggeration. What would be the cure for all this? It is that Croatia is voting for quotas that will be enough for us, not to fight for the high quotas that will be used by the Italians.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26660	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26661	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President HS, the esteemed secretary of state, I don't think the minister has any, I don't see well, and I'm sorry, and the minister is here, so the minister with the secretary of state, I had the feeling that he was gone, his colleagues and his colleagues. In a media report on the decision to declare the IGP in the Adriatic Sea, I read a statement from a Savudrian fisherman who said "the shaking hills were born a mouse" and I think that fisherman from Savudrija probably chose the best possible sentence to describe the situation around the IGP. According to our Maritime Code of the Republic of Croatia, in the economic belt, sovereign rights are exercised in order to explore and exploit, preserve and manage living and inanimate natural resources, and to produce energy through the use of sea, sea currents and winds. Also in the economic belt, the Republic of Croatia has the exclusive right to build, allow and regulate the construction, work and use of artificial islands that I deeply hope will never be in the Adriatic, devices and appliances at sea, seabed and in the sea underground. What I think is particularly important is the provision that the Republic of Croatia is working with neighbouring countries to adopt and implement measures to protect and preserve living marine resources in the area of the economic belt. The Adriatic Sea is absolutely and without any doubt one of the most valuable natural resources available to Croatia. When we look in the context of the world seas or when we look in the context of the Mediterranean, we are actually a single bay, but as far as we are concerned, the Adriatic Sea is an extremely important resource and it seems to me the same way that we have relied a little too much on it. However one of our basic obligations as a state and as a people is to protect and protect the Adriatic Sea as much as possible and it should always be kept in mind. In this, we must also co-operate with our closer and further neighbours with whom we share this shared wealth, Slovenia, Italy, BiH, Montenegro, Albania. In this regard, it is good that the whole process of the declaration takes place in collaboration with the neighbours and will be finalised after a trilateral meeting of Croatia, Slovenia and Italy in January next year. In terms of the protection of the Adriatic and the use of its resources, cooperation with the Italian Republic is particularly important. Italy is our closest neighbour with whom we share most of the Adriatic, and it is a large and successful EU member and we often forget for some reason. It is the 8th strongest economy in the world and the 3rd Union economy. In other words, the economic giant in our immediate neighborhood with which we share the most valuable resource we have. So it must be a good idea for such procedures to be co-operated, and I have no doubt that if this cooperation continues we can achieve a lot of things even though there is a need to be realistic and remember where we live. Croatia is not the world's 8th economy, nor is it 3rd in the EU. Unfortunately, and this has been confirmed by Eurostat in his latest report these days, we are in economic terms the 2nd worst country of the Union. We cough in the dust in which even Romania left us, and from the last place so far only Bulgaria saves us. That's what I'm saying because it needs to be realistic in various estimates of how the announcement of the economic belt will suddenly start pouring millions into the state register. Theoretically, it may be possible, but I repeat, it needs to be realistic about real opportunities, given where we live and who leads us. Speaking of who's leading us, IGP's been working on an interesting political network for years because it's about 2.5 years ago. The same government replied at the time to the proposal to declare the IGP that this was not necessary. They've concluded that nothing's actually going to change because we have a ZERP. The ZERP, or protected ecological fishing zone, has also declared the coalition government of the late Prime Minister Racan, and indeed along with the Epicontinental Belt regime, many of the rights and contents of the IGP and the exclusive economic belt have been fulfilled, except for so many times mentioned in the construction of artificial islands for which every time someone mentions them, I will repeat now, deeply believe that in the Adriatic there will never be any production of energy from sea, sea currents and winds, with the right to build installations for research and exploitation of seabeds and underground installations, e.g. through the continental belt regime. Research platforms, oil and gas exploitation, maybe even one of those now you see me, now you don't see me like Ivana... It's a joke on the side. The government then interpreted that there would be absolutely no difference for Croatia if we declared the IGP compared to ZERP and the epicontinental belt. Fishing takes place only in accordance with the EU's common fisheries policy, and energy cannot be produced by means of waves and currents at this level of technology development anyway in the Adriatic. I, in fact, hope most that the IGP declaration will, in cooperation with the neighbours, in particular Italy, contribute to the most implementation of Article. 61, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68. The UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. These are articles that speak of the protection and preservation of various species of living organisms in the sea and at its bottom. This is the part where we can decide for ourselves what future awaits us and whether we will allow the destruction of what is most valuable to us, not just at our disposal, and we must never forget it, not just at our disposal but even more at our disposal. At the Club of the Centre and GLAS, we also believe that the IGP declaration in the Adriatic will not make a major change compared to the ZERP regime and the epicontinental belt, since we supported the protected ecological fishing belt there is no single reason, even if we are to deny this support, so we will be of those who will support it. What remains unknown is that and why is it that the Government that refused to declare the IGP has now suddenly turned its own opinions to this level that this topic calls for an extraordinary session of the Parliament? The issue remains for HDZ fighters here in the Parliament, as well as for the proposing representatives to make it clear to us. So, to conclude, we're going to declare the IGP equally well that all these things are constantly being discussed with our neighbours. The Adriatic Sea, as I often say, is the coldest of all seas, or of all seas of the Mediterranean, the Adriatic Sea, compared to the world sea, is one bay, it is extremely important to us, we read it as an economic resource. But what we need to take care of always, we need to take care of the protection of the Adriatic Sea, we need to take care of climate change, we need to take care of all those changes that are taking place in the Adriatic Sea, we need to take care of when we use it, whether it's fish fishing, whether it's arranged or not, whether it's about marinas, whether it's about watering the sea, because once you make a mistake when it comes to protecting the environment, you've made a mistake forever, and we don't have the right to mistakes in the Adriatic Sea, so we need to keep an eye on it continuously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26662	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26663	Since I don't see anything on the screen, I see now, Mr. Branko Bacic will begin with individual discussions. What? Where does it say? It doesn't say. Here you go, Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26664	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the club, I was talking about the importance of declaring IGP and the difference between ZERP and IGP. What he would add in an individual debate is that both the ZERP and the IGP need to be monitored, that it is necessary to establish mechanisms to control whether both the ZERP and the IGP are indeed all those provisions defining the conduct of the ZERP and the IGP. Well, in that sense, I'd say, and specifically, I'd say it's another 2005. It started in the establishment of the Coast Guard and that the Coast Guard was part of, until then part of the Croatian Navy began and supervised the ZERP because ZERP, although at that time it did not apply to EU Member States concerned third countries. Today, there is a riot if I can say so and rebuild the Fleet of the Coast Guard of the Republic of Croatia in a way that in Split, a ship that can respond to the challenge of the ZERP control is called “Omis”, and at this point, worth 380 million kunas are being built in Brodosplit, four more such ship Sister ship. So, besides the coast guard, besides the equipment of the port captains' vessels, there are eight of them, besides the points of the police, Croatia can today, clearly with a system of work and monitoring of all ships of more than 500 tonnes of loadability, monitor them and effectively exercise control over the respect of decisions relating to both the ecological aspect and the parts relating to the fishing aspect. As far as the fishing aspect is concerned, I must say that Croatia is already monitoring the catch of fish in ZERP today, and tomorrow in the IGP, in a way that the fisheries inspectors at the Ministry of Agriculture are also EU inspectors and that in the last year there are a very large number of crimes and violations in ZERP already established and processed in the case of fishermen coming from Croatia, then the Croatian judiciary is responsible, and when fishermen from Italy are Italian judiciary. Therefore, Croatia is ready to respond to this challenge of declaring the IGP. The good side, and I said so, is that it is declared together with the Republic of Italy because the Italian sea that was open by yesterday was the sea in which everyone could fish, regardless of where it comes from EU Member States or from third countries, could freely fish with whatever boat they wanted, with which there was no limit. And that's why when I hear here in HS that we're practically running after Italy, I believe that and that's what I said and my colleague Stier said earlier, in the Italian Parliament, their representatives resent and honor their government for not reacting when she reacted and the Republic of Croatia since 2013. There is a ZERP that also applies to all EU Member States, particularly Italy. A number of other measures have been taken by the Croatian maritime administration when it comes to ZERP. I just heard what we did when it came to protecting the ecological protection of the Adriatic. I was Secretary of State for the Sea, respected gentlemen for seven years, and we signed the International Convention on Ballast Waters, and we clearly prescribed the inability to change the ballast waters in the Adriatic. We carried an initiative that the International Maritime Organisation declared the Adriatic... an area of special maritime sensitivity and prescribed conditions that must meet the post-standard numbers to sail to the Adriatic. Therefore, we were responsible for the ZERP, or ZERP, and we were treating the IGP tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26665	It's a sad time. You have a replica, Mr. Begonja's first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26666	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, I do not think the government of Ivica Racan was by accident in 2003. declared by ZERP, not the IGP, because in that ZER, which was then adopted, the most important elements of the IGP were contained, and according to the weather context and Croatia at the time, it was acceptable not only for us as a state but also for the international community. It is mentioned here that by declaring the IGP we will achieve some new income, significant revenues in our budget, but I think we are using it more or less already through the ZERP system, over 85% of our catch of fishing catches, so within territorial waters. I ask you to state in your opinion whether, in the context of time, the priority for the Republic of Croatia has been to declare the IGP more significant than any other priorities and strategic goals that Dr. Franjo Tudjman put in charge of our country as a task to the Croatian state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26667	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26668	Thank you. My colleague Begonj, yes, on October 3, 2003, was named ZERP in HS at the time, had one good and one bad side for me. The good side was that we decided to protect the Adriatic in this almost complete content of the IGP, but when the government of Ivica Racan decided to stick to the Croatian Parliament, it seemed to me, to declare the IGP or ZERP. They decided on ZERP. The bad news is that there was little pragmatism, pragmaticity since the elections were at the door, the parliament brought October 3rd, and the elections were November 23rd. And what HS immediately said in that decision was that it would not apply until a year later, which means that it was calculated as well as in what way. That was a bad side to me, but I gotta say, it was good that we were. declared this part, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The Adriatic is protected. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26669	Mr. Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26670	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. Today, in the debate, we had the opportunity to hear from some opposition MPs when they mentioned ZERP, how the same is, in fact, only the sea space in the Adriatic Sea, so from the border of the territorial sea to the high seas, however, it was mentioned, that it refers only to the sea pole. In other words, it doesn't cover the submarine and the underworld. However, it seems to me that colleagues forget about another legal institute, so the epicontinent belt that includes both the underground and the submarine and enables, therefore also exploitation, so these two institutes, one with the other, actually give equal protection, so here, if you can just comment on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26671	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26672	I'd like to thank my colleague, Habian. I didn't answer Mr. Begonji to the end. Yes, Croatia has done the right thing by estimating its strategic interests, we have established and achieved all national objectives, and by entering the EU we have had the protection of ZERP, future IGP and our fishermen, and tomorrow we will declare it, so there has been no error in the steps, colleague Begonja. Comrade Habian, yes, there's been a missing thesis that we've forgotten that we have both the underworld and the seabed. This can be said by someone who does not know, understands neither the Maritime Code nor the International Convention on the Law of the Sea. Croatia as a coastal state, which has and consumes its territorial sea and still has an open sea, has an "Ipsos" factor, just by being a coastal state, it has an epicontinental belt. And if that weren't the case, we wouldn't even be able to at a time when we didn't have a ZERP or tomorrow's IGP. Hydrocarbons, primarily gas, from the present ZERP, or [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The future IGP. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26673	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26674	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, already speaking of the importance of the exclusive economic sea, it would be polite of the proposings at least if one of them were here, there should be a prime minister, but there is no minister or secretary of state who are... I am pleased, and both you and the prime minister have changed their minds about the IGP announcement and we must say it publicly. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Just realize this story, that it's just some islands artificial, energy is an absolute lie. This is about the sovereign right for hundreds of years, the sovereign right of the Croatian people that has gained its freedom, and I am glad that you are finally changing your mind and the quotas will determine, has the right to determine the Croatian state, has the right to the IGP. And once again, I'd like to thank all my predecessors, your MPs, Mr... And all the others, the ones who were with me in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The sea and land, all who fought, today is an important day. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26675	Thank you, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26676	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Bull. Yes, the Croatian people gained freedom, sovereignty and independence because they acted wisely, thanks to both the first Croatian president and Croatian defenders. But thanks to the fact that we knew each other in these difficult times, complicated interstate and relationships to set up our priorities, to determine, when you're telling me that from this pay phone, you're constantly saying that we, how we lose 160-260m euros, watch this data, I have to say that it's not between 160 kuna and 170 kuna, but between 160m euros and 260m euros, so I'm asking you, my colleague Bulj, when you know it so well, now that we declare the IGP, where the items of the state budget are going to be that 260m euros. Who's gonna get in your pocket? Yeah, who's gonna get the money we've been losing this year? Where are we going to find that next year in the budget, let's ask that Well, explain it to me so we can move on. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The two of us in a debate. [[Thank you. Thank you, sir.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26677	...this Bait. Mr. Bully asked for a proverbial injury, and I can't say he wasn't challenged, if you're asking him. Let's see if there's been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. [[So he asks me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26678	Thank you very much. A colleague was injured by an officer. 238, where he puts some facts in my mouth. I call on the EU, the EU Commission that sent it means report, i.e. She made an analysis and called on Croatia to declare IGP 2013 where the damage to Croatia is 160 million to 260 million euros. According to an analysis made by an independent house Not you, and she invited you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to support it, you're not. [[Thank you very much.]] That's why you have to explain. [[Intruder: Mr. Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26679	Thank you very much. It was a replica, wasn't it? ... It was a replica, wasn't it? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You've been very, I must tell you, this questionable one, which is not the custom, to wonder if it isn't. I have to give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm very sorry. I'm so sorry. Mr. Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26680	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Bacic, Mr. Bull may not be able to read those reports. It says very clearly there that it would be a shame if we were the 3rd country, but we're 2013. The EU is implementing a common fisheries policy. I ask Mr. Bull once again, let him show us in the budget where he'll sit that money next year. The same thesis that was being held today that because we didn't have IGP, now we're going to, I don't know, develop islands because we didn't develop them, we also used platforms, here, this morning we had on the Committee on Regional Development of the Islands Act, more than 5.5 billion kuna invested in islands. Renaissance onion construction, including your Korčula. So we see that this government is acting responsibly from President Tudjman we knew what our strategic goals were, to defend the state, to create the state, to create the UN, NATO, the EU, and now we come and we realize and IGP. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26681	Mr. Pavic, I'm sure Mr. Bulj will find a way to answer you later, but it's not customary for a speaker to replicate himself to someone who's not a speaker at that time. Here's your answer, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26682	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Pavić, when someone claims that by not declaring the IGP you lose EUR 260 million, then the argument "acontraio" and common sense is that when you declare that money will come to you. Well, I asked them to tell us where they're going to sit that 260 million Euros. It's unnecessary, it's wrong, it's harmful to promise someone, or it's for fishermen, or someone who's going to get something now when they don't get it, not because they wouldn't want it, but because it's a common sea. And as our fishermen will hunt in any IGP any EU Member State according to the same criteria as the fishermen there will hunt for our ZERP against our fishermen as our fishermen do, and this is the basic and basic setting of each EU Member State's ZERP. And that's important, and it should be pointed out, and it should not give anyone false hopes of some released billions of kunas or EUR.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26683	Thank you very much. Mr. Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26684	Thank you, Vice President HS. We know and know at what point we were from the creation of the state to today and only thanks to the wise policy of the president, Francis Tudjman to this day we are who we are. And it's not true that our fishermen hunt all the fish in IGP, in fact 80% are fished in territorial waters. What I wanted to ask you here if we can now meet the challenge of environmental protection must, given that we had an incident with, I remember with the Turkish ship where we responded well, now we have also had a problem with the platform Ivana D, will Croatia do everything to really in the ecological sense of protecting the sea and to restore the fish fund in it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26685	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26686	I thank my colleague Simičević. The value of the catches of Croatian fishermen is 380 million kuna in 2019, out of 380 million kuna 315 million kuna was caught in the territorial sea, 65 million kuna was caught in ZERP, the future IGP. Your ratio is 83:17. And this does not mean that Croatians did not have, Croatian fishermen did not have better vessels and better networks, stronger, stronger engines, etc. So we don't hunt anymore. And in 2006, at that time I was secretary of state for the sea, 20% of every Croatian fisherman we gave subsidies to build new ships and citizens in Postira na Brač, a number of new fishing vessels were built so that they could prepare themselves when they enter the EU to be equal. As these subsidies were, they were not in line with the European Commission's policy, but other ways of subsidising Croatian fishermen came into force today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26687	Thank you. Mr. Bolt's last replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26688	Thank you. I'm embarrassed to hear the arguments of my colleagues, Bačić. So, as if overfishing in the ZERP or IGP does not affect what our fishermen will be caught in our territorial waters, as if the fish were stationed in one place and this one does not come from the IGP into our territorial waters. Mr. Bacic and the others, please include common sense, intelligence and intelligence. If we can, and we can when we declare IGP, determine the maximum catch in our IGP, it will mean less harassing Italian fishermen and in our current ZERP, then the IGP, consequently more catch opportunities for our fishermen, which should of course be better equipped to make this catch bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26689	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26690	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm embarrassed to listen to my colleague Grumo as much as he doesn't understand the problem. That's, uh, here's me, maybe it's a little awkward, and we've been colleagues here for four years. in HS, so he sleeps in some 2006, '04. Or '98. Comrade Grmoi, meanwhile, we have entered the EU and no one in ZERP, nor can our friends on the other side of the coast, Italians, but as prescribed by Croatian fishermen, they can neither be more nor less. And that we are our own, that we are sovereign in this best says the fact that, on our proposal, on the proposal of the Republic of Croatia, the highest part of the Adriatic, the Apple, that it is also prohibited at this point to fish demerzal and natural species and that is the greatest profit of what we have declared as ZERP. And now that it's changed, once it becomes IGP, that ban will still be in effect, and everything we could do in ZERP we can do in IGP. And that's what I keep trying to explain to you that we are [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] at the right time declared, declared IGP because we met all of our strategic goals. [[Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Bačić]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26691	Thank you, thank you. And now I'm declaring something, too, declaring a window within two hours and 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26692	Here we go with the debate, the individual debate, the distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26693	Thank you very much. My people who follow this and interest, mostly fishermen, even called me a fisherman from the Popov family, and he's proud to hear that we're talking about our Adriatic, about protecting the Adriatic, about fishing, because it's forgotten, that part has been forgotten, and I, as a parliamentary representative, am in two, with my colleagues from the bench, on two occasions in the last term proposed that the government support then, the government was against, had an opinion against the declaration of an exclusive economic belt and colleagues from the majority, from the HDZ, I don't know which were still these smaller, the attachments that were and the SDP were mostly not for declaring an exclusive economic belt. Which is why, I don't know, but I'm glad they're changing their minds, especially because my colleague Bacic changed his mind, our secretary of state, and I'm especially glad that we had the county thematic session when Mayor Boban and our colleague Ante Sanader and all of them were against the announcement of an exclusive economic belt, and now suddenly we're bringing in an exclusive economic belt. If ZERP and the exclusive economic belt are the same, then what are we changing? So it's not the same, first of all, it's very important to say to all those who are criticizing, it's not just a question of platforms, islands, artificial, energy, this is a question of sovereign law, sovereign law. Croatia also has the right to determine quotas. Croatia has the right to set quotas and we will fight for it, if you do not want to, and if you are embarrassed to admit that you did not declare it 15, 20 years ago, especially you, ma'am. Zgombic, you have always assured us that we are wrong because of the exclusive economic belt, Prime Minister Plenkovic came here to speak, all kinds of expressions he told us, however, the strongest minister when he talks about my Sinjska alci, the Cetina region and mentions Smail-age Cengic's death and says "delicate". It's good to pick it up, be brave, and it's good to hit the goal, but the Smail Mažuranić described was, bought a hack, it was one lame faceless, he wasn't sick because he didn't collect the hack at the time, but the shame, he was hurt by pride. Minister, if you'd made a difference, you'd have guessed, but you didn't. We are the second part, you have made your own policies of the Croatian people to work in the mud, that we depend on foreigners, Italians who, since the Rapal Agreements 100 years ago, have not had any pretenses, but at that time had pretenses over our sea and have mastered our coast, this is what the Tajani who mentioned, fascist Tajani, assisted by his friend Andrej Plenkovic, did not divide and in Sinj does not say so, in Sinj says the firm right hand and eye of the Falcon in the fight against the Turks, the Ottoman Empire. The hard right eye and the Falcon eye and the Drito shot into the srid, calmed down in the srid and not naked and loaded but three fulls, Minister, maybe in Vienna if you've gone long ago from Duvno, you have no idea about it either. So, Minister, you've made a complete mistake, you haven't split, but the Italians have split, and you're rolling in the mud of your impotence and I support this because I proposed and it's the sovereign right of the Croatian people. This is the sovereign right of the Croatian people. And colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, why didn't you vote in the last term? Which is why you did not vote when Tonci Tadic, HSP,... And everyone who suggested here, you didn't support it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you roll through the mud and quote Mažuranić, the great poet and his work "Death Smail-age Cengić". You're the one who's delicate, Minister? So you're watching yesterday, whenever a servant comes in, you roll in the mud, we have to arrest, locate our heroes, court ourselves, and our fisherman is left alone. We don't have a fish market, do we, for the fish market? We don't. You didn't protect our fleet, you left it alone in the waterless. Left to the Italians. The Italian fleet. The Croatian people couldn't break off from the Rapal Treaty and you can share with someone else and don't do anything with the Croatian people in the mud and quote Mažuranić and his great works.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26694	Time. We have several replicas, the first distinguished representative of Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26695	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Miro Bulj, you are making false statements here in your presentation, so there is no thesis that Mayor Blaženko Boban and Mr Ante Sanader were against, so they are against your unspeakable and incomprehensible proposals as usual. Thus, through the ZERP legal regime and the epicontinental belt, Croatia has already protected its interests in the Adriatic Sea using all the mechanisms that have then been made available to us as a member of the EU and in accordance with the Convention on the Law of the Sea and the acquis of the EU. So the strategic goal could not have been to declare the Split-Dalmatia County an exclusive economic belt, but rather to the state of the Republic of Croatia as it does and to accept the fact that this government is a successful government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26696	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26697	I know fellow Members that you voted against the declaration that I proposed at the meeting of the Split-Dalmatia County Assembly... the mandate of our future Mayor Opara and that you must defend him, but so much is false... and no one has said it. I did not ask for IGP to be declared, but to be a declarative support for us to give the declaration and declare it a county, to support the IGP declaration. Mayor Boban, Ante Sanader you were against, the state secretary who was here you were all against, and then I brought Tony Tadic to represent the interests and declaration of the IGP and the man who started it defended him then and defended him today, and you voted against. You voted against, you're only interested in concessions from Brač, you're interested in the Golden War, Ben, you're interested in other things than the IGP declaration, the concession on the maritime good.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26698	Time. The next replica is Honorable Representative Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26699	Your Honor, Mr. Bulj. It really offends me when you keep saying that HDZ is changing its attitudes and opinions. And as a member of the party and as a defender, I must really tell you that HDZ does not change its views, HDZ is implementing a state-of-the-art policy from the defensive Homeland War, from entering or joining the UN, from NATO, the EU to today. HDZ knows when and what is best for the Croatian state and what is now done is the practical arrangement of the same state. The house cannot be built from the roof, the house is built from the foundation and upwards. This is the arrangement of the same state and I ask you to treat it with a little more respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26700	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26701	You are proud at the time of the management of Ivo Sanader and that you have trampled the fundamental values of the Homeland War, when the four most difficult words ever in history are spoken to locate, arrest, transfer, process Croatian heroes who have conducted the greatest liberation operation of Storm. And that's when you wandered away for Carla del Ponte and the courtship, and you didn't pick up, but you kneeled, kneeled before Carla del Ponte, not protecting our heroes and the foundations of the state, the foundation of the Homeland War, the foundation of the state. It's during Mesic, Sanader and the Shex Giants, and you're proud of that time and that state-of-the-art policy? Thank you very much for changing your mind and for supporting the IGP which has been rejected twice in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26702	Time. Replica, the next respected representative of Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26703	Thank you, Mr. Sanader's chairman. Honorable ministers, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Bulj, everyone has read it a little more seriously, and ZERP and IGP will see that it is not one of those same, and they will also see that, in fact, the important difference that comes out among all others is actually that the IGP issue of sovereignty, so what we have left of it at least since we are inside the EU. For example, for example, the ZERP has no restrictions or control for ships and fishing coming from the EU of course, while the IGP declaration is Croatia which defines the ecological maximum for the fisheries themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26704	Well, only the IGP declaration is delayed, and the very act of declaring IGP of sovereign law is a solemn act, but it's nothing unless we apply the full IGP if we don't keep fighting. It's solemn to declare IGP, it's an international right to our, all states, according to the UN Convention. We have the meaning of the European Commission, i.e. The EU sent its report, made a strategy where it says Croatia loses 160m to 260m euros annually, to lose control of uncontrollable fishing, and it urged us to. During the SDP government and she invites us to declare it and we have to protect our fisherman, we have to keep fighting, but the question is whether those who have now changed their mind, thank God, and they find it hard to admit it,...jilitated.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26705	Next replica, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26706	Dear Mr. Bully, dear Vice President of the Parliament. So I'm fascinated by your newly discovered sovereignty, and the chief sovereign was President Tudjman and he drew the main directions that we've all achieved. First, the fight for independence, the entry into the UN, the EU, NATO, we have achieved all these goals, and now we are achieving the IGP. If you had done your hard-line activities like this, we would be on the hilly Balkans today with Vukić in the minischegen that Vukic is leading. We are who government and who HDZ knew when to show their teeth, knew when to be diplomatic. You're talking about... contracts, and I remember that the first state chief to come to Tudjman was Francesco Cossiga, that we had friends in Lucian de Michelis in our creation of the state, we had to create the state first, we created it. We have achieved all foreign policy objectives, and now the IGP, and since 2013 since EU entry It's our European sea, the Italians can't do anything anymore. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26707	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26708	Dr. Crescent. Franjo Tudjman, the first president of the Republic of Croatia, you mention to the man who founded HDZ in his neighborhood, is not Andrej Plenkovic, nor you. Andrej Plenkovic was thinking in 2011 whether he was going to the SDP or HDZ. Dr. Crescent. Francis Tudjman and Ivo Sanader have no connection at all. And the second was the time of the union, where the brotherly in the trench fought irrelevantly were the sons of Partisans or Ustasha for Croatia. We weren't as boastful as you perfume ministers, or Andrej Plenkovic, who came here in the middle of nowhere. If two like, two more like you, we didn't need the Croatian forces of defense, both Hos and no one, you would have come to Japan, but there was no courage. Dr. Crescent. Francis Tudjman, when he sees everything they've done for him, turns in his grave. Don't mention his name in vain.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26709	Next individual debate, the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26710	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister. At first, he would refer briefly to a colleague of Pavic, who mentioned here, called on Tudjman and Tudjman's sovereignty, the same Tudjman, whom Croatian Parliament Speaker Gordan Jandrokovic did not remember here at the beginning of the session a few days ago to keep him quiet, is not, is no longer important. Neither did the editor-in-chief of HRT remember him, so on the day of his death he tried to put on TV a film that mocked Tudjman on the day of his death, "Who is this state?" So much for the relationship between today's HDZ, dear colleague Pavic towards the greatest sovereign you call him, the first Croatian president, Dr. Francis Tudjman. There are two ways that Italian carriages no longer fish with Croatian territorial waters or in our IGP work. There are two ways. One way to get out of the EU, get out of the EU, we have a designated IGP, and we automatically ban everyone but Croatian carriages, and they hunt fish there. That's one way. Another way, but really possible, for you to adopt my amendment and to follow that amendment, we have a proposal for conclusions and amendments, you actually have two variations on the subject that you can accept and it says, the Croatian Parliament obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to, for example, make a commitment within the deadline. 90 days, it may also be 120 days, it does not matter, from the entry into force of this Decision, to the European Commission for the full protection of IGP from any kind of fishing and fishing for other marine organisms. Here I have to refer a little bit to colleagues who have talked about quotas and fishing quotas in the Adriatic are almost not available except for tuna, there are no regrets, and if they were introduced, then it is introduced proportionally, and then Croats who have a little money would catch even less and the Italians would hunt from... much less, but no problem was solved because the Italian koke quotas would be fishing again in our part of the IGP. And there's no problem solved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The problem is solved by accepting the amendments of the Croatian Sovereigns, but you don't even have to write my amendment, so that it doesn't turn out that Zekanovic's amendment has been accepted or in a few days you make that decision, here I will let you go for a few days, if not, I will bother you all the time. Do it because you can do it. I'm just saying that I didn't make this up for you, so I've talked to a lot of experts, and I'm going to single out a man, Professor. Allen Soldo, so Dr. Sc. Fishing. And he graduated and mastered and doctored fishing and he told me to tell you this, and he told me. And I heard back, a lot of people came to me today, and I would single out another man, named Tomislav Mravičić of Makarska, the owner of the largest, was the largest carriage in Croatia, the Makarska Adriatic, the largest carriage, he sold. And he was the only coach of Croatia that caught in the IGP, or ZERP, the only carriage. And she had Youtube, find him a video where he hunts himself surrounded by 15 Italian carriages. And it will continue. So, there's no reason to be happy, there's some who are looking forward to the opposition, I'm not wrong to be happy, but unfortunately there's no reason to be happy because the situation is extremely bad and what you know, you would never go to the IGP announcement that the Italians, this is what Ruža Tomasic told you to tell you, they have no problem with Albanian carriages and Tunisians and Libyans. If the Italians didn't have that problem, unfortunately, it's very wrong for me that it didn't happen autonomously, I'm really sorry, but it's also a fact. If the Italian parliaments, two days ago, had not made that decision, we would have never made this decision and perhaps not then. No matter what I'm angry and maybe in that speech in front of the club, I used a word that might have been eliminated as well, take this as a well-intentioned criticism and really look the President of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic in the eye and tell him, listen, Plenkovic, let's do this the way the guy does, let's try to protect this IGP in the right way. that Italian carriages never destroy again, not the bottom of the Croatian sea. Here's so much from me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26711	Here's the first replica, the esteemed representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26712	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Zekanovic, I have the impression that you're just reading the messages you've received but here's something to tell you someone who has mastered oceanography or physics of the sea. Since the entry, once again, Croatia is worth a common fisheries policy in the EU in 2013. So since then, the Italians have not benefited at all. Croatian inspectors then became EU inspectors, already the richest part of the fish fund, and it is a standstill in the Apple Hall, already protected, should be by 9 months. Protected, oceanography and fishing institute scientists went, checked, not renewed, will continue to be protected according to standard and whole fishing policy, so don't say that the Italians do something when they don't work. Since 2013 There is no advantage, we protect, and the Croatian Coast Guard will soon receive 5 patrol ships with which we will also patrol together both sides. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26713	Dear colleague Pavic, I know, that fact you said, I told her many times from this pay phone that the Croatian open sea is part of the European sea and I know that and that we have a common European policy and I know that. But as an expert, you yourself declared yourself an expert you said one wrong fact. I don't know if you've made a mistake as an expert. Here I don't think you'd go into your integrity professionally, but I think you've told one lie then, because you know very well that with a few bright examples like the protection of apple cauldrons, Italians and today and this day, right now, here's the check to show you the app, you have on the app exactly where the Italian carriages are, if you want to come, I'll show you how many dozens of wagons are located along the line of our now territorial waters, hundreds and you know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26714	The next replica is the distinguished representative Nikola Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26715	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear counterpart Zekanovic, President of HS Mr Jandrokovic has remembered Croatia's first president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman and his anniversary of death because that morning before the beginning of the session he went to lay a crown on his grave in Mirogoje along with some of our other fellow MPs. So I ask you not to take President Tudjman as someone only you have the right to. He is the founder and first president of our party, HDZ, who still today, which today is the heritage of his character and work.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26716	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26717	Yeah, he went into protocol, he really left, that's right. And just like he forgot to give a minute of silence later, which is common here, and that's an unacceptable mistake. It's an inadmissible mistake and warn him and warn him next time he doesn't. And as far as HDZ is concerned, I often pointed out here, I was born, my father was a HDZ founder, I don't know if your father was the founder of HDZ, and in my house it was celebrated when HDZ won April 22nd, '90. The house of Andrej Plenkovic was not celebrated, it was not celebrated, nor was it at Arsen Bauk's house. ... It was not celebrated, no, no, it was not celebrated in the house of Andrej Plenkovic, the house of Hrvoj Zekanovic was celebrated. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Comrade Boric, your argument has become ridiculous to you because I have proven that without HDZ I exist, and without HDZ you are zero, nothing, politically you have no power, no vote and you can go to political retirement without HDZ, and I can and will do as I wish. And you've seen it before. [[Intruder: Time, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26718	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a distinguished representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26719	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll risk my notice per article. 238, so as far as the '90 elections are concerned, my home was celebrated because I won Brač.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26720	Good eye. Here, even apologize to my colleague, Bauku, here he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26721	So this was a replica, you get a warning. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Rada Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26722	Thank you, Vice President HS. Your Honor, you are four and eight years ago, respectively. come to this assembly on the HDZ list...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26723	Five, four, four.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26724	...so, well, we've been hanging out together and we've been campaigning, so you can't say that HDZ wasn't anything to you or that HDZ was nothing to you. What I wanted to tell you here also for the first Croatian President Dr. Francis Tudjman, why do you think he didn't declare ZERP or this IGP? So, in the creation of the Croatian state, we had to find a friend, then we didn't have one, and you think that your thesis to get out of the EU so that we could live as "I fell in the world"? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26725	Dear colleague, you can see you're new to the assembly, those stories are a little messed up with HDZ, I've already answered my colleague. I was even hoping for some catharsis from that HDZ that I had to say at some point had some emotion, and now I'm a little bit, I'm so cold. I had an emotion since I grew up, I say, and raised by the father of the HDZ deceased, but I don't have that illusion anymore. But there's HDZ now has one new face, one person who collects SDP's votes, and that's why we Croatian sovereigns and other parties are in... The spectrum that will take what is healthy from you, and that is what people have already rewarded in these elections, will continue to reward. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you really opened up a fantastic big space in SDP's part of the political spectrum, which felt like their bad result, but who knows, here's maybe a colleague of Bauk and his associates turn things around a little bit, so you're getting hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26726	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miroslav Škoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26727	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Zekanovic, in order to comfort you, I did something similar in my replicator-respected minister today, so he answered me, so here I am going to do it again: there are no problems. Croatian fishermen can hunt in Italian IGP, if I understand correctly Mr. Minister and in Spanish And in French, etc., probably Danish, so don't get nervous, relax, it'll be all right. [[Intruder: Danish]] And if we were to declare those quotas and disable people or condition them, according to your knowledge, do we even have the ability to control such a long line and so long, so long, so long IGP, say, this one?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26728	Dear Mr. Skoro, I noticed that you were the only one, yet it would be immodest to tell me with me, pointed out this key problem in a simple and easily explained way, and your question was whether these Italian chariots were going to fish? And later on, to me, the Honorable Minister answered the same question as you. He told me that he would not even say that he would, but he said that it had something to do with it, it's the European sea, so we can, too, this Tomislav Mravincic, as his last name is, so that not me, he can get on his boat and hunt around the coast of Denmark. You got it. Spanish. Here's a pity that the UK could've come out half of the Atlantic was declared the economic belt of Great Britain. So we're really open to fantastic possibilities, but we can already go to the middle of the Pacific Ocean where IGP can only be declared 200 miles. And Croats have millions of miles of squares where they can hunt. Go ahead, Croatian fishermen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26729	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26730	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and deputies. The IGP declaration is the right of a Member State that has access to the sea in accordance with the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, so it is both Croatia and Italy. In the desire to better lords living in the wealth of the Adriatic and protect the marine environment, Croatia is on 3 October 2003. declared its ZERP containing all the essential elements of the IGP. So far, the Italians have not had such a level of protection in their part of the sea, which has had a negative impact on both their part and our part of the sea, because because of the lack of protection in their part of the sea, fishermen from third countries were free to enter the sea, and they were able to catch fish uninterruptedly, resulting in an ever worse state of the fish fund, and it was a danger to the marine environment, but it also affected the safety in our part of the sea. Our waters have become European fishing waters since we joined the EU, Italian waters that have not been protected in the same way have been international waters, and by making a decision from the Italian side on the IGP declaration they will also become European fishing waters. Therefore, third fleets that do not have an agreement with the EU will fully restrict fishing in the Adriatic, which will have a positive impact on fish stocks. So I would say that for me, the fact that we will declare IGP and Italy at the same time is an opportunity to further protect the resources that are in the Adriatic, but to manage them in one rational and sustainable way. The reason is that we give full support to the decision to declare the IGP and continue to work on improving and strengthening the capacity to monitor the safety and sustainability of the Adriatic Sea. We may take a step further into assessing the additional needs of both human and technical, research and financial which would further contribute to the totality of the rights that we will have in place by making this decision, especially in relation to the article. In the 73rd century, 1st century, 1st century, 1st century B.C.E., 1st century B.C.E., 1st century B.C.E., 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, The UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. I'll remind you of the content of that article because it's mentioned here many times today. "The coastal state can take such measures in order to stop ships, their inspection, enforcement and judicial proceedings necessary to ensure compliance with the laws and regulations adopted by it in accordance with the Convention." As a member of the IGP says, it allows us to achieve our sovereign rights as an opportunity to improve the protection of our fisheries resources because all fish species in the Adriatic are in a state of overfishing. That is why I am convinced that by declaring the IGP we can improve the protection of fisheries resources and the protection of the seabed and the marine environment. This is necessary because cattle are red and incubated and although we note progress in donkey cattle, trile, Adriatic shrimp, this is not the case with shrimp. It is clear from this data that the option mentioned in the debate, and it has been said that we can give the surplus fish on the basis of a contract with the EU to a third country is not realistic because measures are in force to reduce catches, to restore livestock. Our multi-year management plans based on spatial time limits, and not on quotas, allow us to take care of the ecological component of sustainability through them, but we also need to take care of the social and economic components that the new multi-annual plan for the Adriatic that is being prepared needs to be accepted. We should also continue to worry about the protection of the natural resources of the Adriatic Sea and co-operation related to sustainable fisheries, which is in the focus of Croatia, and a good example that together with Italy, with the support of the European Commission, we have declared no fishing zones in the area of the Apple and we should continue to work on such initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26731	We have several replicas, first of all the distinguished representative Josip Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26732	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Petir, today we have had the opportunity to hear different figures on different incomes on several occasions, the call for a study and let me read that "Croatian as an EU member should monitor changes in EU fisheries policy, and in view of the proposed study, the European Commission's political position on the study has not yet been expressed, except that the Commission has answered the written question by the European Parliament's representatives. "Tomasic." Without quoting him as a whole, my question is, can tomorrow Croatia after the IGP declares itself to be its own fishing policy that will be contrary to EU policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26733	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26734	Your Honor, Representative Begonja. It is certainly important here to underline and understand how fisheries in the EU are managed under the rules of the common fisheries policy, so the word itself speaks if something is common then it is decided at European level and it is not a policy within the competence of the Member State. So we cannot change the rules that exist on our own, of course we can agree at European level on this. It is also very important to mention because it seems to me that today was misinformation related to the assessment of the state of the livestock, even it was said that we do not have that assessment which is completely incorrect, it is assessed by the scientific and advisory committee of the General Fisheries Commission of the Mediterranean but there is also a scientific, technical and economic committee as the advisory body of the European Commission, where our scientists are, they have an impact on everything that is happening and they are evaluating and then we, through our ministry, are further communicating. petir
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26735	Your Honor, Representative Begonja. It is certainly important here to underline and understand how fisheries in the EU are managed under the rules of the common fisheries policy, so the word itself speaks if something is common then it is decided at European level and it is not a policy within the competence of the Member State. So we cannot change the rules that exist on our own, of course we can agree at European level on this. It is also very important to mention because it seems to me that today was misinformation related to the assessment of the state of the livestock, even it was said that we do not have that assessment which is completely incorrect, it is assessed by the scientific and advisory committee of the General Fisheries Commission of the Mediterranean but there is also a scientific, technical and economic committee as the advisory body of the European Commission, where our scientists are, they have an impact on everything that is happening and they are evaluating and then we, through our ministry, are further communicating.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26736	Time. Next replica, distinguished representative Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26737	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, the Republic of Croatia protects its national interests in continuity and achieves its rights and legitimate interests in the Adriatic Sea as well. Do you think the IGP will provide us with greater control over the area outside territorial waters, especially when it comes to third country fishing vessels? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26738	Thank you very much, dear colleague Baricevic. We have already had this control with the declaration of ZERP, so our fishing inspectors were able to carry out adequate controls and therefore, when Croatia became an EU Member State, our inspectors became European inspectors. So there will certainly be no significant change in that segment when it comes to control. What we will be able to control more strongly is the issue of environmental protection by vessels entering our seas, where strict standards will have to be respected, I think there have already been mentions here of certain hand-to-hands that occurred when Croatia reacted because this was applied to third countries and now power will react in that sense and if it happens by a Member State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26739	Next replica, the distinguished representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26740	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, Petir, so in discussions when we discuss IGP, we are then discussing the Adriatic as a resource of use in terms of the economy. But if we don't stand as a resource that needs to be protected absolutely from the aspect of environmental protection and then see how much real capacity is possible, we ourselves will be guilty of the fact that in the Adriatic Sea there will be less and less fish. In your debate, you have touched these issues among other things, and I think that's a problem that needs to be highlighted in particular. The problem where we have to protect, where we have to protect the fish fund and we have to take care of it because if we don't take care of it, then things will just go wrong and that's one of the reasons why it's good to talk to Italy and make some kind of step in terms of protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26741	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26742	Thank you, dear colleague of the Dark-Taritash. So you're right when you draw attention to this important segment that actually refers to the protection of the Adriatic that should actually be seen regionally and thus be approached because if we protect our part and do not protect it from neighbouring countries, we have a problem and we have already felt it and these problems are quite measurable. Also, there have been a lot of dilemmas here when it comes to fishing itself and the proposals to introduce quotas, I would just like to warn those who advocate quotas that Croatia has fought against quotas at European level because it is deeply harmful for Croatia and Croatia and that is why we have several years of management plans through which we are actually protecting our interests, which allow the limit of fishing for fishermen, means for swimmers at 180 days per month and 20 days per vessel, and there is a whole regulation that regulates this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26743	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26744	Good afternoon, everyone. How was that campaign going once? "The smart ones know what the belt is for." Now, if we were to do a survey here as many colleagues as know what the belt or IGP is for compared to ZERP, that would be very different from what we heard in the debates, but good. So this is the fourth season of the IGP series that happens in the Croatian Parliament, with this fourth one being recorded a little later. The first was in 2003 when, with the pawning of the representative, Tonci Tadic, with a slightly greater push by the then coalition partner of the HSS, in which Mrs was also in. However, with the support of the then parliamentary majority led by the SDP, the elected ZERP, or a protected eco-fish, can also be confirmed. And what the Sovereigns, the Bridges and colleagues of the Homeland Movement were telling the government today, that's what HDZ said to that government when we were about. So there's some historical justice that you have to listen to. There's no historical justice when we're mentioned here, we've heard it before. Then the government changed, and HDZ came to power, and the first thing he did, delayed the application of ZERP because what was little then suddenly became too much. Of course, because of the Western neighbors. This is the kind of debate where, unlike usual, our eastern neighbours are not the main bad guys but the West. Afterwards we got another delay, in 2008, and then again the HSS came into the story, which entered the ruling coalition, provided that the IGP was declared, and then they gave up, I don't know what HDZ had to pay for, how much more public companies had to give as a dowry, but it was the third season of the IGP and here's the fourth and hopefully the last, final that we would declare IGP, will be now. Why is that happening? Legend has it that Albanians overfished in Adriatic waters that should be IGP Italian, and then the Italians decided to say a lot of that, so Albanians can't fish in those waters anymore, so they'll have to go somewhere south into other waters. So here is the announcement of the Italian IGP and Croatia as part of the sovereignty over that part of the Adriatic because the EU will participate in the production of quotas and for that part of the Adriatic as of course and now all other EU countries participating in the creation of a common European fisheries policy and in what is already ZERP. What's interesting is we're going to get the right of the artificial islands, but it doesn't call the natural ones, so we don't have to worry about how much we should, but we don't have to worry about that, so here we are, the islanders here in the Parliament, we support that idea. I just hope the artificial islands don't end up like this platform that's also artificial so it ends up at the bottom. And finally, when we sublime all of this together, this is the end of a process that really Croatia deserves to round it up, it's tossing stones from the shoes on the left or right which we had a team that we didn't even have the right to do, we didn't declare the IGP, it didn't even do the former Yugoslavia while its international position was such that the Italians couldn't exactly complain. But now that that's over, I must say, with the undiscovered pleasure of listening to the objections of the right-wing opposition to HDZ, a little clean because of historical justice, too, because of historical justice, I will vote for the IGP. And given all the circumstances that have led Croatia to declare IGP rights, IGP actually means Italy's grace and Plenkovic's signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26745	We've got three replicas, the first law-abiding representative, Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26746	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bauk, I find it very pleasant how you ironize, although unlike some of the others we've listened to in an intelligent way, you're ironing this important topic. Since there's no one here from the HSS, which is nothing new because since Cresso Beljak took over the HSS question of whether the HSS even exists anymore. I feel a duty to say something because I remember that time. The HSS was in 2003. have applied for the IGP to declare the initiative, so you are celebrating all of the assembly of some MPs, forgetting that this initiative really came from the HSS at the time that this law was in the process and that just then your SDP prime minister and your foreign minister explained that this is not possible because we will be closed the door of the EU, and so between our proposal of the IGP and your proposal, which was the ultimate liberal, the ZERP, which was then called a strange beak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26747	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26748	Thank you. I certainly did not forget the historical merits of HSS at the time because I mentioned that it was the HSS initiative, and that the first one was tonči Tadic, that's what I said. And so everything that happened after that confirmed what then Prime Minister Ivica Racan and Foreign Minister Tonino Picula said because we really had a door for a while, let's not close, but someone put their foot down so that they couldn't get out and it lasted, it lasted until we first postponed in 2005, and then delayed again in 2008. Therefore, the reason for the IGP's declaration was to protect the Adriatic from those who fish the most, which were Italian fishermen, but at no time because it had not applied to the EU countries since 2004 until today it has not applied as Croatia wanted. Therefore, I thank you for this in an intelligent way of ironically ironically, but I am not ironizing the IGP but rather some of the discussions I heard from 2004 to today.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26749	Next replica representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26750	Thank you very much. My colleague Bauk you said nicely that this is a game in several acts, or in several episodes and several series. But what we have to say, although it's good that we finally declare IGP, it doesn't mean that it's actually ironic that we'll benefit more from Italy's declaration of its IGP, so it won't change much for us because, as you said, I don't believe we're going to work on either the islands or we're going to use this part of the sea to produce electricity, but we're going to benefit especially from Italian declaration or because of the absence of some other fleets from the Adriatic. It just shows how independent our foreign policy really is and how much we've actually waited for the Italians to start this process so that we can finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26751	Thank you. This was one topic that served to raise national or international tensions in order to make someone appear to be a larger Croat, and someone else shows up as a smaller Croat, so that the content of what is declared is completely omitted in this ranking. So here's how today we had the opportunity to testify that colleagues on the right and HDZ were arguing about who has more heritage than President Tudjman's tradition, even though he didn't declare IGP, so I don't know why he was mentioned in this context, that he could certainly have declared it. He did some things that were much harder, so he would do that. He couldn't, if he couldn't, then certainly neither his colleague Bulj, nor his colleague Zekanovic would have done it if they were in the same situation as Ivica Racan who also did much more serious and better things for Croatia than IGP because he could. This obviously isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26752	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26753	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. You said somewhere at the end of your debate that you would be very pleased to have the entire history of voting for the IGP or exclusive economic belt. I must admit that I will vote with great pleasure because I am reading it really in terms of environmental protection and not using it but in terms of taking real care of this Adriatic. But, of course, it's not the merit of our foreign policy either, it's not because the conditions are now being met, but as you said at one point it's a legend that the Italians have understood what the Albanians are doing. About the Albanians did what the Italians have been doing for years, but okay, that irony aside. I think it's good, and I'm sure the artificial islands will be nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26754	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26755	There's some historical justice. So, Albanians do what the Italians did, as those from the right opposition do to HDZ what the HDZ did to us. It's, it's just that belt one circled, circled story. Let, therefore, what is good for Croatia do not need now too much, too much partying, there and there should be a little reminder of historical events, but ultimately here from, from that neither purka nor kanac, what Ivo Sanader said about ZERP, so he later defended it, Croatia will when we declare it having an IGP and it is another important page rounding sovereignty, whether it is full subjectivity etc. The Republic of Croatia wants to meet us where we want to meet. Schengen remains something that is important on the agenda, and then we can be one boring normal country like most other Europeans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26756	Thank you. Next individual debate, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26757	Thank you very much. A lot has been said so far, I will try not to repeat myself. But what I have to point out at the beginning is that we can't take the impression that in fact there is a lack of leadership rather than more follow-up, I don't know how to say it in Croatian, so the foreign policy of the neighbouring country. It is clear that without Italy, Slovenia, Montenegro and other countries with which we are borderline cannot be declared or such an agreement can not be reached, that is, the declaration of the economic belt. But we could have done it before, we could have done it before. As my colleague Bauk has already given one... One interesting historical review, I will only limit myself to the fact that unfortunately we did not use ZERP to the extent that we could and should have. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, at the moment Croatia declared ZERP we were still on our way to the EU and the team, this declaration would, in fact, make it mandatory for EU members not to hunt in our waters. However, we also declared our decisions that it does not apply to EU member states or in translation Italy could still fish in our waters despite the ZERP. It all happened during the government of Eva Sanader. Later, if I'm not mistaken, one decision was for the Government of Jadranka Kosor. So that's actually the objective advantage of ZERP we didn't take advantage of. Now by declaring IGP, even though it's a good thing, it won't change much. As I said before, we will actually benefit more from the Italian declaration of the IGP because the Adriatic Sea is a closed sea, so their IGP declaration will be completely closed to non-EU countries and their fishing fleets. Therefore, we will be able, we will be able to protect the fish fund in a better and more efficient way between our two countries and prevent the capture and devastation of our sea, which has been the case so far, sometimes too many fish. But at the end of the day, our fishermen will be almost at the same place as they were, so Italy, the Italian fishing fleet will continue to hunt in those waters, and our fishing fleet is unfortunately decimated, practically on its knees, so the pale shadow is what it was, which it used to be. On the other hand, the question is interesting, and would you ever approach it if Italy hadn't decided on that step, so it's always a question that will remain hanging over this decision. But also from the communications we had and from what we had the opportunity to hear from the ministry and the prime minister, we didn't even hear the final position of the country with which we had the border dispute, and right at sea, which is the Republic of Slovenia. Although I believe that for Slovenia, too, there is not much change since the EU member, from Ljubljana, at least I have not seen until now, unless, of course, the silent diplomacy has done its part, no reaction to this, no positive, no negative, therefore, it is interesting that the silence of the official Ljubljana on this, since neither Prime Minister Janša has given us a clear attitude, nor has he declared himself to this, a act that we are now discussing. I'm saying, I'm not removing the possibility that diplomacy, first of all, quiet diplomacy, has done its job. It is something we cannot know, but it is still a sign of Slovenia's opposition to this act. In short, could we declare the IGP earlier? We probably did, we did. Was that so important for Croatia? Well, maybe not since we already had a ZEPR and we were protecting our part of the sea, Italian was not protected. But since fish do not know the borders and swim beyond the borders of the Croatian or Italian parts of the Adriatic Sea, it is important that Italy declares its IGP to protect the entire Adriatic Sea for the benefit of our fishermen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26758	We have one replica, distinguished representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26759	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hajdukovic, I don't think we should expect this moment, and it would be a good thing if we were now looking for some kind of indication from the Slovenian government. We are aware that they also have an internal situation, even because, of course, after the judgment of the arbitration court which Croatia does not accept, but Slovenia did, the arbitration court found, among other things, that Slovenia has no right to an economic belt or an ecological zone, so that Slovenia had to change its legislation. There are polemics between one side of the political scene in Slovenia, which was for it or what were the positions then. I don't think it's our part to get into it, it's our role to look and include and have good neighbourly relations and that Slovenia is also a partner in protecting the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26760	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26761	Thank you very much. Comrade Stier, I have just removed this from my debate and I have said that Slovenia currently has some of its internal political turmoils and should not force this story, I agree with you and I have said that the silence of the official Ljubljana is signifying here. But what needs to be done, and what the ministry assures us is that it was made to have certain contacts both towards the Slovenian side and communication in this case, which, therefore, gave us the conviction that it was done precisely because of these good neighbourly relationships you were talking about. And in the future, we definitely need to think more efficiently about protecting the Adriatic Sea and perhaps we should think about some multilateral forms of cooperation between the countries in the Adriatic Sea because we are all ultimately in the interest of protecting the same sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26762	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26763	Dear Vice President. Dear Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The IGP consultation report and the intention of declaring the IGP is certainly a good debate, but it would like to begin by removing some of the doubts that are emerging here, first of all about the number of islands, islets and rocks in the Republic of Croatia constantly mixing two numbers 1.185 from the National Development Programme of the Croatian Islands. We settled that question there at the end of 2008, '09. based on scientific work, we have 1,244 and it must always be some number to know that we have so many islands, islands, cliffs and reefs. It is often mixed, and it can even be found in some government documents that there are different figures. What's important is, of course, I'm going to tell my colleague Bauku, even though I don't see him here that he didn't say anything and why ZERP was brought here in 2003 because it was only a month before the parliamentary elections, just so we know. ZERP 3.10, election 23.11. Was there any pressure? It's not. Whether it was a suitable political issue at the time or not, let everyone think for themselves. Now I am glad that we agree on the need to declare this and that is one of the few points on which we have all found agreement regardless of the various criticisms and I am even glad that my colleague Bulj will raise his hand for one decision of this government or of the former governments of ours from HDZ because so far he has not wanted, here and there may be some law, but for decisions he never wanted to budget. But that's enough and that's already progress. Now that we're talking about IGP really everyone from my corner, I'm going to come from that space and from the sea, and I think that by looking at the interests of those who are important fishermen to us, and so on, people who live for the sea and the sea, from that which we've had, especially some of the greater values, we won't be, and we need to make it clear that they're getting out of the hall of this story about billions of kunas that are going to come back to unknown accounts and concepts because we haven't so far, so maybe they will be. We've been listening to this for a few years now, unfortunately everything in the wrong settings, taking it out of some reports, etc., and interpreting normally to whom it fits and, of course, always ahead of some kind of election. Now we are aware that we have several belts of internal water, territorial sea, outer belt, of course IGP and epicontinental belt, all of which we were able to draw in some way cartographically, and that's some value of that whole space to know how to use it and we could control it. Of course, every IGP reduces the open sea belt. What's going to happen, we heard on the boards that it would be our wish to tell that IGP follows and borders of the epicontinental belt, and then if that's the case, we've already solved it in '68. in that former state, and I think there's a more or less consensus between the two states that have created through the history of the dispute over that space. Now, are we going to be very happy if we say now that we didn't have 23,870 kilometers with ZERP, now that we've declared it ours and now we're sovereign here and we can do everything we can't do so far? So we keep wondering why we didn't do it in '94, when the Maritime Code predicted IGP, however, it made it clear that we could only solve it by a parliament decision. And then begins this history of IGP declaring to this day. We made a decision in 2003, so we changed it in '04. And '06. And '08. What does that tell us? That we were obviously in the time of various forces that bothered us or were trying to distract us from achieving the first goal we wanted, which is to join the EU. And of course we've been able to do that as well as state and diplomacy and there's been all kinds of attempts. Were there any mistakes? Looking at where we are today, coming back at that time, I think we haven't done anything wrong to simply this story of how much we want to be sovereign, what we're going to get with it, and we didn't get 2004 or '03. or why some have missed it in the 1990s, etc., doesn't practically lead to anything other than the birth of some of our political muscles so that tomorrow here we can say it's because of us. There will be nothing to do with the Bridge, and because they are doing something here to advocate or want or not to, we simply came at a time when we can settle it in that good neighbourly relationship or spirit that is constantly cited and I think it's the value that every country should accept as it is, regardless of our different political options and what anyone thinks and how they think. And comparing a fleet of valuable Italy with 60 million inhabitants and our fishermen, it's not appropriate because we're gone, we have a better side of the Adriatic to me, but there's just so much less of us than they are on the other side and no IGP will. to prevent something that we think we could, and we haven't already solved with ZERP. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26764	Replica, distinguished representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26765	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, you've done a great job of resuming and it's good to point out once again that it's not what it claims to be and... Our colleague Bull, who is not presently present, how we, behold, were against the IGP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it was never like that, but, as you yourself said, we have achieved through ZERP the protection of our economic interests, however, precisely because of these international-political forces that were behind us, probably looking from this perspective today, we can estimate that there was no right time for it. Then we have through the best possible way, which is ZERP, secured the protection of economic interests. Today, these moments have coincided when possible, and that is the goal of all of us, and it is good to adopt it unanimously. in the Croatian Parliament. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26766	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26767	Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac. I agree with what you said, but we have to take care of the other side. And R. Italy doesn't have an IGP, they used their rights as an epicontinental belt and one zone they called, let's say, a protected zone, and that's how they worked until today, when they said the same thing, and we want what you want. And let's make a deal and there's not a lot more stories about what anyone wanted or why they didn't do when everything could. It's just, it's time today to be the last part on the roof of the house when you put on that... In the end and you say, here's the story with this, we've achieved strategic goals, and that's how we move forward towards this, other goals that we have to solve, Schengen, tomorrow, I don't know, the introduction of the euro, etc., to round up this community that we want to have with the countries that we're with in the community. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we keep telling ourselves that we're the best, that we can do everything ourselves, show us unfortunately, shows us time, and proves that we're much easier in that community than we'd like. Admit it. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26768	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26769	Thank you very much, Vice President. Today, fellow Boric, some have tried to show the tragic unprotected sealine, not only ZERP but also obviously, wanted to show that we are not even protecting our territorial sea. And in a tragic way, it turns out that from the day the IGP is about to suddenly become a protection, and that now, obviously, we've missed everything, that we haven't protected, that we didn't have any quality laws, environmental protection, fish fund, etc., etc. So it was going to show up so far that everything was negative, unquality, no one thought long-term, and not even from President Tudjman any further, and now, suddenly, this is good, even though it doesn't agree that we brought it that way, we could have done it before. So give me a little more explaining, which means ZERP in that segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26770	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26771	Thank you very much, Comrade Cappelli. I'm going to try through one debate, which was led by my colleague, Grmoi, who said that here we are, if we hadn't had IGP, and not ZERP, there would have been more fish. And it's been saying today all day, it means that now that there will be no more ZERP, IGP, our fishermen in Losinj, on Rab Island or anywhere else in Dalmatia, they can certainly be sure that there will be more fish, I don't know, white fish, real fish, probably squid, etc., and there will be no more fish. Because no matter what we talk about, simply, what there is, more or less exists and, of course, through these decisions that we've made, when we wanted to protect, let's say the area of the apple cauldron, etc., that we can keep the fishing fund there and allow the fishermen to function normally throughout the year, they'll simply appear still on different sides of our sea, maybe that space. Now, when they say, there's going to be billions as they've convinced everyone, and the Croatian citizens, there's no billions of them, gentlemen, which we're going to get today because we're going to declare this, not because we had a ZERP. They're just gone and they won't be the way you explained them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26772	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Stephen Nikola Bartulic. ... Excuse me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26773	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers, state secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to look back at an earlier replica, as I have told Prime Minister Plenkovic in the past, I am not here to impress or disappoint people from the government, but to represent the interests of my constituents as my elected representative and to say what I think. So, eventually, I could disappoint my parents, but Minister, please don't talk to me a little bit like that. However, as far as you're concerned, it's bothered you that I mentioned the mentality of courtship, no matter what I grew up in the United States, I've had enough experience in diplomacy for 12 years, to recognize it, unfortunately. I remember the anxiety in the ministry's halls about each visit to Carla Del Ponte when she came to Zagreb, then the government was keen to prove that she was working with The Hague tribunal, that everything seems to find General Gotovina, etc. And it shocked me in some way and it started to bother me that I left the service in the end, but you can't convince me that there's no such mentality that's always hiding in some way, so it's trying to sell to Croatian people that it's all in the interest of their own. I didn't believe it, and I saw what it was about. However, when it comes to fishing, it is again necessary to underline that we would not be discussing this today if Italy had not made this decision for known reasons, unfortunately. I said in the replica that I recognize the decision of 1995. On 5 August, so ‘Storm’. It was the right decision, the right timing, the right political instinct, it was made regardless of whether certain factors were against or did not support it. Then the state kept interests, took care of its interests. This cannot be sold as a single achievement and as a result of the genius of state leadership. I don't accept that. I'm not going to go into this debate about why it wasn't done before, what could be the consequences and the like. I think it's actually a sloppy debate. However, I will mention once again that it is necessary to acknowledge the merits of certain people who are no longer in the assembly, above all Dr. Tonci Tadic, who was tirelessly pushing for it regardless of the circumstances at the time, can still be congratulated and given in some way for the right. Here's hoping we have enough resources to apply, in application of this new state now, that we are truly responsible for taking care of this part of the Adriatic Sea. However, I say this is not the time to celebrate, as Mr Baranovic said the other night on one show, this is the end of a sad story, I think Croatian fishermen are the ones who can best and most honestly give one judgment on this story. Our fishermen and they certainly aren't happy and all the time, as he said, they haven't had unconditional government support over this time of the last 20 years. So we look the truth into the eyes and things are what they are, pressures exist in international politics. I am aware of this, but we must realistically see that rarely when Croatia was able to make decisions independently on the basis of its own interests regardless of what others thought. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26774	We have several replicas, the first distinguished representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26775	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bartulic, 30 years old. Croatian diplomacy 12. You were her integral part as an employee of the Foreign Ministry. If it bothered you so much, that Croatia is going through a sad story about the IGP, you should have left sooner. It is incomprehensible to me that you all succeed in the Croatian states that are in those 30s, and thanks to diplomacy and a lot of diplomacy, particularly to Croatian defenders, etc. You call Franji Tudjman and the Croatian people who followed him a sad story. It's over for me not to say the worse word, unacceptable. This isn't a sad story. As much as I know Mr Baranovic better than you and I have worked with him for many years, this is not a sad story, this is an excellent story in which Croatians have achieved all their strategic goals and ultimately have IGP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26776	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26777	Here's a thank you for this replica. As for this claim that in the last 30 years. No strategic mistake was made in running the state, I disagree. Some things were, especially in the '90s, successfully implemented, but there were also failures, including many moments of weakness where Croatia did not fully protect its interests. Just because I haven't left diplomacy before, I suggest you leave it to me and my family, those are decisions that can't be made easily. All those years I have served this people and this country doesn't necessarily mean that I've agreed with all the decisions and the way diplomacy is done, you can't conclude that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26778	The next replica, the distinguished representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26779	Dear colleague, 30. in the life of any of us is very many years but 30 years old. In the life of one country is only one moment practically in his entire history. I'm saying this for a reason because you mentioned in the finale of your speech as the end of a sad story. Unlike you, I think this is an extension of a wonderful story, a story dreamed of by generations, our grandfathers and fathers until the '90s. You mentioned '95. Nothing happens overnight. From the destroyed country, from the '95s that you mentioned, from Vukovar in the state that it was, from the roads that we had, the highway, here is now the Peljega Bridge, to this economic, announcement of the IGP, I think it's wonderful stories, wonderful stories that happen every day. We're really looking for some kind of negativity. The earth is built, the state is created, from the foundation that was built in blood to the present day. a decision when we are a member of the EU. [[Intruder: Time]] What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26780	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26781	Here's a thank you. I think my colleague Klaric got me wrong. So I was talking about a story with a fishing belt, not everything that's been going on since the '90s. If no democratic change had taken place, it certainly wouldn't have come here from America. So I know what I'm talking about. We need to see for real, so some things are very good and spent and thank God. However, today's attempt to sell as some great success in the series cannot pass, and I just quoted a Mr. Peter Baranovic who spoke for the fishermen and he said it was the end of a sad story, and I didn't make it up, and I think they know best what the situation is all these years. So please state exactly what I said, I did not, I commended, especially the fateful decision on "Storm," so this is a key moment and a good example of bold policy, not this.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26782	The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26783	Thank you very much. Comrade Bartulica, sometimes I don't get surprised by your debate, but I was surprised by this part of when you said you were talking about mentality and your leaving the MVEP because you saw people you obviously didn't say that, but they obviously adapted for some time, and you didn't want me to understand your mentality story that way. Carla del Ponte came in, so it seemed like this or that, or so on, no. And now I'm asking you, you've come a different political way out of that ministry, right, so you've also been advisors to the President of the Republic of Mr. Ivo Josipovic, you wanted to bring God closer to him if I read no, as his advisor, and that was the man from the SDP. After that, you were also an adviser to Prime Minister Oreshkovic, he was from HDZ, let's say supported by HDZ and Mosta and you were a consultant, now you're a code. Mr. Skor. Does that say anything about your mentality? Is that the mentality that made you leave the MVEP, or is that your real mentality? You're either a Republican or a Democrats in America, and you can't be each other there, and you're saying it's normal here. It's not normal.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26784	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26785	Here's my colleague, Boric. I'll be happy to introduce you to the details of your biography if you're so interested. As for what I've done so far, it's been at the invitation of some of the people you've listed, I'm not here to say, I didn't impose on anyone and they can best testify. I advised the former president on religious issues, and I think it was in the interest at the time that an agnostic president has an adviser who does not share the same worldview and is in charge of certain issues. I am also proud of what I did with former Prime Minister Oreshkovic, I am sorry that he did not have the HDZ support, the man was free and knowingly guided by state support, especially public finances, and it all ended sadly as it ended thanks to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26786	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please a little quieter, distinguished representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26787	Mr. Boric is speaking, so you didn't notice, 238, I think it was also a replica. It is rude to address a colleague of BArtulic and to speak of his previous engagements and it is indeed a violation of the Rules of Procedure because it had nothing to do with the replica relating to what the gentleman was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26788	Okay, that's your comment on the replica. It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've got a warning from a distinguished representative. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Miroslav Škoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26789	Dear Mr. Bartulico. There is a debate here today about who is more responsible for one fact, which is that the decision was made in Rome, that it was blessed in Brussels and that everyone mentions two things. First, that it does not change anything or anything else, that with great pleasure it will vote for this decision which makes this debate useless and useless. However, when it comes to personal matters, this was one situation where ruling again showed a great mistrust with emigration, forgetting that there are people in their ranks as head of the Office of the Prime Minister, such as people who lead and work intelligence communities, such as Mrs. Honorable Zdravke Busic, such as Mr. Stier, who also came to Croatia. I think it's positive, I think it should be welcomed and I call on all Croats around the world to do what you did and to follow your example.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26790	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26791	Yeah, thanks for the replica. It's ironic that my colleague Boris has to defend me, but that's how it is. I would say that as far as emigration is concerned, yes, many have come back and made an important contribution. I see that what I'm saying often bothers my HDZ colleagues, I personally don't attack anyone, I don't use an ad hoc attack. So, I'm still going to defend everything I've done so far, no matter how much it bothers you or how strange it may seem to you. I have worked on various functions, always at the invitation of these people, and I will repeat, knowingly, and have kept as much care as I could about the interests of our people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26792	On behalf of the promoter, Prime Minister Gordan Grlic Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26793	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You know, here you always have emotional and rational, and you know this, and I kind of have one combination. And this when you know I'm very sensitive when criticising Croatian diplomacy, I didn't think my colleague Bartulic would go that far. I'm very sorry, I'm very sorry, I can really look you in the eye, I've lived in Switzerland I'm back in 1991, I'm not going to ask where someone's been, etc., it's important to me where I've been. After a year, and we had a lot because you started to say what you were doing etc., of course a man can change it is absolutely and exclusively right and always be a commitment to this or to that, but a man must always be credible and must be himself in what he does and what he does. I with the original Croatian diplomat and know how much I have installed bricks, figuratively, in my service of foreign affairs and I am very proud of the service of foreign affairs. I still know you as a fellow member of the BArtulica staff, so I can't just listen to the flat-rates on Croatian diplomacy. What Croatian diplomacy has done this year is unmistakable indeed in relation to everything we have actually achieved thanks to precisely Croatian diplomacy. And now you're talking about... as success, who's talking about some success, we've just sent something we've done, circled, it's over, this is a procedure, and you're actually supposed to say that this is a success of Croatian diplomacy. Here's a lot of MPs who think this is a big success, for us this is one in a series of jobs we've done and we're waiting for. So, you say what you are, each of us has his biography, I also have the status of Croatian defenders, but I am not here to bid on who is what and how far, Mr. Bartulica Croatian diplomacy is honorable diplomacy and I cannot allow it when you say advocacy. Clearly, I have no right to offend you you have the right because you are a Croatian representative, but I also cannot bear the words you say as foreign minister. I know how much we do, how much we've done, and we know how much work we've got left. If you're ignoring all these achievements that we've only had in this year then I don't have any other arguments, then that's your problem, not ours. So we know what this government did, this government did everything that other previous governments didn't have the courage to do. Therefore, this is indeed the end of one process, but we are moving away from one important topic and this is a quality debate on what IGP means for Croatia, this is an important topic that speaks first of all about the protection of the Croatian Adriatic, together with an important country, which is a European story, which is European values, and here we are talking about a lot of segments of all the contents that are the dominant contained in the ZERP, and here, in some ways, are also being transferred to the IGP. So we should look at it here affirmably. I listen absolutely here and everyone has their right to talk, but let's go with the arguments, let's talk finally about the right things. The Croatian people are looking at us here, Croatian viewers of course I have a lot of work to do in the MVEP, but let's go cheer our people up that they say that Croatian representatives in HS contribute to the national consensus, debate quality, and not to bid on where we are and what we did, etc. Whether we were some kind of counselor or not. I'd just like to take a short time and use it to mrs. Taritash when speeches also reduce the merits of Croatian diplomacy, so listen Italy follows many of us in many aspects. I can tell you from the talks with Mr. Di Maia who said that their path to solving the problem towards Algeria, according to Libya, etc., and Albanian brakes are much weaker than both Croatian and Italian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26794	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Miroslav Škoro, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26795	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. And you're the one who hurt the Art. 238th because, regardless of the former diplomat appointed to office by the late President Tudjman, he was a relatively high diplomat. I must note that this is not a debate about diplomacy and the conflict between Minister Radman and BArtulic, but we are discussing the IGP and its declaration, so I think Mr. Secretary should know that you can't do anything else, but at least break up in his dispose.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26796	..../Speakers speak at the same time./...it was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you have a warning from the honourable representative Škoro. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stephen Nikola BArtulica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26797	Thank you. Stephen, Stephen, that's right. Mr. Minister, I listened very carefully to you, unfortunately after my presentation, there were replicas based on my biography, I'd say personal attacks that had nothing to do with this subject. I have the right to bring some of my own courts and opinions about how the state bodies operate and about the MVEP where I spent a certain amount of time. Then I'm called why I didn't go before and so on, why I worked with this Oreshkovic thing, etc., so I see it as a big sign of weakness and lack of arguments. So face what I said and argue, not personally attack me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26798	The reply of the Honorable Minister. Here you go. Do you have a reply to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26799	... I reacted to your words because you said it was Croatian diplomacy to court, you mentioned Carla del Ponte I don't know why, you left after that service, to me it was your choice. On the other hand, you said we were selling this as a success, so I reacted, so we didn't come here to the store. We came here in the legislative body to present, submit a report and a proposal to declare the IGP to give us a mandate. We are in Italy in Tripartite on Saturday, where we will sign Croatia's tripartite statement with Italy on the announcement, and there will be Slovenia. So that's the procedure, we solved one in one key strategic moment we decided to declare the IGP and we explained why.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26800	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Miroslav Škoro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26801	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. First you should have given the word to me, and then to Mr. Radman, that's number one. And number two, you've hurt your ankle. 232. which says: “The speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. If the speaker moves away from the agenda theme, the president will warn him to stick to the agenda theme. So you definitely hurt the Rules of Procedure and you still gave me a warning. Read it a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26802	Okay, you can appeal to the Constitution Committee and the Rules of Procedure, and I'm giving you a warning because I think you're wrong. That's your second warning. Dear Representative Miroslav Bulj, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26803	Thank you very much, Vice President. The minister misjudged himself for some time, so through our fellow MP Bartulica all along he insulted our emigrants, mainly in his basic speech where he told the man who lived outside that they were rough words. So you're the only one who's wanted this time quite the opposite of what Mažuranić wrote. You wanted 100% in the wrong direction, right? question is 100% missed [[Intruder: Time]] [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26804	You're 100%, you're 100%, you're not in the Rules of Procedure, I see a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have a second warning. Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26805	Thank you, Vice President. My apologies, my colleague's name is not Miroslav, it's Miro Bulj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26806	Excuse me, sir. I apologize to the distinguished representative, Buljo, if I have the wrong name. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26807	Thank you. Dear Minister, you have just stated that this government had the courage that other governments did not have. So this government also had no courage and it had no courage three times when MOST referred to a decision to declare the IGP. It wasn't this government that had the courage, it was the circumstances that made you and Italy go that way to declare the IGP. And we don't want to spoil this solemn moment, but don't fool the public, be honest to the end, it's good to declare IGP, but this government didn't have any special courage. In fact, this government has failed the exam three times, and we will now congratulate you for finally listening to what I've been saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26808	The reply to the replica, Your Honor, is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26809	Thank you, but I also want to tell you and draw attention that I haven't been sitting on my hands for months, so I've been talking about it the same way. Why would you deny me my conversations, my conversations with Luigi Di Maya? Generally I think, so listen to the dynamics, international relations are actually one, one living tissue, one living process. And here's Mr. Bull. And the esteemed poet Ivan Mažuranić, though you quote, but that would mean being, being this able to acquire and escape into a terrible place and exist. So it is important to recognize the right moment, and the right moment is now, so please see this as an experience of Croatian diplomacy to make a decision at the right time “hora is” what Matija Gubec would say.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26810	The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26811	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia, I am pleased that you have risen and come here to defend your own diplomacy and your colleagues that you work with because this was really low on fellow Bartulica, which is why he left the ministry to honor his colleagues that they were like this or that, so that he didn't want to be. And that's why the number of replicas went to him because it's not fair to the people you've worked with. If you wanted to be against that policy, then it's your life that goes after you left the witness to that attitude, but it's not. And that's why we said if you wanted to bring Josipovic to God, and you failed to bring Oreshkovic to the end of the term, and you failed, then you have a problem, you have found a new one. And now it's no longer a jilitate word, now with us in the Primorian-Gorski County or in Istria you have a word for people whose head can fit under any hat, which can be under any ganger or flag, we know that you and you "shot of the bandits" and that's not good for people. Like Mr. Bartulica. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26812	Answer, do you have an answer from the Honorable Minister? Minister, do you have a reply to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26813	No, thank you very much. I'd actually plead just to continue the constructive debate. It's good to see you here to talk about it. The theme is very good and I'm glad that we're all involved, but let's stick to the subject. It is in the Croatian national interest. You are looking here, so from your angle and absolutely you are the reflection of Croatian society selected distinguished parliamentary representatives, but Croatian diplomacy while defending Croatian national interests has the same responsibility on the external political plan. It's an international community where you have other countries where we talk, we negotiate. Here you see and Montenegro I mentioned, they were very interested in what Croatia is doing. So this announcement, the intention to declare the IGP, leaves no one indifferent in the Croatian neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26814	The last replica of the esteemed representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26815	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, you mentioned in this intervention the status of Croatian diplomacy related to this declaration. We can't mention here that there's a matter of some sort of individual government or individual state courage here. It's as easy as a state, and as a government, it's on its own to make a move, but every move normally pulls behind itself and the consequences. We know only one question about how many years it has cost us regarding our Slovenian neighbours and how much it has blocked us on our way to the EU. The thing is the power of a particular state at a certain time and the thing is the relationship between neighbours and the normal thing is diplomacy to recognize a certain moment when it can take a certain move. That's the thing here. What you're saying is the ongoing work of a particular government and a certain ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26816	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26817	Thank you very much. But when you look at, therefore, some other aspects of diplomacy, so you should bear in mind the fact that we are approaching Croatia with this global visibility. 10 years. He was not US State Secretary in Croatia, he was in Dubrovnik on October 2nd. 16 years old. He was not the minister of foreign affairs of Russia,... It was yesterday. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yesterday we organized, the day before yesterday of the Dayton Conference, 25 years ago, it's all said that it was one of the best events actually, incomparable to other conferences where we included both American and European and experts and diplomats, so it was one, also an important event that the media well followed. So there's a lot of these activities and in very difficult conditions, we have COVID-19, but despite all that, we've done a big job.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26818	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to individual debates. The next individual debate is a respected representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26819	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Let's get serious and talk seriously about the subject that's ahead of us. Here I will express my view of what I see as ZERP or IGP, but I will return a bit to the past, and I will say that the eternal pursuit of the Croatian people is an independent and independent state and the changes of 1991 began the process of creating a Croatian state. She's been paid dearly in a bloody war and we're still recovering from the suffering and suffering we've been through. Thank you to all who created an independent Republic, Croatian defenders and eternal thanks and glory to those who loved Croatia more than life so that we can be here and discuss such an important topic. First Croatian President Dr. Franjo Tudjman had a vision that Croatia should go through and what national interests should be realized. So it was first necessary to create a Croatian state, become a member of the EU, join NATO alliance, join Schengen, care for Croats outside the country, develop evenly all parts of the Republic of Croatia, declare the ZERP, or IGP. In the creation of an independent Croatian state, we didn't have many friends and everything had to be taken care of. Only a smart and responsible policy could lead us to the achievement of the strategic national objectives. If we had unilaterally made certain decisions, until solutions were found in the European spirit, we would probably be in a mini Schengen, or in the Southeast Balkans, where Belgrade would again play a major role. What we got and what we lost, judge for yourself. The Titanic did not sink an iceberg that was above the surface of the sea, but it was the one that was beneath the surface of the sea. That's how you feel about politics, the art of a possible one. In short, ZERP's history actually dates back to 1968 when the cold-blooded death model in the former state declared the epicontinental belt until 3 October 2003 and 15 March 2008 when it was found that ZERP would not apply to EU Member States and there was still arbitration with Slovenia. After joining the EU on 1 July 2013, the area of ZERP has become part of EU waters in which the rules of the common fisheries policy apply and cooperates between EU member states on the protection and conservation of the natural resources of the sea, the marine environment and the protection of habitats of certain fish species. The ZERP or eco-protected fishing band has IGP elements in 99% of compliance. The declaration of IGP in relation to the ZERP, which provides for the possibility of exploring, exploiting and managing the natural wealth of the sea and the submarines, also allows for the possibility of building artificial islands and producing energy from natural sources. We in Croatia have 1244 islands, rocks and reefs and it is hard to believe that we will soon need to build artificial islands. The IGP itself is a sea outside territorial waters or sea outside 12 nautical miles from land and can be up to 200 nautical miles in depth towards the open sea. Since the width of the Adriatic, the jurisdiction will be divided in half between Croatia and the Italian Republic with the aim of protecting the sea and Croatian fishermen. It is important here to stress that consultations have been conducted with all EU members regarding the protection of Croatia's interests and here at the end, Thank you. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26820	Replica, the esteemed representative, Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26821	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr Simičević, you said and reminded that Croatia's sea has become a common European fishing sea, today we have heard a lot about some dilemmas and even suggestions to introduce quotas, and I would remind myself that it is important to point out that in the Adriatic as well as the rest of the Mediterranean, resources are not managed on the basis of the quota system, because all Mediterranean Member States, and so on, Croatia, believe that management on the basis of quotas in the Mediterranean does not represent an appropriate approach in terms of several target species in a particular type of fisheries and the inability to target a particular species is therefore more appropriate to approach management on the basis of fishing effort through a limit of fishing days and a spatial time regulation which is possible to achieve the same objective of long-term sustainable fisheries, so it is important that it is once again highlighted here and that some of the claims that we have heard from the interest of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26822	The answer to the honourable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26823	Thank you. So you actually answered the question, so I have nothing to add, everything you said I sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26824	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26825	Dear colleague. It's inconceivable now to call on why we've never accepted the IGP before. I am pleased that the government of the Republic has changed its mind and the Mosta club has been twice against the IGP declaration last term. But on several occasions, you mentioned strategic interests, particularly Dr. Franjo Tudjman, Dr. Franjo Tudjman has not been alive for 20 years. What would you say if no one was behind Franjo Tudjman, was Ivo Sanader, was Jadranka Kosor, was Karamarko, now Plenkovic. Let's tell me what you'd say about that Shacks doctor. Franjo Tudjman, who defended the values of the Homeland War and people, mainly the generals at the location, to arrest, to transfer, to process what the message was to Sanader, Mesic and Sheks, as Dr. Franjo Tudjman?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26826	The answer to the honourable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26827	Thank you, dear colleague. Dr. Crescent. Franjo Tudjman had a vision of the Croatian state when there was no Bridge yet, this vision is still going on today and HDZ wins the elections, and he is implementing the Croatian policy drawn by Dr. Francis Tudjman and on that path we will endure. I believe that the situation now with the fishing belt is much better than when it should have been because in Europe it is simply creating a Croatian state, not having a friend and going past others I don't think it would give the result of what you have in your head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26828	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26829	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice-President of HS, respected ministers, state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is a lot being said in these seven, eight hours of today's debate and in front of clubs and in these individual discussions and over the IGP around ZERP, there is no point in repeating myself. I would refer only to some of the allegations that have been made here today, which may have surprised me a little and surprised me. As it is usually in life and politics nothing actually happens overnight, each serious state has its priorities and thus creates its own foreign and domestic policy. In the process of achieving important state interests, we do not run a 100m race, we run a marathon. And if you run a marathon in the first kilometers, you start at too high a pace, if you spend your energy, then you won't make it to 10 kilometers, let alone run the marathon. With this example, we can actually take analogy to this situation. In fact, the Republic of Croatia has tried to meet its priorities on its difficult path and to realise the ideas it has drawn and the first one already here today mentions the president of the Republic of Croatia many times, such as joining the UN, the Council of Europe, NATO alliance and ultimately the EU. Now the Republic of Croatia declares IGP accordingly, the Republic of Croatia has run its marathon and it is very successful. So the question is, what if we were like some of these guys here next to some opposition MPs in the marathon, and we went in printing the first 100 meters? Very likely after two, three kilometers they'd fall and hardly rise again. What I mean is, we might have an IGP, but would we be a member of the EU? In yesterday's debate, we heard that every euro invested in the European budget received back five euros, and I am therefore very sorry that yesterday was mentioned, which is why many colleagues who are constantly questioning the justification of our membership yesterday were not here in the assembly. It is also unnecessary and I would say that it is malicious to underestimate the content of already declared ZERP because it contains, as 99.9% of all what the IGP contains, as already said, but it should also be emphasized that the Republic of Croatia has rights that it has not explicitly declared on the basis of its other legal regime, which is an epicontinental belt. Therefore, in the area of ZERP, there is a band that Croatia has an ipso facto, so it is not declared itself, but is itself understood. Each coastal state thus achieves sovereign rights over the epicontinental belt to explore and exploit its natural resources as regards the mineral and other inanimate wealth of the seabed and the underworld. Secondly, the 2008 EU Study, which was also mentioned here and which opposition MPs are called on to talk about the alleged millions of euros lost by the Republic of Croatia, however, no one mentioned that it contains a sentence that says that the data in question are indicatively and in a hypothetical situation as if the EU does not exist and that there is no common fisheries policy. What does that mean? This means that it lists the amount of aproximative data that the country has the ability to exploit the sovereign rights given by the IGP. It should also be borne in mind how the Republic of Croatia has exercised all its rights and ZERP's rights since 2003. exactly the basis of the ZERP declaration. Croatian fishermen have been fishing this whole time and are exercising their sovereign rights that enables them to use that belt. It is also important to note that up until now, 85% of the catches have been made in territorial waters while only 15% of the ZERP is lost. Much is said about the term of the IGP, or the question is why now and not before. And here I would refer to what I already mentioned at the outset that every country in making serious decisions that have international repercussions, making sure that they do not question those objectives set as a priority. It is clear that according to the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Law of the Sea, the Republic of Croatia has led a wise policy which, in the European spirit or in the conversation with its neighbours, has, above all, agreed on the declaration of its IGP in the Adriatic Sea. Therefore, I repeat, with a wise foreign policy she has achieved all her foreign-political goals so far and it is nice to see that today in the Assembly we have almost a consensus on this issue despite the wrong, incorrect and malicious remarks of individual parliamentary representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26830	We have several replicas, the first representative of Josip Begonja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26831	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Habiban, somewhere else this morning, here before 7, 8 hours ago, of the work of his fellow Sovereignist, was said with a single dose of ridicule about “you don’t want the IGP to enable the building of artificial islands”. I will remind you that in 2015 we awarded concessions to explore the Adriatic Sea and that in some ways research platforms represent their own artificial islands, so please comment, and then we certainly didn't have IGP.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26832	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26833	Thank you very much. You're right fellow, so in 2015, concessions were made precisely for oil and natural gas extraction, we have several such platforms, so there are these Ivan A, there's Anamaria A, there's this unfortunate one who's recently experienced a certain hoax, and they're all out of the territory of the territorial sea, so within the borders of ZERP, which just proves that what you're saying is quite true, or that unfortunately the colleagues who are no longer present clearly gave up in the fighting are completely wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26834	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26835	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Habib, you mentioned the goals of the Republic of Croatia and what we have achieved since the creation of modern Croatia to this day, all these associations and all the aspirations and goals that we have had to join both NATO and the EU, whether we want to or not, we normally had to give a certain part of sovereignty, whether monetary, whether spatial, any rights we had before unilaterally, now we share it with the other members of a particular association, but when we look at overall that we have unilaterally made decisions from the 1990s to today, that we have unisoned, that we have not collaborated with our neighbours and other colleagues in Europe, in which situation Croatia today would be. I don't know what association we'd be in, if we were even in the EU, what position we'd be in today. That's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26836	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26837	Thank you very much. You're right, Comrade Bacic. So, whenever we talk about international policy and achieving strategic goals, of course, that diplomacy is the one that takes care of it, and only with the wise policy that I have highlighted in my presentation, we can achieve exactly all of these goals that I have set and you have stated, and of course there is always a certain denial of if we can say so,'soverty', so here we now have European waters, so we have common fisheries European policy, but we also have to look at the benefits that Croatia actually has, so what Croatia has to do with it, so we get out of the European budget, starting with 4 freedoms, therefore freedom of movement of capital, goods, services, workers, starting with what I just said, on every euro invested from our budget, 5 euros we get out of the European budget, and I don't think that anyone can question the value or importance of membership in the EU, and also here, we also declare that the IGP, therefore the wise policy that has achieved all these interests right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26838	The next replica is Commissioner Nikola Baradic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26839	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Habib, you mentioned in your debate that the Republic of Croatia has led a wise international policy and that the decision on the mutual declaration of the IGP is good, so my question is what does it mean to protect our Adriatic Sea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26840	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26841	Thank you very much. Well, that's right, so the mutual declaration of this IGP has great importance actually for our entire Adriatic, precisely for its protection. So it doesn't stop here or there won't be an open sea anymore. We all know that in the open sea there is a great possibility of haiarium and we have had several such cases in our past, which, of course, leads to a great pollution of our Adriatic or the marine environment and is just a declaration or mutual declaration, one way to better protect the spread of the jurisdiction is also allowing the application of conservation measures and sustainable exploitation of fishing wealth in a much larger sea space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26842	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26843	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Dear counterpart Habib, at all times he brings his challenges, and you have given a fine overview of these challenges, from creating a free, sovereign, independent Republic, winning our country's imposed war, joining NATO and the EU, now there are two other goals, entering the Schengen area and the Euro area, following the natural fight against the crown, and making better use of the 24.2 billion euros coming from the EU budget for economic recovery, i.e. it is crucial that you create allies in life and not opponents. I think this proposal is good timing at the right time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26844	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26845	So I can only agree with my fellow Uncle, he's all well-numbered and added what's yet to come, I can only use this time to mention that it was said here that Italy actually forced the Republic of Croatia to declare the IGP, or that it was because of what it's done now Italy so it should just look at 2016. So the ministry's conclusion is that it's actually all expensive and this whole story is on its way. It may seem slow and long to us, but in diplomacy, that's how it works, but here it turns out that it was the right decision and that all strategic interests, I repeat, have been achieved and we are an EU member and we will have the IGP and it is good that the opposition is here today because otherwise the question is that this would all end together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26846	The next individual debate is a distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26847	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Any state that has access to the open sea has the right to declare an IGP, according to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Sea in '82. Today we have heard a historical review of the exercise of that right, so every country has the right to do so. We have heard, of course, the history of the difficult achievement of that right, and of course we can be satisfied that we will finally declare our own belt. What we've heard, and maybe we haven't heard the best, so perhaps in the end Mr. Minister can add a little bit to the exact differences, so that we don't joke about, with artificial islands and exploiting the energy of sea currents and winds because, of course, in all the documents, it's about declaring the exclusive right that it's actually possible to establish control of marine spaces and of course that control isn't just going in terms of the economy, it's already connected to radar, and so planes, fast ships, etc. What we seem to have left here or commended the ministry cannot be done just because Croatian politics although we understand everything whether the circumstances and the context of the recognition of the Republic of Croatia, so why ZERP had to be put to a start, etc., but we still don't understand until '13. We've been coming in since we got here, but this is still reactive. Those who read other languages know, however, that Italy here is slightly threatened by the strengthening of the Albanian fleet, which is now a more significant fishing fleet than it is Croatian. However, I will not say the pressure, but Italy's decision and we are, it does not mind that there are bilateral relations because if you look at what we currently call in the EU European waters and EU countries located in both the North Sea and the Atlantic, all have been declared by the IGP. Few countries have agreed to distinguish between the two countries. So this is here and the question and the distinctions, not just, not just the IGP announcements. Why I don't think we reacted well, that it was retroactive, but that's something that's already happened. So today the minister tells us earlier in defense, says we're going to cheer our people up. I think it's Christmas coming, some Santa Claus, someone's Santa Claus, but to cheer our people up if we don't communicate differently what our foreign policy is doing, this might have been a little bit poetic to cheer people up and pre-Blessed. What I think we have now is a chance, and here it's said that it's tripartite, that there's Slovenia. The minister also said, I like to record his poetic phrases, says Slovenia is curious. So, Slovenia is curious, so it will participate in this signing, but this may be an opportunity for this same Slovenia, and before Slovenia, that it and Montenegro may go easier, and then we start negotiations on the border again with BiH. So, we're going to make a conditionally different belt, i.e. The border at sea, so let's see if we can, can our diplomacy show better to resolve some other disputes with Slovenia, that with Montenegro finally also because I think that maybe then these ships can meet not only from Albania to Italy, perhaps through the territory of Montenegro to ours, to our seas. So I think it's time for our diplomacy, here's parallel now, now we've solved this, so let's also solve the question of our borders in the manner of all the open issues we have, but in the manner of good neighbourly relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26848	One replica, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26849	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, there is no need to be surprised by the minister's poetic expression. Well, when one of the most important people in the world comes to you, the foreign minister of the European Federation, you read him poetry, it really looks like one serious diplomacy. But back to the topic, actually, to the point. We've all talked about the Adriatic Sea today, but we forget that Italy is not only a country, a maritime land on the Adriatic Sea, but also in the Mediterranean. And actually why is Italy declaring IGP? It solves the problem of Algeria and Libya above all, but less Albania and perhaps some other countries on the Adriatic. But the fact is that we can also cheer our people up that we will have indirect benefits, but not from, not from the fact that we have declared IGP, but from the fact that Italy did it, which is a little ironic in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26850	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26851	Well, I mean, personally, it really isn't, I'd say it doesn't matter who started it. In well-neighboured conversations in true diplomacy, it doesn't matter, but then you shouldn't brag that we've done something so extraordinary. It's been a really historic long time to do it, regardless of what we've heard now, whether it's the entrances, not the entrances, the blocking around the EU. Since the '13s, it's been enough years, especially if I go back to the basic sentence, so where it says that every maritime country has the right to declare, so we're right, we could defend. It's another issue of demarcation, some other countries don't have it, take a closer look. What I think I'm going to commend here, Mr. Minister, I don't think it's bad to read poetry, but in diplomacy it's very important to be warm and it's nice to know Russian, but of course, otherwise perhaps in some informal relationship, and it's different to do it in formal relations, so it doesn't seem condescending. Otherwise, I'm a teacher. And I love reading poetry. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26852	Okay, now that we're 2.5 hours away, we need to take a air break. We'll continue at 16 and 40. 16:40, 15 minutes break. It's 4:00.25. E, we're moving on with our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 16,40 HOURS]] Next individual debate, distinguished representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26853	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, this is an opportunity for the Croatian Parliament to support this proposal by consensus of the Croatian Government and it is likely to be so. This is what Croatian citizens expect from us and Croatian citizens. During the debate, however, different tones, especially perhaps two thesis, were also heard. One of the possible lost money which has not been announced before is the second question, why the economic belt has not been declared before. On the first issues, however, various studies were mentioned, assessment of losses, but one more mention should be made of these studies, but also in general, that they were made assuming that Croatia was not in the EU or that none of our neighbours were in the EU. Then you could talk about those millions of euros that are lost. Or, of course, you could be talking about the period until '13. the year, until the EU, but not after that. So that's the first explanation. Secondly, of course, why not before, and during the debate there were a lot of words that were state priorities, in which way it had to be easily managed and which had the support of both the HS and the end line, of course both Croatian citizens and the referendum on its own and, of course, the referendum on EU accession. Of course, we must not be naive and those of us who have worked and worked in international politics, or in diplomacy or as officials, we know that international politics can also be cruel. We know that more or less twisted blackmails happen, we know, especially that there were those who did not want Croatia to gain international recognition or wanted to pay as much as possible for international recognition. We know that there were those who were against our entry into NATO and against joining the EU or wanted it to be at as high a price as possible. But the solution to such a situation is never to complain, it is never to be disheartened, it is not, what President Tudjman would say, under these and such circumstances to withdraw or have some infancy. No, but the solution is always to persist in strategic goals, while at the same time being flexible in tactical moves. As during the defense of Croatia, it would not be prudent to attack the military in '91. Mr. rather than wait, strengthen yourself, acquire the international support needed for the successful implementation of the '95 Liberation Action. So I'm not saying it, and I'm aware that both our institutions and our politics, of course it's not perfect, but I can't agree and I don't want to agree to any downside or that Croatia is a failed project or that our institutions simply can't do anything right. I just can't agree to that. I believe that with this policy, politics, yes, the unity of Croatian country and emigrated people, the Croatian people managed to achieve their national independence first, then NATO membership, membership in the EU, I know that those who disputed, too, found a way, and that is the value of Croatian diplomacy, that today can work with them, and even in one allied spirit, and that is the victory of diplomacy, and in this context, this declaration is now to be considered, that is, to be prepared for the declaration of the economic belt as well as this trilateral meeting with Italy, and also with Slovenia. In this regard, I would like to emphasise once again the support of this proposal and I believe that it will receive support, if not all, then the vast majority of parliamentary deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26854	We have a few replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26855	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Stier, here is the matter of the interest of a particular country, when we look at its energy but normal, and fishing capacity, we cannot talk about these lost millions in the past 20-year or 30-year period, but at the end of this debate we must hardly reject this thesis about Croatia as a failed project. You are long and personal in Croatian diplomacy, you know everything and we all know that all Croatia as a country has passed since its draft, modern, private Republic and we must be honest here and mention all the priorities of the 1990s, here and from many times mentioned by the first Croatian President Tudjman, all priorities have been met to this day, so that we can very well be raised with successes, normal, diplomacy, but all past governments of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26856	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26857	Thank you, colleague, and in this very spirit where you have led this debate, it should also be pointed out that this final part of the protection of the Adriatic, which now enters the finality of the economic belt, has started the final part of the government's conclusion in October 2016, which we have here and in the report and later by fulfilling the MVEP that government has made to make a report, it was done in 2017, and in that report the way towards the declaration of the economic belt is emphasized, of course with continued dialogue, the dialogue that has continued and which can now be successfully completed with this trilateral meeting on Saturday, and then the announcement and activation of the IGP since '21.g.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26858	The next replica is the esteemed representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26859	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleague. I agree with your debate that all of Croatia's goals so far have been important, so do we in Croatia, but also the emigrated Croatia all strategically have been achieved through joint action and so should be. What saddens me today during this debate during this topic which is really in the interest of all of us, all of Croatia that they want to show themselves again who has bigger muscles, who is a larger sovereign, who is a bigger Croat. I don't think it should be a focus on these topics. This is a topic that is in the interest of all of us, it's not bad that at this point Italy admits its IGP it is also going to our advantage. As a diplomat, you know that in diplomacy many times important at which point decisions are made and that is why I think we should have talked today about what Croatia is getting and why it is in Croatia's interest, and we do not need to show the muscles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26860	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26861	My colleagues, thank you for that. I deeply believe in the reconciliation of the eviction and homeland of Croatia, I believe that in the emigration of our people patriots, especially those who have returned and want to make their contribution, but should also be valued and to know that the Croatian people who were in the country were the bearer of this dream of creating a state and this proved to be in the first democratic elections. We do not need to endanger this unity with anything, and certainly not with this subject. And I agree with you that it is important that we now have a new understanding with Italy about the protection of the Adriatic. This is a very important issue, and I also mentioned when I went to look at the Italian Parliament's documentation there is just mentioned that Croatia had already gone with ZERP to protect and that is another additional argument why Italy was now going that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26862	And the last replica, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26863	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Stier. So, what we were talking about when we were actually talking about losses from at least my perspective, the possible losses we at least achieved in my opinion at the time when ZERP did not apply properly, since we only entered the EU in 2013. But, of course, it allows me that there have been other moments related to the accession negotiations, or the fulfilment of the conditions for accession, etc., but now all of this aside. I think that today we all agreed that you said we would support this and that this is a good thing for Croatia especially in the sense that as you have said now we have a new understanding with Italy about the protection of the Adriatic. But at the same time, it's nothing so spectacular or bringing us such new benefits, at least this announcement on our part that we can write about it I don't know what laudes. So other than that the good at the end is going to change significantly it won't do anything, at least our declaration, Italian is something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26864	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26865	Thank you, buddy. Neither to enter into any extreme triumphalism, and I have not seen it today in the exposure of the government, but neither to pessimism nor to the indifference that nothing in the Croatian state is wrong. Today we have an important moment, and that is why the expectation of Croatian citizens is that we all contribute and support this proposal from the government, and I am convinced that this proposal will indeed pass, as you mentioned, with the support of all or almost all MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26866	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Willi Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26867	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Much is said today about how we were protected by a protected ecological fishing belt or by not being able to apply it on how the fish fund was halved. All of us privileged in this building that we are still going to the Adriatic, either because of origin, or because we are still able to pay for holiday vacation at sea, so we all know well what the Adriatic bottom has become in the distance of just a few decades. The general wasteland, the eerie desolation or the vastness of aggressive tropical algae that destroy sponges, corals, hedgehogs, suppress all other marine organisms, the rest of the stars, those colorful worms that have come who know where the dangerous same fires come from, these are algae that don't feed any species, no fish, no ghouls. So unfortunately, citizens can see it mostly only in documentaries. Now to restore the fish fund, so that the young fish can grow up in adult fish first we all have to grow up here, which means grow up and give up growing up. To give up on the growth of fishing, to give up on the rise of ballast water spills, to give up on the growth of mega cruisers, to give up unsustainable growth to protect the Adriatic Sea. To give up the growth of concessions on the drilling of the Adriatic, most of the urban underground, in search of oil and gas, means to grow politically as a nation. It can be called an adult, among other things. A policy that has clearly set values, clearly set policy objectives, which care about environmental protection, which truly cares about the transition to renewable energy sources, such a responsible, sustainable policy, will be very easy to find in both Slovenia and Italy, Montenegro and Albania, only such a policy can protect the Adriatic Sea. In such a policy, Europe will support us, and precisely because of the responsible sustainable policy, a sustainable green economy, it will prefer to come to Croatia. And not just at sea, because it will be known that we have stopped leading the hypocritical HDZ policy, Minister Coric's policy, LNG politics. This announcement of the IGP, of course, is clear to all that it is not about any exceptional political achievement, even less about diplomatic achievement, it is about simple political mechanics, political power mechanics. The big neighbor hasn't for decades, now the big neighbor has another interest, so he pushes us, pushes us, and so, if they push us further, we're still, if they stop us, we stop. I'm glad the Ministers, that at least at that point in time they warned you, rebuked you to refrain for at least some time from answering our debates, not to share your wise advice on life and the world. The first part of the debate you managed to completely turn to your person and to your political instinct, to your diplomatic sense for a moment. Ministers Grlic Radman, you are obviously unable to assess the irreparable damage you do to Croatian diplomacy in your own special style that leaves a cynical ugliness throughout Europe and the world, and shames Croatian citizens. The human resources policy of the HDZ shows that the state of your political and diplomatic stock is far more miserable than the fish stocks in the Adriatic Sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26868	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26869	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleague, dear Minister, State Secretary. Well, here I can really congratulate you, Minister, for continuing the policy of wise sovereignty that came from Tudjman. I don't think so, Mr. William Matula, you're an actor, you're neither a biologist nor an oceanographer, you're not even a diplomat, uh, you certainly don't know, that the minister has style, he's special, but he's passing. It passes into the EU, we saw it with the presidency, we saw it with many successes we have had in the last few years, and I congratulate him on that. And you may grow up once like Oscar in a tin drum, but maybe stick to culture until then. When we look at this modern sovereignty that started with Tudjman, we are aware that in order to create a state, it needed wisdom. First we should get a confession from all states, then fight the war to fight independence. That's when we were looking for friends, and one of them was Italy. We are aware that every country, of course, is looking at its own interests first, but then, we know that the first statesman to come to President Tudjman was Mr Cossig, and we remember Mr. Demikelis who was a great friend of Croatia. Today we have two other big goals, Schengen and IGP. If we go unilaterally into any of these operations, we can see what's going on. We should go partnerly, we can block each other. We also see what happened to Slovenia, blocking Croatia, how much trust it lost. And that is why I am glad that Jansa has just given up on this policy and one step forward that exactly the friendly two states, Croatia and Slovenia, that President Milanovic and Prime Minister Plenkovic have entrusted Mr Jansa with us for the last time on the Council to represent us. He could not speak for himself, he had to speak for what Croatia had prepared, but this is one way of trust and one way to go. Let's go back to the topic, by entering the EU, the Adriatic Sea has become a European sea, a common fisheries policy is being implemented. As pointed out in the debate on Apple boilers, the Oceanography and Fisheries Institute is monitoring the situation there, it was a protection until 9. It will protect the younger fish and protect the area. As someone who comes right from the oceanography world, I graduated in meteorology and oceanography, the physics of the sea, I was involved in researching electricity in the Adriatic, in 2003 we had a visit to two research ships. It was NATO's Alliance research ship for 3 months and a US research ship for 3 months. I was sorry, and I felt ashamed that in 2003 we measured the currents more in the Adriatic than in 100 years. 100 years ago. before. I was aware as a young scientist at the time that we had other priorities, EU entry, NATO entry. However, with this IGP, it may have been time to build a larger research ship that will serve all our institutions from Rovinj Institute Ruđer Bošković, the Croatian Hydrographic Institute, the Institute of Oceanography and Fisheries in Split and Dubrovnik for scientific purposes, together with the PMF in Zagreb and the Geophysical Institute at the PMF. What I propose is that we build one such ship with the EU's resources from a green hydrogen plan and be one of the leaders in such a direction that we have a research ship that, in the largest storm and the south, can come out and that our scientists from all these institutes and institutions can use it. This morning we discussed the Island Act, I made a recommendation to the Ministry of the Regionals to reflect this adoption of the IGP and the Island Act. Some of them said artificial islands don't matter, let's write it down, see, we're proud that today, and congratulations to the Minister, that we have this decision. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26870	You have two replicas of your presentation, Honored Representative Boric will be the first replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26871	Mr. Pavic, I don't know if, have you thought of the same Mr. Jansu who tells the presidents too soon, the best friend of Mr. Orban and the one who has for years prevented Croatia from solving any other problems similar to what we were talking about today, borderlinely, when you commended and exactly the choice, his choice instead of Mr. Plenkovic to represent us, is that also a good move in diplomacy, do you think?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26872	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26873	Thank you. Ma'am. Rada Boric, unlike you, I respect the choice of Slovenian citizens. Mr. Jansa is the prime minister of our friendly and neighbouring states. And I am pleased that the neighbouring country could represent us on the European Council. To whom I congratulate Mr. Jans for the President of the United States, I don't think that's what Croatian citizens are interested in. What we're interested in is that we develop good neighbourly relations with common policies, and this is exactly a step forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26874	The next replicas of the respected representative, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26875	I'm sorry, I didn't hear you through the mask. So, like this, you told fellow Pavic to build a research ship and I welcome you here, I look forward to such projects. I would just like to remind you that your government has shoved the last nail into the shipbuilding coffin and that of the Oilman who built a highly sophisticated polar cruise called "Scenic Eclipse" which now stands on the river dock that he has proven and that number shows that we are capable of building highly sophisticated ships, but that requires protecting its shipbuilding, subsidising its shipbuilding, not calling it a bottomless bag because it does not think, therefore neither Korean, nor Chinese, nor Italian shipbuilding that are leading in the world. They do not call their shipbuilding a bottomless bag but already know that without state subsidies one such brand cannot survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26876	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26877	Thank you very much. Well, on the contrary, I think the workers are 3. Maya is just grateful to this government and to all the support she's given, but there are also certain rules of play in the club, protecting the competition. 3. In May after the restructuring, it was not possible to provide further state support. This government if anyone was, here I am who the Minister of Labour was in both the Uljannik and the 3rd. We were working really hard and looking for solutions, and if someone was looking for solutions within the existing framework, it was Prime Minister Plenkovic and Workers 3. Maya is grateful to us for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26878	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26879	Just a little reminder, I'm going to use this time the Oilman wasn't restructured. And now a speech about the IGP announcement. The people who watch this, the fishermen, the workers, the special notice, have no news for the dissuaded majority in Croatia, only the breaking news that we are now even more sovereign because the imaginary line will be pulled over the Adriatic because the Italians wanted to or rather the Italians informed us that we have agreed to close the Adriatic for fishermen outside the EU. Among other things, that decision was important to the Italians because they sold ships to Albania which, unlike us, did not destroy fishing fleets, restored its fleet. Although Minister Grlic Radman argues that this, I will quote, one of the most significant events in Croatia, immediately admits that by changing ZERP to IGP, nothing will change, or that the right to build artificial islands and to use the energy of sea currents, waves and wind, we see Croatian businessmen starting to write projects for the construction of new Croatian artificial islands. Artificial islands will not be built, protection from Italians fishing fish will not be introduced, and the fishing regime will not change. There will therefore be no imaginary Croatian fleet that will hunt in Spanish territorial waters because such fleets do not exist even though Minister Grlic Radman sees such a fleet. He also said that sovereignty is strengthened along with the Italians, it is well said, but rather we would say that it determines and confirms submission. If we were talking about the famous sovereignty in the Adriatic, we'd be much more sovereign, we were more sovereign in that dark dungeon of the people of Yugoslavia, when, when the conventions and laws applied to the epicontinental belt were passed. Today, the fishermen warn you of the following. They say, we are other people's fishing boats and without the declaration of an economic belt during Yugoslavia from 1968 to the EU we were free to punish. The moment their fishing gear reached the bottom, they violated the provisions of the epicontinental belt and the wealth in contact with the bottom and which are below the bottom, they were not allowed to touch. Now, the fishermen say, things are different because everything we do, we have to deal with Brussels. There is, of course, nothing controversial about this decision to declare the IGP, but the story of sovereignty and new sovereignty, which is very often on the agenda here, is something we should seriously ask ourselves. The withdrawal of the imaginary trait in the middle of the Adriatic to call the most important event in Croatia, the day after 92 people died of Covid shows the true character of what the ruling likes to call new sovereignty. This sovereignty comes down to empty gestures like this, true sovereignty would be declared a whole Croatian economic belt that would be excluded and excluded from non-critical integration into international financial and economic flows and acceptance of the game of free competition, which is neither free nor game, is already a new form of imperialism, and from our government, the form of autocolonialism, which renounces any autonomous and sovereign economic policy. There is no way to achieve the development of a rich country at the EU capitalist periphery because the rules of the competition are such that they favour those already ahead. According to Minister Pavic, we must follow the rules of the competition. We don't have to follow, former ministers, rules of the game. We must protect our interests, we must protect the interests of our workers, we must protect the interests of the working majority. It's the only thing we have to do. In order for the EU to be a solid community and to be able to overcome inequalities, it would be a minimum for the EU to become a fiscal union, the fiscal union would mean a common collection of taxes, while the common budget would finance common public policies, which would aim to produce for the needs of and transform towards a green democratic and cooperative economy. It can also be abolished by the domination and transfer of technologies and the protection of exports of less developed countries, but of course this will not happen from those and policies of those who consider it necessary. Keep some rules. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26880	Thank you very much. We're seeing two plates for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The first respected representative of Pavic, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26881	Thank you very much, Vice President. Art. 238, my colleague Peovic misstated, I didn't say anywhere that the Uljanik was being restructured, I said it was 3. May was restructured and couldn't be invested, I was present when he... I brought a plan with 10 billion kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have now saved 600 thousand jobs with 10 billion kuna. And if any government knows how to protect our interests, it's this one, ma'am. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26882	Thank you very much. You're aware that it wasn't, that it was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I must give a warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, honourable representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26883	Mr. President, I'm reporting a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 232, because it seems to me, probably others, that Mrs. The esteemed representative missed, spoke out of the agenda theme by glorifying Yugoslavia and its solutions to the protection of sovereignty, and since it is a painful topic for us defenders, I think she has made a double mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26884	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, we must also tell you that it is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, regardless of what I may personally agree with your opinion, but it is irrelevant what you think and what I think, it is not an injury, unfortunately, of the Rules of Procedure. So I'm giving you a warning, too. Dear representative Peovic. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26885	Injured Rules of Procedure, so, 238, both in the first and second cases. I'll explain. So, MP Pavić amounts to... [[I gave a warning about it, be careful.]] What? Well, I also have the right to deny in my explanation, you can give me a warning, but I have the right to do so in breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: That's why I gave the warning.]] I have, so you can't deny me an explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, whatever you think of it, and I ask that time return and let me explain. [[No, you don't. But...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26886	No, no, you'll get a warning, and, uh, your time's up, I told you, since I'm...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26887	No, you can't take my time because you as vice president of the Parliament have to let me explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure without interrupting me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26888	I gave you, I saw that you that you abuse the institution of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure [[No, you didn't give me, I'm sorry, you interrupted me. /]] As well as both. [[Intruder: Others have abused and you can say...]] Your predecessor, and therefore I have warned them, and I have warned you. [[Aggressor:...but you can't interrupt the representative and the representative as they speak.]] I saw you speak completely outside, which is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: Yes, but you let them say it all the way.]] Okay, I'm giving you [[Intruder: But it's not up to you to define it.]] Based on Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. In 240, I [[Intruder: You can give a warning.]] We are going to the next club of representatives, and this is the final Club of Representatives Mosta, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. [[Intruder: Great Democracy.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26889	Thank you very much. I will immediately say here, from the debate it is visible that here they are called upon in what is not only a matter in artificial islands and platforms but in the sovereign rights that we gain in the centuries ahead of us by declaring the IGP. And those who say we are not in control must know that Croatian land territory is much more empty, even empty than our seas. We have more ships, we have a large portion of the land part of our territory that has been emptied, so we do not give it up but we will defend on that part of sovereignty. Was the IGP supposed to be declared nice? Yeah. Is there a lot of damage? Yeah. Is it from the Rapal contracts a hundred years ago that the Italians are pretentious? Yeah. Did Tajani Fascist, President of the European Parliament who was a friend of Andrej Plenkovic say that Istria and Dalmatia were Italian? Yeah. Yeah. Did Italy declare IGP, so we declared IGP? Yeah. But I will support it because in the last term I proposed twice, there were three times, even a government, Prime Minister Plenkovic's first decision was to launch the process of declaring the IGP. That can be confirmed by Davor Ivo Stier. And this isn't just a hollow story of the IGP announcement. If we're going to make full use of the IGP, we're going to strengthen our coast guard, we're going to make sure our fishermen have a fish market, we're going to fight for our fleets, we're going to leave the fishermen alone so far we're going to fight for the fishermen, that's a question for us. Al is a sovereign right Croatian and now 5 years ago. when we proposed 20 years ago. when proposed by our predecessors Tadic, HSP then Kandare and our other predecessors MPs. Yeah, well, we're not suggesting this because of the artificial islands, it's a sovereign right over it, it's a sovereign right over that territory Croatian. If that's not true, you deny me. The fact that until now, until Italy has declared the IGP you have thrown into the mud that we kneel, that you only remember that Franjo Tudjman was your president, and you do not remember that Ivo Sanader and Jadranka Kosor, Tomislav Karamarko, and, above all, Ivo Sanader, that it was more important for you to arrest all the generals who led the Liberation War than to declare the IGP, it was themselves admitted by Branko Bačić when he said we had to make certain national interests of our dispensation to enter the EU. I believe we must declare an IGP. I believe that now, I considered it 5 years ago, I welcome it mainly to all the people who participated in the citizens' initiative "The Sea and the Land", then I was also one of the activists who called for the IGP to be declared, but did not give Sanader, did not give Shakespeare, did not give the EU adjudication to Carla Del Ponte, kneeling to Carl Del Ponte. And there's the problem. And the IGP declaration we have to protect our environment, we have to protect it maximumly in that area, maximum. We need to strengthen and apply this IGP. We've got to fight for our fisherman, so we've been waiting when he says he's thrown himself, he's got a executioner, and he's hit the srid. You didn't hit the srid, but with your policies, you forced us to kneel, iron in the mud, in the mud, and the Croatian people didn't deserve it. It is difficult to gain this freedom, especially those of the elderly who were Croatian defenders here among us, that we are hard to deal with in the mud. Not everything, not everything is black or black, but the fact is that what my colleague Stier said was not a failed project, but that's what your fellow Stier coalition partner said. That was said by Deputy Prime Minister Boris Milosevic's chief man, who targeted his Twitter. That's what he said. Is Croatia like we fought to be empty? We didn't want it to be empty, we wanted a sovereign Croatia, a sovereign Croatia, and this is a sovereign right, and that's why I'm going to vote both arms and arms. And I'm glad you changed your mind. But 40 billion in the last 20 years. It's gone. Who knows whose hands. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26890	Thank you very much. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honored Representative Branko Bačić. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26891	He's been injured. The 237th year, Vice President, because Mr. Bulj, a great esteemed colleague, Bulj, is constantly taking me into the context of something that I'm not connected to. But apart from him taking me in that context, he mixes persistent pears and apples. For him, neither Mr. Francis Tudjman, the first president of the Republic of Croatia is sovereign enough because during Mr. Franjo Tudjman, several generals went to The Hague. Therefore, and other than that, and later some generals went to The Hague voluntarily [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you]] He's not familiar with history and I think you should warn him when in this way he brings out the wrong facts, especially on my account. [[Thank you very much, you know...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26892	You know it's not, you know it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a replica, so I'm giving you a warning. Tell your colleague Bull, what's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26893	Thank you very much. Allow me to explain these 30 seconds of violation of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Bačić who has injured the Art. 238. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26894	Well, I gave him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26895	...who has injured an art. 238, where he said, where he mentioned Dr. Francis Tudjman. Well, dr. Franjo Tudjman...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26896	But it's me, I've warned my colleague Bacic about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26897	... Would you say yes to dr. Franjo Tudjman to arrest and locate and transfer and deliver? I speak 20 years. Since Sanader's president, why don't you mention Sanader? [[Employer: A colleague...]] I'll remind him if you're afraid.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26898	I gave him, I gave him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26899	I'll remind him of my colleague Reiner if... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26900	Based on an article. In 241 I give you a reminder by taking away your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26901	So let's say until the end, you gave him 55 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26902	Okay, next, next... you've missed your time. Next, the next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ivo Stier will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26903	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At the end of this debate, and after yesterday's debate in the EU and Croatia's response to the crisis, it seems to me that these two topics are very much related. Yesterday we discussed the protection of society, the protection of the economy and the tools that Croatia has at its disposal thanks to its member of the EU, today is the debate on the protection of the Adriatic. I believe, Mr. Minister, that after the vote tomorrow where I believe that there will be a large majority or all of the representatives for this proposal of the Government, then with such strengthened support of HS you will also go to a meeting in Trieste and that we will also have an effective fruitful meeting in this respect. It is in the debate we heard criticism on the one hand and on the other, now at the end of one little neo-marksist elaborate on what needs to be protected and how. The fact that neither the former Yugoslavia has declared an economic belt after the '82 Convention, but here we will leave it now for some other debate and criticism of those who want to reduce or deny the importance of our entry into the EU at all as if the alternative to joining the EU was that we will be like the British Empire or I don't know what kind of powerful state we can today in a world where we live in a world where we can protect our national interests better than that of the EU. Ignoring the fact that reality, geopoliticals clearly indicate that we did not finish negotiations in 2011. We would probably still be in the waiting room today, probably today those who have worked very hard not to join either NATO or the EU would offer us today to be in some Balkan association, some regional association, some customs union, etc. Well, then those who criticize our membership would certainly be dissatisfied today. However, they are reducing the importance of our membership now and it is not simply reasonable. To reason is to lead a policy that had in mind that a new understanding should be reached and a new understanding was reached with Italy on the protection of the Adriatic, not only about protecting the Adriatic and the concept of a solidarity Europe that we spoke about yesterday, so a Europe that acts before this crisis is different from what it did after the crisis or during the Eurozone crisis. And the value of inclusion and Slovenia, which we have said several times even though we do not accept the arbitration court or that decision, which was made unfortunately after the compromise of the process, but which we entered after the decision of the two-thirds majority of this Assembly and proved to be contrary to those criticisms which were then heard that Croatia would lose the right to the economic belt, that this famous chimney would enter our sovereignty space, has proved to be simply not so. But it has also been shown that the Croatian state and then, of course, Croatian diplomacy has the maturity to include Slovenia now and in these talks, that it is good because of good neighbourly relations but also because of a common commitment to the protection of the Adriatic, which, of course, protects our interests and, of course, because of a common commitment to a solid Europe where we as a Croatian state will be able to develop further on behalf of all Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26904	Thank you very much. The next club is the club of Croatian sovereigns, and will finally be spoken by the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26905	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. First of all, I must commend you ministers for being here all the time, and I really appreciate it, unlike many ministers who are not in the Parliament all the time and do not listen to Croatian representatives. Here he would have a little replication of his fellow Stier, this is HS and you and I, or should have been the priority of the Croatian state alone, and not of some kind over the formation, which is the EU. And I'm a Eurosceptic, and I'm really going to have this EU reconsider itself and really want you and me and Minister Radman and Andrej Plenkovic to really sit at the table and see and make a calculation of that cost benefit analysis. I'm not quite sure that in that cost benefit analysis it would be what you just said or what Minister Radman claims. Maybe I'm right, but let's talk about it. Here you'd just mention here's colleague Begonja told me one thing that's true and oil platforms can belong to some category of artificial islands and we can then... and that's good. Look, this belt is a good thing, but here's the thing. Listen to me and try to do this in a way. Here I am really going to try to be maximum cooperative and affirmative. You'll be back with Italy in a few days at the meeting, and I'm called the numerous HDZ high-ranking, and they tell Zekanovic you're the only one who's hit a metric from the various ministries involved. Now listen to me, and these are their words, the meanings of your HDZ colleagues, but my thoughts. So you're going to be with the Italians again at the meeting, and there's going to be a line of demarcation, right? So it won't be determined. Now no, but one day okay, okay not now but it's going to be over some period okay. Before the line determines what I said and gives the amendment that you will unfortunately reject I suppose, try to condition the protection of the IGP completely because otherwise if we accept the demarcation, and we have not protected our IGP from fishing, we will never protect it. We'll have this fishing status forever and now is the only time to blackmail them. I'll tell you this, I know we're a small country, that we're funny in European frameworks, but what we can do like this, and we have an obligation to the EU, so we have to protect 30% of our sea. Okay, the IGP is bigger than that, and it must have 10% strict protection, 10% must have strict protection means 5,000 km2 and something must have strict protection but such a zone. Let's do it in the IGP, let's do all 30,000 km, pardon 30% and 15,000 km, respectively, how much protection we're going to have to make in the IGP make a huge fish stand and get a huge benefit for our fishermen. Someone mentioned, my colleague Pavić mentioned the apple cauldron, a good example, I really commend it, and that's good, that's where we managed to make it, let's move on, let's move on. The fishermen call me today 100 fishermen called me, say the people we're hunting shrimp now on the edge of an apple cauldron like this thanks to the protection. Let's do it on our IGP what we're going to do one step further, if we just declare this the way it's going now, and we don't fully protect the IGP as I have concluded and the amendment, we really haven't done anything. And when we make a line of distinction, you know that you don't have any anymore, you and your colleague Stier know that and he's been in high foreign policy and you are. You've got nothing left to trade with, you're just out of position. So in the coming months, weeks are crucial, and we'd have an excellent argument here a little bit think about this right now, we'd have an excellent argument to tell the Italians tomorrow, HS has obliged us to protect it. Do you understand me? When the Italian parliament made a unanimous decision to declare the IGP, the IGP was declared, imagine which argument you would have. You can't do any different than HS told you. Let it not be my amendment, let it be yours, give it some relief, change it to be acceptable to Andre Plenkovic and to you, because this call will be four years and you will come to the Parliament for a few more times and I will always mention this story to you. I'd like to see you at your place if you were happy, and I'm happy, and I know you're gonna get away with it rhetorically, but I'd like you to be happy because I know we have the same interest. Here's so much from me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26906	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that of the green-left bloc, the respected representative Rada Boric will finally speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26907	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. .....with a decision on IGP, some have defended more strongly, some have advocated differently, so here at the end just a few questions we may not get answers to today So, a few questions that Mr. Minister may not need to answer today, but he stands before all of us in the Parliament. [[Gentlemen, please let's go, so a colleague can talk. Here you go.]] So, since we haven't taken advantage of the ZERP's capabilities to protect the Adriatic region more significantly from fishing, are we going to do it now, how are we going to do it, what are we going to do, what are we going to do to advocate an ecological maximum that is lower to protect the fish fund? We need to sort of deal with all the neighbors, i.e. with all the countries in the Adriatic about exiting from the exploitation of fossil fuels on the Adriatic, that is even our obligation. We have an island development strategy, but I am particularly interested in whether we will quickly bring in documents that will further protect the interests and island communities related to fishing on the islands. Now that we have the opportunity to build artificial islands, and we have failed to protect either existing islands or islanders, we unfortunately have not taken advantage of the island's solarisation possibilities, and now we are talking about infrastructure in IGP. So what's very important, this is a political act, this was important for each of us in a different way, is now a question of what will happen to implementation when we have a new national strategy and development of the island, and especially the ecological protection of the Adriatic? Shall we see what we can do with the ballast control? How are we going to balance the Adriatic now? We'll finally have control of other people's ships, will we really try to keep the Adriatic alive if we don't?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26908	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Foreign and European Minister Gordan Grlic Radman will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26909	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Madam MPs, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm glad Mr. Zekanovic noticed that I stayed until the end, of course, that's logical, it's probably part of my personality or perhaps the shame that Mr. Willy Matula said. What I am pleased to see is that I have proved my personality by my work, industriousness and studying in Switzerland, not acting because I have always been a man who makes things come true, who works, and others talk about me. So I leave your characteristics that are probably manifestations and perceptions of character or behavior to you and thank you for those affirmative words of work and discipline. I've never worked in a communist system, I've never been a member of a Communist party, I've never worked in a central committee, and I'm proud of that, but I'm letting others have been and I don't have any objections to that. I'd just like to get this little one going, too. And the same, Mrs. Crescent. Rada Boric, thank you also for your contribution. As a literature teacher, this is who you are, that you've also proven to be affirmative about it. You know, our society isn't used to such situations when you don't recognize anything else in some minister, and I'm used to watching other ministers look at it, Mr. Hajdukovic reacted to it, because it's 10 seconds that actually mean someone was interested in a fellow minister, and then it actually makes it easier to communicate better. Everything you do is in the interest of the state. So Mr. Lavrov wrote one, he was in a collection of songs, and one verse was good-looking for saying that we enjoy the job, the job we work in, so I think that's good, that's affirmative. In fact, at the end of the day, I can say that this debate was constructive, that it was open, maybe I've discovered a lot of that ignorance of these various situations or details of what ZERP is, which is IGP, but it seems to me that in the debate it's still crystallized and that it's clear to all of us that it's our same interest, that we're actually contributing to a higher degree of protection here. After the ZERP, so after we declared it, it was still current, we sought to achieve this higher level of protection, more effective protection of the Adriatic Sea through the declaration of that IGP. Of course, that step really makes sense if we do so together with, with another country in a whole way, to protect in all areas with Italy, the Republic of Italy with which tomorrow, with the minister that I will be with the day after tomorrow, and together with the Slovenian minister, I will sign a trilateral statement that will actually be the introduction to a later trilateral meeting, or our IGP declaration. When Mr. Zekanovic spoke here means about the distinction we go to look at it like this, the decision also stands, so the first step, although it is not really necessary in practice, you have this one that the Italian Republic with, with Greece has signed the Agreement on demaritation, demarcation, but did not necessarily declare the IGP. I think it's actually one graduation with us and actually one very good order. So the IGP includes, as it stands in the decision, the maritime space of the outer border of the territorial sea towards the high seas to its external border allowed by general international law. And the external borders of the IGP of the Republic of Croatia will be determined by international agreements on the demarcation of countries whose coasts lie between the interfaces and Italy and laterally compared to the Republic of Montenegro, which means that we are taking a step-by-step. So this is actually one logical order and then we can actually define through this demarcation treaty all of the aspects that we, which we have touched here, but I think it's important first to really declare IGP. What's actually just as important might be to once again say and emphasize this is the impact of the IGP on fisheries policy, i.e. the protection of fisheries resources. I see that this is a lot of this here we are very sensitive, which is logical, so we all communicate with both fishermen and it is also good that representatives and representatives communicate with the base in cooperation with the European Commission because we, however, are members of the EU and other countries, we, the Republic of Croatia, influence the creation and application of the common fisheries policy in the Adriatic Sea, and the creation of conditions for sustainable fisheries, and we have the right to control, therefore, the implementation of the rules of the common fisheries policy in the ZERP, and in cooperation and in other multilateral international agreements. This will continue, therefore, to protect and regulate the issue of fishing in the area of the sea under the ZERP. This will continue after the declaration and the IGP. As fishing in the ZERP takes place today exclusively in accordance with the common EU fisheries policy, EU fishing vessels have equal access to these waters and cannot be banned. So we cannot prohibit access, but we cannot charge, and the right to monitor and control the implementation of these rules is subject to all Croatian inspectors who can now, as EU inspectors, control all fishermen in ZERP, including fishermen from other Member States. The same rules will apply in the IGP of the Republic of Italy, as well as in the IGP of the Italian Republic. That's the question, I'm sorry that there's no Mr. Skora, he said, on Twitter he announced that Shime, Mr. Shime, asked if they could fish, etc., then I called an Antu in Privlaca in Zadar which is also a fisherman, so I have someone this fisherman, so he said he also knows where he can hunt and how he can hunt, so he welcomed just the IGP announcement, Ante from Privlaka to Zadar. It should be noted that neither in the Mediterranean nor in the Adriatic, there are quotas for fish, and fishing is arranged in the IGPs of the Member States as part of the European Sea, measures of spatial and time constraints brought by the European Commission on its own or on the proposal of the Member States, and there we can be those who propose, understand, wisely, wisely, including, but of course you must have, this is the Apple. You, too, have shown Mr. Zekanovic, set this fine example just as the apple cauldron has been declared an area of the ban on fishing. Since we have a weaker fleet than the Italians, this is very helpful to us, perhaps they would go to that part. But such an option is available to other areas of the Croatian and Italian IGP, and we have said about this northern Adriatic specific zone precisely for protection, for example. list. And now that we're talking about those fleets, then I'd say, Mrs. President. Boric said I think there was little perhaps insufficiently clear or false information, when we speak to the Albanian fleet and its influence on the Italian declaration of the IGP, I did inform the Albanian minister although it is not necessary because we are not neighbouring states, but they are with the Italians. It is therefore not important for us and its potential impact on the announcement of the IGP of the Italian Republic. We do not enter into the reasons of the Italian side about it, it is important for us that Italy chose to declare an IGP here with us. However, here was the data, so our Ministry of Agriculture has other data, so we make 65,000 tonnes of annual fish catch, while the Albanian fleet and catch are modest 6 to 7,000 tonnes. Of all that, we do it annually because of ZERP exactly 380 million kunas of the value of that pure catch, and of that is 15% of the ZERP, and the rest is the territorial sea. When we talk about the Albanian fleet and catch, I said 6 to 7,000 tons means 10 times less than Croatia, and then we have a little blue fish 3,065 tons, same 20 times less than us, and then you can imagine how much less Italians are. The number of swimmers 32 in Albanians, and we have 180, the number of brakes 180 in Albania, and we have 380 means twice as much as they have. So this is actually all that important data and indeed Mrs. Boric listen we don't need praise, I mean we didn't really come here, but we also don't like to be downplayed, there was talk about the success of Croatian diplomacy. The success of Croatian diplomacy is our honor and pride, but that is not how we prove ourselves. We understand this business responsibly, we know how to represent responsible Croatian views, national interests. And make sure that time doesn't work out for us, we're working a long day, and I'm very proud of the hours we have, the hours where we're committed to really work, we're using the moment, and we're happy when we see success. This success is not only the success of Croatian diplomacy but also of all of you. You all contribute equally here, by understanding it, by communicating with others, by passing on the importance of it. So there's something that can be criticized, but that's why there's got to be real reasons. It's a good criticism, it's not a good criticism, everyone likes to stick a hat pen, and here we'll share in fact we don't always need well we always try what you know is a bad attempt to socialize, and it's a good effort to individualize, but we're going to be open here, let's be generous. In fact, let this be a contribution to all of us in some way. We are a mirror of Croatian society, we represent our people, we work Croatian citizens in their interest and let it be a fundamental backbone, a fundamental direction. And Croatian diplomacy can represent the interests of the Croatian people, we are here to present and submit reports, you are here to question us, to seek, to demand, but also to ask you so that you have an understanding of our arguments that we present because I often see here for the third time I have to repeat one thing that I have said, and then repeat it in your questions. I was, say, preparing myself yesterday so that I would really be positive for you, and probably a lot of people were preparing to sharpen their criticisms, etc., I respect that, but the criticism should be how you should have the right arguments, and not diplomacy is, etc., adolescence, demeaning, and I don't really like it, and I'll always react to that because I don't think it's fair and it's not fair. But let's just say if you point fingers that didn't work out, okay, anyway, I'll say you're right. I think this was the key moment and let's not say now whether it was then and who was responsible, where we are, etc., we are all responsible. We follow the process, we in foreign affairs just daily follow these processes, they're not simple, they're complex, they're really complex. Croatia you know is a small country, but we don't have a bit of it in our head. We now that we are a member of the EU just having this strength and feeling that our freedom is our independence that we have been rid of the domination of one nation, that we have rid ourselves of the totalitarian system and that we are trying to solve all those remains in fact by the residences of that one totalitarian and communist system and to go into the European context that we belong to, that is our civilization space. And when you look at 30 years of what we've done and where our neighbors are then it's really heaven and earth and I think we need to turn around and see the achievements that we've achieved in that time and still standing before us, but that's why we all have to contribute to it together. And parliamentary diplomacy is important, not just diplomacy of the executive government. Parliamentary diplomacy, your committees in all areas are very, very important and that is why we can all contribute to this together. Thank you for your discussions, I am glad that you will even raise two hands for this belt although it is unfortunately only one, but this one, here it is, and I am glad that we have finished, somehow, going towards the end, thank you for your good wishes for my departure and my colleagues and my colleagues in Trieste on Saturday, we will return with the same hope, good, clear news, signed by a trilateral statement and then we will keep you informed and then we can also celebrate Christmas and New Year, wish all of us a better 2021, the success of Croatian diplomacy, the success of Croatian government, no matter what the opposition may be, etc., but it is democracy, therefore, we want this Croatian government to lead Croatia's country, Croatian people, Croatian citizens in social stability, economic growth and for the sake of our citizens, your families, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26910	Thank you very much. [[I'm glad you changed your mind.]] We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26911	Your Honor, I must confess that I am here, satisfied with what you said, but I will still repeat a few key things. So there won't be a résumé on my part. So nothing fundamental changes with the announcement of the economic belt, the regime remains the same as it was with ZERP, but we are opening up opportunities. First of all, to protect the fish fund in the economic belt. I encourage you here once again to do it as soon as possible and to keep in mind that this Parliament here, regardless, was even about the far left or the far right or the centre, that everyone would support the sovereign decisions of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, all of them. If Andrej Plenkovic had brought in and proposed my amendment as an amendment to the government tomorrow, I'm sure everyone would have accepted it. You think again about that amendment and just maybe for the end. I know we're small statesmen, but even though we're small, we can have our own me, and often we don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26912	Thank you. The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26913	Thank you, Mr. Zekanovic. You know, for every good thing there's time, so, I mean, let's just go ahead and do what we can and what's feasible, we should definitely consider all your suggestions, but I support you actually working and working in the direction of improvement and better protection, that's the same thing, that's legitimate, that's good, we all know that, we just need to see what the possibilities are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26914	The next replica is the respected representative Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26915	Your Honor, I'd like to ask you a specific question. Namely, platforms are now treated as being in the international sea, platforms are treated as being in the international sea, and it is by declaring the IGP that they will become an integral part of the territorial organisation of the Republic of Croatia because they are at the bottom. I wonder if, after the IGP declaration, the goods will continue to be exported to these platforms, as has been the practice so far since the export procedure is released from the payment of VAT to those companies located in the international sea. In this particular case, we will have a Croatian company on the Croatian IGP means, in the composition of the entire territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, whether or not the platforms will enter the VAT system. That's what I'm curious about, specifically.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26916	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26917	We'll see about that. Clearly, we are, in fact, giving this political framework here, and what practice it has been so far, it will probably remain. But we're actually giving one of these, what we're doing here, so the political framework for the IGP announcement, and surely all the benefits that are coming from, therefore, within that, that will be useful for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26918	Thank you very much. I would like to conclude a debate on this subject, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26919	Now we're going to go to the amendment statement. First, a statement on the amendments to the Proposal for a Decision declaring the exclusive economic belt of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted the amendments and became an integral part of the proposal for a decision. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendment of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives' Club. Is that going to be a respected secretary of state or a minister? State Secretary Andreja Metelko-Zgombic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26920	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the proposed amendment. The proposed amendment proposes full protection of IGP in order to fully prohibit fishing by claiming that the entire IGP is an extremely important fish standoff. There are such places in the Adriatic, there are important fish nests, but the government has other ways to protect it, that is, protect these individual parts, not the entire ZERP now, and future IGP. Such a proposal is contrary to European rules and, unfortunately, it could not even be implemented, it could not be effective. However, the government will propose and ensure the protection of certain parts to the IGP exercise of its powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26921	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, a respected representative of Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26922	Dear Secretary of State, it's a key thing we may not have put into account, but here, I'm going to say it now. Yes, in that part of the Adriatic, and it is about our IGP, fishermen exclusively Italians or almost exclusively Italians. So, we don't lose anything by protecting that space, we lose nothing, because that's where our swimmers, our carts, are not leaving. They'd just get it, so if you have any decisions that will make the benefits of our country and our people, then make it. On the other hand, the minister also realized that we would soon have to protect a large part of the Adriatic anyway. The most ideal thing would be to protect that great belt in which we do not fish but the Italian fishermen. So let's protect something we don't exploit anyway. As for deforestation, I worked in the nature protection system and consulted a lot of people from that system, people from fishing, and they all confirmed this thesis to me, not my thesis as a professor of geography, but a man who worked in the system of nature protection, who today, both yesterday and the day before yesterday, spoke to people who were very professional in that field, please consult them too. Of course, I will ask for a vote on this amendment because I believe that the only adoption of this amendment can satisfy that interest that we actually had at the IGP announcement.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26923	Thank you very much. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns has proposed that HS adopt the following conclusion: HS obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a request to the European Commission for full protection of the IGP of any type of fishing and fishing for other marine organisms within 90 days of the entry into force of this Decision. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of this proposal's conclusion. State Secretary Andreja Metelko Zgombic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26924	Thank you very much. For the same reasons as I have pointed out about the amendment's conclusion, the government also rejects the amendment's request for a decision. As I said in my previous explanation, the government will have the possibility of providing protection in certain areas. It has done so far, it is a good example of the Apple Roll and it is intended to continue to do so in the North Adriatic and in other areas of our IGP, but we cannot seek the automatic protection of the entire area as you suggest. As I said, such a single request would be inconclusive and would ultimately be completely ineffective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26925	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, a respected representative of Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26926	Respected, there is an institute of protection, full protection of the sea and the minister spoke of it earlier, only the question is whether there is political will. So this is feasible and there is a procedure. So, the Government of the Republic of Croatia asks the European Commission for full protection and we have a complete suspension of fishing and exploitation of other marine organisms, and we have solved the problem. Make it easy on yourself and let's make this conclusion because then you'll have legitimacy and an excuse in the end when you talk to big partners, when you're talking to Italy that's 15 times our size. I know it's not easy for you outsiders to talk to big players. So it means generally from any ministry to talk to big players like Italy. But I'm sure even when that big player like that is. Italy feels that one desire to defend sovereignty, one firm attitude, and then they'll give in. Let's do it this time, for the first time in Croatian history, make it crazy and look for what belongs to us, not wait as we have now waited for Italy to move first. So, to us, sooner or later, it will happen to us sooner or later that Italy will seek the protection of the parts of its IGP, and then we will step by step seek the protection of our share. Here I call you once again if you do not respond to the amendment of the Croatian Sovereigns make your amendment, modify it a little bit, modify that conclusion, bring it to you, we will make it easier for you because you will have the task of protecting it because this is to protect it. Of course, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-12-17-1.u26927	Thank you very much.
