ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u3712	We move on to a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives, the first Mr. Marin Miletic is in front of the MOST. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u3713	An hour is an hour of respect for everyone, dear Vice President Radin, Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The state shows a maternal attitude towards sport, towards young athletes. Investment in sport, Croatia at the bottom of the EU. The share of separation for sport and recreation from the budgets in Lepo is a miserable 0.2%, which makes us convincing in the last place in the EU. We are at the bottom, and when investment is observed per capita, while we only allocate 13.3 euros from the budget, Hungary, for example, stands out 105 euros- The EU averages about 100 euros and presides richer countries such as Luxembourg 492 euros, Sweden 256 euros and Finland 206 euros. In addition to Croatia, Bulgaria's infamous start is well below the average of 16 euros, Slovakia 23 euros and Romania 25 euros. Unfortunately, this fact, we are not only assessed as one of the most corrupt countries across the EU, but we are also seeing how we see sports at the very bottom of the EU. A deeply corrupt state, a deep state, a country that invests least money in sport, is not a country that expands the atmosphere desirable for life. But we must fight and never give up on our country. [[Intruder Radin: Excuse me, Mr Miletic.]] Let's go back to sports. It is also important to get an answer to this question, in which exact way will tax-discharge sport and encourage entrepreneurs to invest in sport, whether it is amateur or professional? Trainers with the Central State Sport Office's incentives as part of the support measures for clubs due to the crisis's crown in the first wave of the epidemic, included a professional staff that was in the working relationship with sports associations. It was a fire measure to help the dispute, which for every praise, but we must not forget that the rules simply did not apply to everything equally. For example. dance sports associations that pay all the country's contributions to their staff coaches and, despite the fact that in the first wave of the pandemic among the first, they were hit by the prevention epidemiological measures of the National Civil Protection Staff, they were forgotten by all the encouraging measures, the question to which the aid for sport is being prepared in the event of the second arrival of the pandemic wave, the preservation of jobs, in the event of a re-barring of sports clubs. I don't know if you're co-workers and colleagues, getting to know each other, are banned from using school-sports halls. After summer, a new shock and a blow to youth sports, especially for gym sports. The latest instructions or recommendations for schools literally destroy sports and sports clubs. For example. If we are talking about the city of Rijeka, but also about some other local self-governments where sports clubs are simply forbidden to use school sports halls knowing that in these extra-school periods the training of sports schools for children is conducted, this is a direct attack on the rights of children to practice sports and sports clubs to work. The consequences of such decisions for sport and many sports clubs can be catastrophic, to be even clearer plastic. The Rijeka sports halls for training students have been closed, and the same gyms have been opened. I hope this changes urgently. A concrete reason for closing the hall is a recommendation from the ministry that has transferred the ball to local self-government. In some cities, for example in Zagreb, local self-government has made a guide to open halls only for sports clubs except recreation. Trainers and athletes in Rijeka have made, asked what is happening, there is no concrete answer, although these are very important topics for thousands of children, for athletes, for coaches. It's obvious that Covid-19 has made our headquarters very confused in the recommendations. Let's remember the last situations where the headquarters declared the source of the gym's infection, so in a few days, they didn't, so he let it. I'm trying not to condemn anyone, not finding headquarters because we can see that the World Health Organization is also confused, they first sharply criticized the Swedish model of behavior, now on behalf of the same World Health Organization in the official act of Dr. David Nabarro commends Sweden, noting that lockdown quotes it “a blunt instrument that harms all, especially poor and small entrepreneurs. ” We're fortunate to have an announcement from Mr. Capak who said we're being followed by a significant number or a fall of the infected. This way, I ask that urgent decisions be made and constructive recommendations be made to return to school sports halls for young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u3714	Thank you. Taking a stand is an important moment every day because it is the only time that MPs can talk about a subject that is considered to be current and important. And there was a mix-up, and you defocused at one point, Mr. Miletic, so I apologized on behalf of you, and that's why I gave him 10 seconds more. Sir, I'm sorry, ma'am. Vesna Vucilović, who will present the position of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u3731	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. I'm going to refer briefly to the premium model related to renewable energy sources. Sustainable development, renewable energy sources, green policies, are all the syntagms we've been hearing for years and that have been telling us about a better greener world in which we should live in a few years. The energy of the sun, wind, biomass, water resources in these green policies defines Croatia as a country that has huge potential in that segment. At first glance, we have a comparative advantage and a course of energy independence. Croatia is currently importing energy, and investing in renewable energy sources would make it self-sufficient in this key segment for the economy and for the population of the Republic of Croatia. In May of this year, just before the parliamentary elections, the government adopted a Regulation on quotas to boost the production of electricity from renewable sources, which is encouraged among other major solar power plants. In addition to the fact that the solar elements in Croatia only come together and the components come from China, it remains unclear why large solar power plants are potentiated instead of what the EU is doing and potentials? In fact, 70% of the solar plants in the EU are on roofs of residential buildings for the purposes of electricity production precisely the inhabitants of these residential buildings. The EU Renewable Energy Directive also recognises the concept of municipal energy in the sense that JLS produces and sells electricity from renewable sources. Despite EU practice, Croatia knows for who knows which way the transition premium model is tailored according to the needs of private investors who even themselves declare that the premium at the existing price of solar panels is not necessary. Namely, every investor in renewable energy sources has a guaranteed placement of its product in 100% amount. So who wouldn't invest in a product for which they have a secure sale and in the total amount they produce. Everyone who has ever worked in sales knows how difficult and demanding it is to sell a product regardless of whether it is pasture, mineral water, furniture or cars. JLS corresponds to the construction of mega solar power plants because according to the regulation they receive one lip per kilowatt hour, at first glance the ridiculous amount, but the lip and ordinary municipality such as Promina in Dalmatian Zagora, which has 1136 inhabitants can achieve cca. 2.5 to 3 million kuna a year. At first glance, great and who would disagree with this concept. Like what? One grandmother from the Komletins, for example. which pays all of this through compensation for renewable energy sources as well as all of Croatia's inhabitants. So I ask, why would all of us fill the budget of a municipality in Dalmatinska Zagora with all the charges we pay? The premium model may have made sense a few years ago, but today, at the existing prices, it is completely unnecessary and investors themselves consider it enough to have secured the placement, and declare that they would invest in solar power plants and without premiums. The state must stimulate the installation of solar panels on family houses and residential buildings to make our residents energy independent, not to take from all of us and fill the pockets of private investors. We have already seen a private investor's guess on the case of the Krš-Padene wind power plants, as well as the Gaterush 2, the court epilogue is still waiting. Billion kuna of taxpayers because a billion kunas are collected each year for the selected investors, and this can only be prevented by reshaping, and would even dare to say by abolishing the premium model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u3732	Thank you, too. Now in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, Mr. Marijan Pavliček will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u3747	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, here I welcome you all. We had a long-awaited tender for the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency to co-finance the energy reconstruction of family homes on Monday. Unfortunately, a good idea that has not been implemented for years and that really results because this money is injected directly into Croatian craftsmanship or in the construction sector because people are primarily applying for outer envelopes or facades and PVC carpentry. On the other hand, the applicants' accounts themselves are significantly lower than during the summer, that they spend less electricity on air conditioning, however, as I said, one good idea went in the wrong direction entirely because of the fund's disastrous decision that the competition itself works online by using the fastest finger method. We received a great dissatisfaction from our fellow citizens, the fund says that everything worked right, that they had over 7,000 applications, that the public call was temporarily closed at 10 o'clock and 45 minutes, it was open at 9 o'clock. But what happened? It happened that the system had fallen, the system had fallen that people who had been logged in a few minutes before the opening of the public call had been unable to register, were kicked out of the fund's site, took more than half an hour, some and 45 minutes to re-apply, the results were that some were 4,500 or 600th on the list or even lower, but worse still, several thousand citizens could not apply to the fund's website at all. And I think that definitely both the fund manager and the resolution minister should cancel this competition because if we don't have the same starting position and here it's definitely that the citizens didn't have the same starting position, the competition can't be valid. It is possible for this Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund to justify that everything went well, that it really went through the fastest finger method, I believe that the intentions were good and I don't believe that anyone here had any evil ideas and that it would be convenient, however, it has proved that simply this system and this kind of competition simply doesn't work. We got the situation primarily with older citizens who paid several thousand certificationists to apply, they don't have access to the Internet themselves, these were certified for them, these were 20, 30 applications at the same time, which means 20, 30 open accounts, 20, 30 computers, and of course there was this situation that we have today. So the result of this competition is the huge dissatisfaction of our fellow citizens, the suspicions that it was being set up for individuals which I am convinced is not so, but the system itself is not well done, and I really think it is necessary that this competition should be annulled, that new criteria and rules of the game be established in which way and how to form a ranking list of applicants reported, whether this will go according to the social category, by the number of household members, by the gross surface of the facility itself, but definitely one fairer way because this has given us nothing, even a number of fellow citizens and threatening lawsuits towards the fund itself, and I don't think this will end well for both the fund and the self-resord ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u3748	Thank you, too. In front of the SDP club, it will now be Mrs. SDP's position. Andrea Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u3760	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed chairman. In the last 24 hours, as many as 369 new cases of COVID-19 infection have been reported, and this data requires that we repeatedly warn of the current poor epidemiological situation in Croatia and the extent of the procedures carried out under the management stick of the national headquarters and government. I will remind you, as of February 25, 2020, when the first case of infection in Croatia was reported, 11 094 people infected with a new coronary virus of which 194 died. We are witnessing that tents are being raised due to the explosion of the number of hospitalized people in Split, the start of the school year has been asked in several schools or cities throughout Croatia due to the breakthrough of the virus in schools and kindergartens. But the ruling data about the number of tourists is rising. The thesis on health protection should always be first and Mr Plenkovic turned to the thesis of tourism in the first place. Do we wonder if human health and their lives are valued in the number of arrivals and nights? It is clear that our people too must work and live from their incomes, lock down no longer comes to mind but the unprepared state and national tourism headquarters, to open borders and implement a series of uncoordinated measures now comes toll. The epidemic must calm down in the next few weeks because in the fall we will enter a critical phase. Mr. Krunoslav Capak, director of HZJZ, said yesterday "our models show that there will be a fall of the newly ill at the end of the ninth or early tenth month, the curve will fall significantly down," that Mr. Capak said this in March or April, that statement would have passed without any questions, without any questions, of course that at first a large number of people supported the work of the Stoger, there were no big questions, we all listened to measures against Covida-19 because we were all convinced that experts in the Stoger were not in the service of politics, and even if we did not fall, then we asked certain questions, and questioned what he said. So we're actually at the top of Europe by the number of infected, so we're talking about our models, and then we're wondering why these models didn't predict this kind of growth of the infected, if they were, why they didn't take measures to stop it or slow it down. Epidemiologists, therefore, even some members of the government’s scientific council criticise such statements by Mr. Capak. Now, the National Headquarters transfers a number of decisions and responsibilities to local headquarters, school principals, kindergartens and so on, why did the National Headquarters not, with local headquarters, adjust individual decisions to the existing situation on the ground?, the National Headquarters must continue to have full responsibility in taking measures, and local headquarters must be operatives. Where there was a favourable epidemiological situation, it was necessary to provide a tailored measure to the local situation, and where the worse situation was to immediately go with stricter measures, for example, to enable more movements of closed home users where there were no infections, here is an example I was in my County, in Međimurje initiated a meeting with a local headquarters where, with the blessing of the profession, of course, we adapted all the existing epidemiological measures to our favourable situation when possible, of course, we continue to support all epidemiological measures and invite citizens to adhere to them. Furthermore, we have witnessed bickering on the Beros-Zadravec line and, in fact, the harsh involvement of HDZ policy in all the pores of society, including health care. If there were less politicisation of the profession, the national headquarters would have greater credibility, more recommendations from experts or doctors would be listened to, the public would not be confused by double criteria for adherence to measures and would certainly be less infected in the Republic of Croatia. We ask that all our decisions mention the Staff explain before the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia and be deprived of any politicization. It is necessary to legalise the work of the Staff. It is crucial that in the next two days, so not for the next key two weeks, the Staff will add up, take responsibility and take a stand, to stop such false predictions, numbers, threats to the citizens of the surrounding countries, but we must start developing a strategy and activities to protect the health of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u3761	Thank you. Thank you, too. Now Mrs Marijana Puljak will be the position of the IP, SMARTNO-G and GLAS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u3778	I thank the chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to talk here today about an important topic, which is the beginning of the school year next week. Education and science are the foundations of every modern society, without informed citizens and citizens who will critically think without impartial facts and free search for the truth Croatia and the whole world cannot be a place where our children can live, grow and prosper. Although we often hear from rulings how important education and science are to them, how much they actually believe in it, they show us daily in practice, and especially now during the pandemic. In recent days, we've been expecting a rescue solution for the start of the school year, a scenario of how they like to say the Ministry of Education, but the solution didn't come. What do you expect from a working group of 23 members of whom only one member is the one who works in the class, and that group has met literally twice? It's just a script for a horror movie. Instead of a solution to the surface, long-term problems, non-investment in schools and kindergartens were resurfaced, from narrow spaces, bad buildings to the consequence of a long-term ban on the employment of technical staff, and now, for example, the cleaning of a building of 4,000 squares is done by three maids, and maids and cleaners will now have to clean corridors, halls, probably 25 times a day, and this is simply impossible to organise in practice. Schools without hot water, no parquets, no school halls, in three shifts, some still without internet, a traffic-free school damaged in an earthquake. Let me just say... schools working shifts in Croatia 822 schools and 34% of schools work in two shifts, 14 schools in three shifts, not counting earthquake schools, so the number of students attending such schools is 278.580 or 60% of students. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are no teachers, no IT teachers, and we're going to get students to meet at colleges and literally ask them to come work at an education salary school. Following the other countries in the European Union that are also facing problems, organisations, with uncertainty of the whole situation, this decision on the organisation of teaching during the epidemic was awaited, but unlike the regulated countries that have worked out different scenarios, there were prepared instructions on time, with us, at the last minute, the decision to make schools has arrived. The instructions were written, so I guess that ends the ministry's responsibility, the one whose chair no one wants. Lastly, there are misunderstandings about sanctions supposed to be carried out if children are not wearing masks, who are going to enforce those sanctions, on what grounds? It has been forgotten about vocational schools where students go to outside workshops and practices, e.g. Medical schools. When one of the teachers goes to sick leave who's gonna change him in this situation when the teacher's missing? Since this year, information is a possible electoral subject in class class class and it is another 300 IT teachers that are not available. So there's a lot of questions about the logistics of infrastructure, and what about the quality of education? The ministry was concerned about whether a lot of the health ministry's work had forgotten about the quality of education. How do you make up for what was missed last school year for strikes and crowns? How do you take care of gifted disciples, students with difficulty? A million questions, there's no answer because the preparation didn't start on time. Ministers change, but mocking education remains the same. We expect progress and a bright future, but we only show children how state exams are done. Everything seems to rest on the idea. People in education will manage because they've actually been doing it for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u3786	Finally, Mr. Josip Boric will be the position, the position of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u3787	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues are free to speak, so I want to say something since here we have been listening for two days to rested parliamentary representatives who want to in some way through their discussions to show the situation in the Republic of Croatia, a situation that is close to some kind of chaos in which you do not know who is doing or who needs to work and who is responsible for what. I think we have been through all of the electoral cycle that has clearly shown what the Croatian people think about all of us politicians, about the parties they represent and that citizens of 5.7 clearly said what they want in their future, they chose safe Croatia as something that should enable them to live better and better in this space. So these criticism reviews can be understood, but when they move in the direction of becoming false or that they aim at quite another activity that should happen maybe somewhere outside of these spaces then we will react and try to correct them. We heard here today that the Swedish model is something that should be turned around by the Republic of Croatia. This same model that in the last 6 months means there somewhere from 15.2. when it started in our space, just before and in these countries of Scandinavia, 85,000 people who have been infected and 5.800 dead in a country that is twice as large, let's say by the number of inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia, which would then have been in Croatia in these 6 months 20, 40,000 infected and 2,500 dead. Comparing this with our results, it is clear that the measures taken by the Croatian Government and the Croatian Government led by HDZ and Mr Andrej Plenkovic clearly won the result. We decided on the tourist season and the tourist season was ma'am, you might think it was something that shouldn't have happened, but we want to achieve at least 50% of last year's results in this year and we're very close to ensuring maybe not, or to achieve 50 million overnights by the end of the year. If that came back in history we had so many nights somewhere in 2007 or 2006 and it was record seasons in the Republic of Croatia. At that time, we were also satisfied that it was good, no matter what we were living in somewhat more normal conditions than those called the new normal. So I don't want to believe in the SDP that the tourist season shouldn't have been because of the people living in the Adriatic because of the people who took this tourist season out on their backs and provided themselves and their families with the possibility of functioning in the period until the next tourist season. Not everyone lives on the continent, not everyone lives in the City of Zagreb. They have their own obligations and they want to settle them neatly. I think it's a completely missed topic. As for the energy restoration of the facade, the facade and the call that was called and I want to tell the.../incomprehensible/... truth. So finally after 2015, when the SDP contracted 50 million energy facades, practically blocked the fund, for 3 years we couldn't call a single call for any activity, let alone for the energy restoration of houses. So only in the last 2 years, 2019, 2018 and now in this 2020 have we come out of minus, we have recovered all loans and established normal relations in the fund so that we now make over 20 public calls to all social groups or as needed in terms of utility for vehicle renewal, municipal equipment, etc., in order to lead the waste management system to the level we expect. So that the truth that everyone has already lost their right doesn't stand because they've processed none so far I mean applying because the time ahead, in front of us will show how fine the application was, how not completely and what's going to happen in that number that's left above it. That fund, like the ministry, has a lot of opportunities. There are no competitions, and we have to say the same thing where everyone gets it. There are competitions for utility companies, there are public calls for local self-government, but they don't always get what they want and what they're ready for, and we have to understand that sometimes. And as for school and trying to create a story about chaos, chaos in Croatian schools because the beginning of the school year is not standing, gentlemen of the SDP read a statement from your mayor from one of the representatives of the clans that you now need to choose or not choose in the elections that says that all schools in that county are ready, so coordinate and afterwards talk about chaos.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u3788	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4783	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We're going back to work. - Proposal for the Foreign Law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 12.; The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 12. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation? With us is Honorable Zarko Katic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior. But before that, there's a colleague named Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4784	Thank you very much. On behalf of the MOST Club, I am looking for a 10 minute break on this very important topic for national security and internal policy, and of course for demographics. Because in the Republic of Croatia there will be no more quotas for work permits for foreigners while at the same time we have a problem with demographics. Croatia has less than 4 million people, and this is a fact and an indication that Croatia needs to do something urgently to get people back to the Republic of Croatia because the fact that entrepreneurs are burdened with having money, spending where we don't need to, just to stop the counties and give it to Croatian entrepreneurs so that Croatian workers can have bigger salaries, perhaps the effects would be much better. I must send a message at this time that Croatia is at risk. Croatian demographic dying, 2017 was 9,000 only permit for foreigners, 2018. 32,000, 2019. 73,000, for about 108 grand this year, is a license for foreigners. While at the same time in the Republic of Croatia, our prime minister boasts about last year's economic growth, at the time 6% of GDP is from our evicted people, young people, which says we have disastrous policies, in terms of state formation, unnecessary counties, in terms of agriculture, economy, economy. In this way, we are threatened by an absolute demographic breakdown, in this way threatening that there will soon be no more Croats in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4785	The apartment will be approved. This is Comrade Skoro reporting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4786	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It is important at the outset for the Croatian public to say that the law on the parent board yesterday did not get the consent, it did not get the required majority. We are politicians who, in our short term, are making moves with far-reaching consequences. This law, which we received 2, 3 days ago on its 140 pages and with some 260 articles, regulates one of the most important issues of the Croatian moment. At an extraordinary session in the coronary crisis, with the results of the economy as they already are, with a catastrophic demographic picture mentioned by my colleague Bulj, demographic Tado Juric said that his research has indicated that there are 3.8 million inhabitants in Croatia, so at such a time we bring one of these important ones, I would say, a crucial law that will travel Croatia's demographic future in the coming years. If we vote such a law as it is proposed, which actually provides for the abolition of quotas for foreigners in Croatia, I am convinced that all the greats, from Starčević, Radic, and beyond, whose paintings would be in the Croatian Parliament, will bow their heads. And we'll be able to bow our heads, too, because a law like this within such short notice, without a quality debate, without quality preparation, really shouldn't be brought and let's not come back to where we shouldn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4787	You're looking for a break, I presume? A fellow Sacic, too?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4788	That's right, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club because the new circumstance has occurred, as you know, Mr. President, yesterday at the home body, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, and this law with that parent body has no green light to discuss, so please, these are relatively rare situations, perhaps once in the history of this House, that we have to consult whether at all, how to act, whether to withdraw this law as a missing, insufficient from the agenda, or if you're going to put it in the debate so that we can point to all the terrible failures. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4789	A colleague of Sacic, just for the sake of the Croatian public. The fact that some bill did not receive support on the parent board does not mean that it cannot go into debate because, according to that logic, no opposition bill would come to the debate in the Croatian Parliament. So, it has absolutely nothing to do with it, it's just a certain kind of recommendation made by the board, and it's a plenary session that ultimately decides whether or not the law will accept it. Is anyone else picking up? Here you go, Mr. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4790	Here, and on behalf of the Party Club with a name and last name, Smart and Glass are also looking for a five-minute break. I would like to point out that we are aware of the moment Croatia is also in the Croatian economy, above all. According to Eurostat, almost 10% of the working population has left Croatia by now. As colleagues have said, demographic problems are clear. Here at the State Statistics Office last year, 40,000 people at the same time had a record number of immigrants of 37,000 of them, only 9,000 Croatian citizens. So, there's nothing since the return of our emigrants, people going through the belly after bread, looking for better conditions. The data itself discusses the conditions of life, the conditions of business in Croatia. So, we are witnessing a lack of quality labour in our market, we cannot complicate additional procedures for our employers, if we complicate them, if we set additional conditions and complicate actually the conditions for the permits of foreign citizens simply our economy will collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4791	You're looking for a break too? Okay. Is anyone else picking up? If not, we'll continue work at 9:00 and 45 minutes. It's 9:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE 9:45 A.M.]] We have been standing by the applicant's call to give us an additional explanation of the bill. With us is Honorable Zarko Katic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4793	I thank you, Mr. President of HS. Your Honors, Madam Representatives, gentlemen of the House of Representatives. I'd like to introduce you to the main features as well as the newspapers relating to the proposal for a law on foreigners in front of you. Before that, I would like to point out that the current Foreigning Law applies from 1 January 2012 and applies exclusively to third-country nationals, while to citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families from 18 July last year, the Law on the Citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families applies and applies. The Act on Foreigners has been amended four times above all in order to comply with the acquis, such as the regulation of residence and work for seasonal workers, the transfer of workers within society, for the purpose of research, study, training, volunteering, exchange of students and education projects, and the last amendment in this year concerned the period of validity of the issued biometric residence permits during the COVID-19 disease epidemic. The relevant law, as well as the proposal for a law that lies before you, provides for provisions governing the entry of third-country nationals into the Republic of Croatia, issuing visas for those citizens who are required to enter our country, issuing residence permits and work, regulating their stay for the purpose of family integration, secondary education and study, research, approval of high-skilled third-country nationals, the approval of a long-term residence and permanent stay and the regulation of third-country nationals who have an approved long-term residence in another Member State of the European Economic Area. The draft law is in line with a total of 21 Directives, recommendation, decision and resolution of the European acquis, as is the applicable law, and ensures the implementation of eight EU regulations. Therefore, it is a large number of provisions in the draft laws that have been harmonised with the acquis of the EU or are necessary in order to implement the regulation. This bill did not make any significant harmonisations but minor corrections, primarily a regulation relating to the eu blue map. Compared to the current Foreign Law, it is most important to point out that it brings a new model of employment for third-country nationals. So, the main newspaper is that under this law, when the government of the Republic of Croatia enters into force, it will no longer decide on the establishment of an annual quota of foreign employment permits. This issue obviously raises significant controversy and issues, but I must say that such a decision has been made after deep reflection, but following a proposal from the social partners, Croatian employers and Croatian trade unions, it is in line with all other authorities of the state administration who are taking part in this process to a significant extent. It is true that the number of foreign workers in the Republic of Croatia has increased significantly over the past few years. I'll give you some figures on the permits issued to stay and work from the annual quota. In 2016 2,428 licences were issued, in '17. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 30.783, in 2019. 70,637 and in the first eight months of 2020 42,884 working permits from the quota, I mention from this quota brought by the Government every year. The total number of licences is even higher because they are issued beyond the quota for certain occupations or on certain other legal grounds, but this may be another 5 to 10% increase compared to these figures that I have presented. Traditionally, citizens of neighbouring countries come to our country most often, so the most working permits were issued to BiH citizens in this year 17.960, then Serbia 8.250, Kosovo 5.380, Northern Macedonia 3,096, Albania 1,882 working permits from the quota, and an increasing number of workers outside the European continent and the number of third-country workers reach now and a thousand, including India, Nepal, Philippines and some other countries. There is a lot of fluctuation in the workforce, workers come to work in Croatia, but after a while they find another employer, then the permit is cancelled and the procedure for issuing a new permit is launched. But let me explain in a few words how this new model should function. Employers will first contact HZZ to find the workforce, which will carry out a labour market test within 15 days. So, they will try to find labour in the Croatian labour market and we think it is one of the biggest, greatest benefits of this model that the employer will be obliged to look for Croatian workers on the Croatian labour market. In the event that there is no domestic worker or in the area in which it is sought or obtained by internal migration of workers to the Republic of Croatia, the employer will also test the labour market, so the decision is worth 180 days, so the employer will not have to submit a new application for the labour market within the next 6 months if it is shown that he needs builders and carpenters, and it is not then available for the next 6 months to apply for a residence permit and work but for a specific foreign worker. The request is therefore submitted to the MUP, which will, under its official duty, request an opinion on the employment of a specific foreigner with a specific Croatian employer. Such a request for the authorisation of the MUP including this, this request for an opinion from the HZZ and other bodies participating in the procedure, and there is also the Tax Administration and Records from the Ministry of Justice, courts, security, Security Intelligence, etc., will have to be renewed within 15 working days. Following the above procedure, therefore, the entire duration of the authorisation of stay and work, including the implementation of the labour market test, will take a maximum of 30 days. The proposed law also provides for a period of 15 days for the authorisation of seasonal work up to 90 days and for deficiting professions, for example. builders, carpenters, chefs, waiters, etc. From the following papers introduced by this bill, I stress the introduction of a long-term visa institute for entry into the Republic of Croatia by a third-country national who, for example, has already been granted a residence and work permit. So far, we have had a lot of problems that, on the basis of a C-type visa, some countries have not allowed entry into fact from these destinations to Croatian workers who had issued a visa that should have come to the Republic of Croatia because this visa was considered more like a tourist visa or a stay visa for private reasons. As regards the general regulation of the status of third-country nationals, I stress the regulation of more favourable regulation of temporary and permanent residence for members of the Croatian people with foreign citizenship or without citizenship. For example, they will not be obliged to prove the means of maintenance and health insurance. Similarly, under more favourable conditions and family members of the Croatian citizen can acquire a permanent stay as well as foreigners minors who have an approved temporary stay for 3 years, and one of his parents has a permanent stay or a long stay in the Republic of Croatia. As a novelty in the area of migration, especially considering and attracting the arrival and stay of persons whose intention is to stay in the Republic of Croatia for a period of time, while working at the same time for foreign employers for the first time is introduced into Croatian migration legislation and the approval of temporary stay, etc. The digital nomads are regulated in terms as well as in Article 57 of the Law which lies before you. It is crucial that this person does his job remotely through the means of digital technology, that he is self-employed in his own company, crafts or is an independent profession so-called. freelancer or to work for a foreign employer, so that it primarily does not make its income on the Croatian labour market and will have to prove it, and that the government will regulate it with a regulation as well as for all other foreigners the amount of means of maintenance that will certainly be multiple, significantly higher than the funds needed to support, to maintain with other categories of persons, so those who come to work or connect with the Croatian citizen as members of the family or to study or to other, or other permitted purposes of staying in the Republic. Croatia would be one of the first countries to offer such a stay to that category of foreign citizens, so I repeat here it is about third-country nationals concerned with the law, not about EU citizens. We believe that, that there is a very great interest and that these persons will stay in the Republic for longer time, so they will certainly benefit from certain benefits for the Croatian economy primarily tourism for more than 3 months. In doing so, the Republic of Croatia will certainly benefit from this as a desirable destination for staying for a long period of time. At the end of the paper of this law is also regulation, the launch of a administrative dispute against all solutions of police administrations or police stations, which, for example, refuse to issue a residence permit and work or a general permit of stay and work, is a alignment with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and that is something that we must be all together that we are carrying out the law prepared by the MUP and other bodies, up to of course to the administrative courts that conduct administrative proceedings, in the administrative dispute. Because of the new employment model I was talking about here, it is proposed that the law enter into force on 1 January 2021. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the law has been discussed and has been respected in the majority of the opinion of employers' associations, union associations, a meeting was held with the public defender, with universities, Croatian universities to regulate the stay of scientific researchers' students. By the time the final bill is prepared, we will certainly talk to all those who still have certain comments and suggestions on this law. The desire is for the Government of the Republic of Croatia and for this law to be a good framework for attracting labour in the Republic of Croatia which is lacking in the Croatian labour market, but this time clearly documented by decisions by competent authorities such as the HZZ, but thus also created a framework for solving some other problems that were initially referred to here as demographic problems. Therefore, it will need cooperation from all components, all bodies of the government, above all, governments and ministries, and to determine what, which are also the professions, as well as categories of people to whom we should, who want to strive to come to the Republic of Croatia to build better and more prosperous Croatia with us. Here we certainly do not forget, through the amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, members of the Croatian people, Croatian emigrants and their descendants, they are certainly the first to come, work and live in the Republic of Croatia. Here, we are prepared to listen to all the remarks and to include them in the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4794	I thank the Secretary of State. You can stay here, you'll still respond immediately to the replicas that we have 11. First up, dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4795	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, you were on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security yesterday, and this law did not receive a passing assessment where it is evident that this law is not ready and these things are very important for national security, and unfortunately we have, as we know 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia empty, labour is unfortunately missing in the Republic of Croatia while our young people went out to do other jobs, so that this tribal would do more comprehensively, the tribal would be more careful, there would be no tribality to counter the speed under cover as the Marrakech Agreement was dragged and signed without debate by parliament while the Bundestag in Germany debated the Marrakekish Agreement, so there are a number of doubts here that this type of liberalisation is foreign power imports without any criteria to be impacted on the demographic image of the Republic. Once again, if this one continues politics will not be Croats in Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4796	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4797	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, the law certainly isn't prepared in a hurry, it's thoroughly prepared, I explained, so I won't repeat it again. He passed the first reading he was during last summoning HS, but due to business provisions he was again, let's say, restored to first reading and will begin again a full, regular procedure. Yesterday, in more than two hours of debate on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, there were very interesting issues and suggestions, and I think a very high-quality and respectful debate has been held, and it will also be used to prepare the final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4798	Comrade Stier, there you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4799	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. I'd look back on the article. 57th, which introduces the new institute of digital nomads, you explained it. As far as I know, Estonia is the only one in the EU, or the first to introduce it, and Croatia would now be a second country. The experiences in Estonia, as far as I'm concerned, are very positive, several even tens of thousands of people have joined or used the institute. My question would be whether you have any assessment of how this could result in the Republic of Croatia, Croatia is also a safe country, an attractive country for many foreigners who, who are working digitally this for some companies outside the Republic of Croatia, but who might be able to choose Croatia as their temporary stay and, of course, spend their resources here in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4800	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4801	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, this institute is, therefore, as you have said in our legislation, but also in European terms, it is rare. As far as we are also aware, it is only introduced in Estonia for now, but there was a need, there were numerous questions as to whether it could be possible to stay in that category of persons. These people are often very influential in this digital community, so they make significant revenues, but their work is often monitored and they can be, so the benefits of them can be indirectly very large. Therefore, to improve the general image of our country as a safe and good destination, and of course concrete consumption of these persons will contribute to a specific specific destination in the Republic of Croatia, and we think that it will also be checked in a safe sense, that it will pose no risk to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4802	Now it's my friend Zurovec's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4803	Here you go, dear secretary. We have to admit that there's a lot of problems behind this law that may be too little time now. But I have to admit that there are a few things that I find a little unusual, which I can say from my own experience, so I'd like you to take a look at it. Namely, you stated that 15 days is a time limit for seasonal work permits, and 90 days for agricultural occupations, so for builders, carpenters and the rest. Now, from my example, I can also tell you examples of my work, yes, some projects sometimes take you even shorter than the time that, for example, is needed for maximum licensing. Well, maybe those deadlines should be taken care of too. Also, a lot of employers complain that you're practically waiting very long on the MUP because you're really short on labor. You could have also pointed out, I don't think anyone in these rooms will be against having more cops, especially operatives. As far as the security problems are concerned, you could say the same thing because I ran into migrants on the mountaineering trip, so I think we should do the same. take care of it a little bit more. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Excuses, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4804	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4805	In any case, you saw how much, I presented data on increasing the number of work permits issued and generally issued residence permits in the Republic of Croatia, and we did not, despite this large number, are not always satisfied with the speed of resolution, especially in some burdened police administrations and stations. This is primarily Zagreb and some sea stations that have a significant, significant number of licence applications as a result of the season. In that sense, we have introduced some technological innovations and better integration and we will try to make these permits, you are right that sometimes it takes too long and the employer can't wait that long. As far as migrants are concerned, the provisions of this law have not changed significantly compared to the previous law when it comes to illegal stay, but the Croatian police remain...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4806	Thank you. Say it, say it to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4807	It continues to guard the border and worry about the safety of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4808	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4809	Well, here I am, in an individual debate and on behalf of the club, going to make a series of objections to this bill, but here I would ask a question. So, about the projections, which I asked you both yesterday and a few days ago, means that you expect the labour price to reflect, this bill reflects on the labour price. So it is quite obvious that we are introducing the liberalisation of labour imports here, that, quite a legitimate question, whether a Croatian employer who, with his work done, is not able to secure the wages from which to live, and then we are introducing the salary of workers from another country who wants to do the job, for this salary in Croatia, is not lacking workers, but the labour price is 3 times lower than in Germany and Austria. Instead of these mythological tales about sovereignism and the ban on legal migration, we should perhaps put emphasis on how we will force employers to raise the labour price because this is how you made it possible for employers [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to keep a low labour price. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4810	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4811	The government believes that this model will by no means ruin the labour price and, moreover, hold even more to the Croatian workers. So, the employer, I repeat, is obliged to look for employees from the Croatian labour market, only if he can't get it, can he seek a foreign citizen. In doing so, most employers say that foreign citizens cost them more in total, and Croatian citizens are often more desirable and better workers. So it's not an interest to import labour without having to. But the Croatian labour market has shown that unfortunately we do not have enough domestic workers to take on a particular interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4812	Now it's time for a respected colleague, Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4813	Thank you. So here you said, the quotas for foreign workers are being abolished. In fact, the procedure is being transferred to the Croatian Employment Service, which must investigate whether domestic labour forces exist on the national market. If not, then you can actually hire a foreign worker. What exactly does that mean, here, especially this, this part that says, the migration of unemployed persons in the country, therefore, is the Croatian Institute obliged to look for employees throughout, in the territory of Croatia, so if someone finds someone from Djurjevac who is not aware, interested in working in Split, then the employer in Split cannot hire a foreign worker, so to explain a little bit what it means to explore the domestic labour market. And the second question is student visas. Are you, here now we don't see them in the law that way specifically, Did you predict them for the next reading? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4814	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4815	Thank you very much. Your Honor, ma'am. MPs. The employer is seeking, addressing the HZZ area service to the company headquarters or place of business. If there is no in this area, HZZ is.../incomprehensible/... authorised, I cannot explain it to you in detail, it is the procedure of this Institute, but it is authorised to search on the entire Croatian labour market and if someone reports from Đurđevac, it will absolutely come and it will work. But there are conditions where a worker is obliged or not obliged to take a job in, well, anyway, that depends on it. Therefore, everything is designed to hire a Croatian worker, if such a worker has anywhere in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4816	Now it's my friend Bencic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4817	Based on my colleague Katarina Peović's question that you have not answered to the end, I will ask you very specifically. When an employer offers a salary of 5,000 kuna for example for a builder and does not get a builder in the Republic of Croatia and no one answers for that labour price, right, does he have the right to hire a person from another country who will agree to that labour price? That's what we're talking about. Is it in any way a matter of protecting the price of the work of our workers and the ability to increase their labour price protected by this law? We believe that it is not and will also allow labour prices to either remain the same or continue to fall. The second question is also very important. So in law you have a discriminatory provision that defines members of the rope family. Life partners were not placed in the family’s ropes. Life partners are mentioned in other parts of the law, but not as members of the rope family, and on this basis they will not be able to exercise the right to family reunion. What we're asking you is, are you aware that this is contrary to the Constitutional Court's opinion? and the European Court of Human Rights? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4818	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4819	As far as the labour price is concerned, it is regulated by other regulations in the Republic of Croatia not by this law and of course by the state of the labour market. In any case, the MUP shall verify, when issuing the residence and work permits, whether the employer pays regularly and respects all other rules of the Republic of Croatia concerning the Labour Act, the Labour Protection Act, Tax and Other Regulations. And if he doesn't pay his salary, that kind of employer can't get a work permit for a stranger. As far as life partners are concerned, this is one of the purposes prescribed by this merger law, for the approval of temporary stay, so life partners are not in any way discriminated against to be granted a residence permit in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4820	Now they will speak, dear colleague Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4821	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Assembly, Your Honor, Secretary of State, I've reported that we've raised a few suspicions that come from the opposition's side of the bill. The first thing, this law has been working really long, has been working while I was still the minister of work, congratulations to the MUP, Minister Bozinovic and to you State Secretary that you carried it out. Two readings will pass, and it basically solves the discrepancies and facilitates employers, but with the protection of domestic labour force, there is a labour force from third countries. It solves the component of labour market inconsistency with, the need for the labour market with what is available from the workforce. It is one component, the other component are measures of active employment policy, the third component is education especially in professional professions. 100,000 people, or permits, have shown that the price of work has not dropped.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4822	Here's your answer. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4823	I agree, thank you for this extra. The price of work, the desire of this government is for labour prices and overall productivity to rise, but it is regulated by other regulations. The aim of this law is to create a clear immigration framework and enable the Croatian employer to gain foreign labour when domestic labour is not available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4824	I'd like a colleague of mine to pray for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4825	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, I will repeat my thesis and belief that the stability that is often highlighted as some achievement in Croatia actually means economic stagnation. One clear consequence is that a large number of our people have left Croatia, this EU membership has not slowed down but has accelerated it in some way. My personal example is certainly an exception, I've been here a long time as a returnee from America, but I know many who tried to come back and give up again and leave. My question is, do you agree with the thesis that now we've actually been brought into a desperate position where we have to lift quotas because of the lack of labour due to the failures that lasted for years, so what we're supposed to do is not, and now we're actually in a very difficult situation, do you agree? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4826	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4827	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I disagree most of the time with your findings. The quota, quota decision and quota system were a good time, however, while fewer figures were at stake. Since we've had more labour shortages on our labour market, I don't think this system has been fair enough, it hasn't been efficient enough. This way, the employer will get exactly what he needs. While we had the quota system, we still have it this year by the end of the year, it was often prescribed, for some occupations too few work permits were prescribed, and for some too many, and in the end it never agreed, regardless of all the efforts of all the resistors to give an assessment of the data because over the year certain changes and turbulence took place on the labour market. This system will be much more accurate, more efficient, fairer and better for Croatian workers and employers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4828	Comrade Škoro, please choose your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4829	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Katić and I spoke on the board yesterday, so we agreed in some way that this is an immigration law that does not really protect Croatian workers, as counterpart Bartulica said we did not create jobs and we are not reducing quotas because the Croatian economy has grown, so it has created some new jobs but because our people have gone somewhere else and we have a shortage of labour force and unfortunately do not protect this law by Croatian workers. However, what I am interested in when it comes to digital nomads, and I asked you yesterday, I will repeat that, so this property censorship, our people are long ago digital nomads in some other countries from these third countries will come to us. Here they will achieve certain benefits for the Croatian economy, accommodation, spending on personal needs, but what is certainly important is that we need to set up a censorship, so some amount that they must earn in order to even be with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4830	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4831	Dear Mr. MP, as for the lack of labour force for the Croatian labour market, it does not date from yesterday, for many years, even while the Republic of Croatia was part of the former state, one part of the workforce satisfied the arrival of workers from these former republics, we all know that we have some years. This took place more or less after the Homeland War and in some branches such as construction, and part of shipbuilding while it was stronger or catering and tourism depended on people who were not from the Republic of Croatia. As far as digital nomads are concerned, it is certainly important to properly assess the means of abstention, and those persons should have them, otherwise the decision on means of abstention is made by the government, the government prescribes by its regulation and will do so within the legal period after the law enters into force, and it will certainly be, that property censorship will be Certainly higher than, for other categories of foreigners. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4832	Comrade Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4833	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, you said it would attract so-called. digital nomads help develop tourism. At the same time, however, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing nothing to prevent the departure of our IT professionals who are very professional in third countries and the EU. Have you in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in cooperation with other resolution ministries, considered encouraging measures to keep our IT officers in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4834	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4835	The government of the Republic of Croatia is trying to strengthen certain significant sectors, so to speak, but I am not a competent person to tell you exactly that here. This activity, of course, can be done and, and far away, so it is very much sought and it is difficult to avoid that Croatian people work for other companies, it would be better to work from home then, so that they live there and spend. But this category we want to attract is certainly desirable not only because of its revenues, due to low risk, but because of those indirect benefits that I mentioned which are more composed of some promotion of the Republic of Croatia as a safe and desirable destination.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4836	And the last replica of my colleague Fabianic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4837	I welcome the adoption of this new law because its meaning is extremely, extremely good. However, here we know that in one chapter of that law we have something that will certainly affect the labour market. As it affects the centre of work and the security of jobs as well as in previous replicas, it is my impression that there is still no social dialogue that is necessary here because the unions are consulted on one first reading that was in the previous session, which differs from the text of this first reading. The fact is that the unions specifically requested this meeting in May or the tripartite or economic social council, unfortunately it did not occur, I understand the fact that the pandemic, I understand and the fact that it was an annual committee, but I also believe that there is another Until the second reading we must, we must establish social dialogue. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4838	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4839	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, you're certainly right and we've already talked a lot to the social partners and I promise we'll talk very soon, most likely next week one more time, so maybe if there is a time and, more than once, until we refer the final bill to another reading. We also care about the crucial position of the social partners, and we would like to remove any doubt that anyone is comfortable or that something is wrong, without our unions, we would not want that law passed without their consent. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4840	We've come to an end with replicas, you're free Secretary of State for now, and I'll call the committee's reporters if they want to take the floor. Would you like some? Yes, here's a colleague, Vukas, president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4841	Mr. President-in-Office, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. At the first session of 2 September 2020, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed the proposal of the Foreign Law, first reading, submitted to the President by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 27 August 2020. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 69. The Rules of Procedure of the HS Committee considered the proposed legislative proposal as a parent working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the current Foreign Act lays down the conditions of workers, entry, movement, stay of the work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. It further stated that the draft law applies only to third-country nationals but not to citizens of the European Economic Area and members of their families whose status is now regulated by the laws on nationals of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families, which has been in force since 18 July 2020. The draft law in the Croatian legislation adopts 21 acts of the EU, the Directive, Council decisions, Council framework decisions and council recommendations, and ensures the implementation of 8 acts of the EU regulations. The proposer pointed out that the bill primarily harmonises provisions relating to the work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, their stay for research, study, training, volunteering, exchange of students or education projects, and the conduct of seasonal work. The most significant difference in this legislative solution concerns leaving the model of determining the annual quotas for the recruitment of foreigners. The proposed law stipulates that residence and work permits can be issued if a third-country national fulfils the general conditions for the approval of temporary stay and if the HZZ delivers a positive opinion to the MUP for employment after carrying out the labour market test. The above opinion of the HZZ should not be attached if a residence permit and work permit for a seasonal worker in agriculture, forestry, hospitality and tourism is requested for up to 90 days during the calendar year and for the extension of the licence. There are a number of deficits whose situation must be monitored, and it is therefore prescribed that the Governing Council of the HZZ will decide on the interests for which the employer is not obliged to request the implementation of the labour market within eight days of the date of entry into force of this Foreign Act. The draft law introduces a new institute for long-term visas that can be issued to third-country nationals who require a short-term visa to enter, with the approval of a temporary stay for the purposes of art. 57th on a proposal for this law, or a permit issued for stay and work in the Republic of Croatia. A long-term visa shall be issued to a third-country national for one or more entrys, and its validity shall be no later than six months. Furthermore, the bill better regulates the acquisition of permanent stay for a member of the family, the life partner of a Croatian citizen and the favourable acquisition of permanent stay for members of the Croatian people. In both cases, the deadline for acquiring a permanent stay was reduced from five to four years in the first case and three years in the second case. It is also prescribed that a favourable possibility be given to a permanent stay for a minor child who, until the day of submission of a permanent stay, has an uninterrupted three-year-old temporary stay for the purpose of family integration. If one of the parents has an approved permanent stay or a long stay, the applicable law requires five years. Digital nomads have proved to be the legislative paper on which an exhaustive debate has been conducted. They are defined as third country nationals who are employed or do business through telecommunications technology for a company or their own company which is not registered in the Republic of Croatia and do business or provide services to employers in the area of the Republic of Croatia. This category allows persons working from home or outside of work to stay in the Republic of Croatia longer than 90 days allowed and is expected to be persons with valid power of pay who will have a positive impact on the domestic economy by their consumption. Sublaw will establish an asset censorship that these persons must satisfy, and it is certainly expected that the census will be greater than that prescribed for other categories of third-country nationals. The debate welcomed the introduction of a category of digital nomads which could be expected to stimulate state revenues by their consumption, especially given the growing number of people who use technological progress benefits and perform jobs from home or outside the workplace. The applicant's representative and the referred question will be asked to determine whether digital nomads have sufficient means to live and which amount of property censorship is foreseen by a sublegal act. It is also asked which third countries will allow digital nomads to stay in the Republic of Croatia, given that the citizens of the European Economic Area who have greater freedom of entry, movement and employment are excluded. It has been stressed that digital nomads other than IT experts can be considered writers, journalists, designers and people working in marketing. In response, the Digital nomads Property Census noted that the same level had not yet been established, but they discussed the gross amount of 15 to 20,000 kuna and that the differentiation of third countries or digital nomads coming from them could only be considered on the basis of the criteria of whether they needed more legal steps or less to enter the Republic of Croatia. The debate pointed out on several occasions that the Foreign Law is a complex legislative act for several social and economic levels and that it plays an important role in the management of demographic movements in the Republic of Croatia, and therefore made an objection to the short deadline left by the Government to the HS with discussion and decision on first reading. Emphasising the importance of the debate on this law in the debate, it was noted that the demographic picture in the Republic of Croatia is bad and that according to one scientific paper, a prominent demographic in the Republic of Croatia lives 3.8 million inhabitants and that the share of third-country nationals is as much as 2% 70.800. Furthermore, individual members of the Committee pointed out that the Law on Foreigners is essentially an immigration law to which the state should regulate its immigration policy and that it requires a clear definition of which categories of third-country nationals of the Republic of Croatia have an interest in granting entry, movement, stay and work. In the debate, some committee members stressed that the liberalisation introduced by the Foreign Law in relation to the imports of workers or seasonal workers had an adverse effect on the standard of domestic worker, as the labour price dropped, while foreign employment quotas are incomparably high and give the foreign worker an advantage over domestic labour.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4842	My colleague Vukas, please, this is not the custom of reading such a long report and usually it is made shorter in a few minutes, only the main highlights because this is disproportionate to the whole debate and I am asking you to bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4843	All right, we'll cut it short. What was important was to emphasise that it was requested by the applicant's representative to indicate the objection and opinion of the Advocate General, as well as the final request by the proposer's representative to declare whether the Ministry would declare the completion of the Covid-19 disease epidemic caused by the Sars virus by the law, given that no provision was introduced in the proposal for a law on the extension of the validity of the residence permit whose time limit expires during the course of the epidemic, as well as the extension of the deadline for taking action in the administrative procedure which the parties are obliged to take during that period in accordance with the provisions of the applicable law. After the debate was held in the vote on the proposal of the conclusion that the HS was proposed to adopt a 5-vote bill for, 2 votes against and 3 abstentions, the conclusion was not reached since it did not receive the required majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4844	Thank you. I'm asking you next time, we didn't prescribe this to the Rules of Procedure, so there's no time to present the committee's rapporteur, but so far it's been a practice to do this briefly with the most basic information, so I'm asking you to keep an eye on it. I don't have a business opportunity to interrupt anyone, but here I am praying for a simple common sense and fair play. Would anyone else like to take a word from the committee reporter? If not then we move on to the debate, the first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the two are MPs, the first fellow Bulj, and after him fellow Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4845	Thank you very much, here's to telling the citizens at first that the committee is not the proposer of this law, is the whole act you've read to the Honorable President of the Committee on Internal Policy, the proposer is the Government of the Republic, just so there's no confusion, the confusion of those watching, who are following this. In this law, which is very important for national security and internal policy, I would say a few important things to me, things that essentially detect, they are here now, you simply admitted by this law that in Croatia it is 20 years. led by a catastrophic policy. This is visible from data on working permits for foreigners, as I said in 2017. 9000 were working permits, in 2018. 32000, last year 73, and this year it is planned to be 108, which means 3.g. We bounced 15 times on work permits, while at the same time the Croatian government boasts that last year GDP grew in Croatia, which is true, but because of the emigrated young people from our country, so 6% of GDP is foreign. So the highest quality people in shipbuilding, we've driven the building out by politics because we didn't have the courage and the strength to make an example of one important thing. Here, let's say the abolished counties that don't serve anything, which only control the field for the sake of elections to give those decentralised funds to loyal commissioners who must be obedient and thus simply happened a demographic breakdown and so we have a lot less than 4 million, a lot, meaning somewhere they speak research about 3 million of our Croats in Croatia, which means that we are simply increasing Croatia's only emigration. This is the triba policy turn, the total twist. The worker here can't live on his salary, and the entrepreneur doesn't have enough money to pay the worker. And what's going on? Let's open up work permits, let's give it to the employment office. The employment office will decide who can, who can't. The employment office will decide how many people the tribune is. And what I pay the employment office, it's retraining, it pays for another market. If we have a triba of caterers, drivers, bakers, I don't know who all of them are, then we have a triba of requalification, and not yesterday on the board, we have a good conclusion, nurse, for whom, for Germany, Austria, we pay our money to leave so that others can come uncontrollably, but all of this is in line with politics, nothing of this is strange. The Marrakech Treaty accepted Croatia without discussion, our neighbouring countries did not accept it, they did not even give us the possibility of the HDZ, the SDSS government in the past term to discuss in the assembly. Angela Merkel is on the side of the sign of Plenkovic, but the Bundestag is arguing. We're not allowed to do that. We are forbidden as representatives of the people in the past, in the past, to discuss the problem. So it's just that in this way everything works out as Angela Merkel says, the Marrakech compact has a lot of influence on this, believe me, this way and this way, at this speed and this way to open the borders to foreign workers without any control, without having to know the language, they wrote something, let alone history as in other countries that they know history. Here yesterday is mentioned that they know, let's say that Croatia's modern creation, the Declaration of the Homeland War, is absolutely unknown. And our people will continue to emigrate, our entrepreneurs will have to ask for cheaper labour because they are forced because they do not have labour force and will simply be Croatia without Croats. We must change the policies under urgency if we simply continue in this way we will be larger undertakers than all the occupiers who were for the Croatian people in independent free Croatia, which is covered with blood. It is not this that we have some occupiers, but that the subject policies have led to this at this time that Croatia is left without Croats, which we must oppose, now will continue fellow Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4846	Please, just a second, colleague Troscott, to disinfect the pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4847	Dear President of the Assembly, distinguished MPs and MPs and respected citizens who watch us through the cameras. Unfortunately, this Foreign Law endangers our citizens for the reason that our citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not focused at all, although the law is called the Foreign Law, however our citizens of the Republic of Croatia have not been taken into focus at all. Right at the beginning of the public resolution, this is not about the element of xenophobia and no one has anything against foreigners, but if we discuss from the perspective of new sovereignty, every modern and sovereign state actually moves from its citizens. This is about jeopardizing those small and brave people who are still in the Republic of Croatia, who are working, who are simply trying, paying their taxes, paying our salary here in the Croatian Parliament, and with this new law that we are actually voting this week, we are actually ordering that we will bring down the prices of the work of these people, the local population, while the price of the state apparatus will remain the same or will increase. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, the legislators of this law, you told the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to do it yourself once you lost your job for the sake of foreigners. And why are we saying that? We have not heard anywhere that there has been an analysis of how unemployed it is in Croatia, reported at the Croatian Employment Service, and, let's say, it is parallel to social assistance and it works parallelly in the gray economy. We don't even have that information for reasons why these people are endangering honest people who want to work fair and fair in paying taxes in the Republic of Croatia. So, before this bill ever went, it was necessary to lay down social conditions that were not laid down. And what we offer as a solution is for all the people on the Stock Exchange to offer a job, and they receive social assistance, unless they accept that help, simply relieve them and make the state dissipate in that way. We didn't get an analysis as readers of that law. Furthermore, what fellow Bulj touched, and it is very important, we do not see that requalification strategy. You said that you prepared the law in detail, we don't see where the deficiting professions are, and how did you try to solve this problem before you went into proposing a law like this? 3. Has anyone made a market demand strategy where we really would then strategically follow the demand of the market and thus direct our young and adequately pay them at the end of the day. Which led to a bill like this. Under no. 1., a highly taxed work or income tax, which sends nothing but information that it is better to live better than renting, apartmentation, rather than own work. So, a lady who works in Konzum pays more taxes than a person who rents their apartments or apartments on the coast. 2, high taxation of consumption, which is the biggest one in Europe, and we missed the opportunity to increase personal consumption, which is in fact the most important segment of every market economy in the world. 3. the overrated kuna that destroyed so many entrepreneurs, the dairy that destroyed so many exporters and allowed us to import food that we can produce five times better and export to the same food market in the EU because, let's say one, it was best seen during Covid, where a spar worked during Covid, and our salary where our godmothers sell did not work, which was actually a message and this law. Four, you touched the diaspora. It's a fake diaspora. For the reason that there are so many people, I know because I lived in Latin America who want to return to the Republic of Croatia, but what they have communicated to me takes 3 years to get the documents, to become citizens and to return to Croatia to work. Well, strangers get it with this bill overnight. But that's no wonder. For the reason that, we remember only during the Coronation of the Crisis, where one immigrant is daily, several hundred, without any documents walking around the Carlovac County, on the Gorski Kotar, on Rijeka, exiting Slovenia, and we who are local residents during Covid, even with passes we had to cross from the municipality to the cities and vice versa. So if that's how the locals are treated, uh, with passes and that immigrants have more rights, this law will send this local population again a message that a stranger is worth more than The local population. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4848	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Vidovic, here you go. Yeah, no, well, both of them won't work because there's no replicas at club exposure, and there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, so we're moving on. It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the Party with the name and last name, Smart and GLAS, the esteemed colleague Marijana Puljak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4849	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is part of the presentation of my predecessors, I agree that Croatia today is a poor country, as we have repeatedly pointed out in discussions and exhibitions, a poor country at the bottom of Europe, at the bottom of all the ranking lists in Europe. What kind of Croatia do we want? We want it rich, developed, modern, and we want it open that people will move into, not move in. Today's situation in which, here, and Eurostat, we have data that almost 10% of our working-age population has moved out of Croatia, and has moved out because of the continued policy over the past 30 years, of all previous governments, precisely because of these 556 cities and municipalities, 20 counties, 11 thousand career politicians, because of high taxes, to our entrepreneurs who simply cannot breathe, cannot create new jobs, and I would also say because of the overall atmosphere in society, our young, especially young experts, emigrate and build some other countries' economies. On the contrary, we want Croatia, which will be moved by young experts, some of those who have left, who will return, who will help their well-known and experience build a Croatian economy so that all those who today, those economies, may other economies build up, come back and do it here in Croatia. I'll comment on three things here. Some positive, emphasized in this Foreign Law. So I won't scare our citizens with this law. One of the positive things is, here's what's mentioned here in some replicas before, they're digital nomads. In some of my previous presentations, I talked about this initiative for the introduction of so-called special permits that Croatia could open the door to digital nomads. Estonia was the first country in Europe to deal with this, here, now Croatia. So these are experts, mostly IT experts, experts from various creative industries that travel around the world, work at a distance and here, we allow them to come to Croatia and Croatia, I would say live and work remotely. It is certainly whether, the good news, and even better news would be to go one step further and out of here, the Foreign Law itself reduces the burdens and taxes and actually attracts them to pay taxes with us, too, for Croatian freelances, Croatian entrepreneurs, it would certainly be good news to cut taxes and taxes because, today, it is obvious that in Croatia it is not good to do business, that it is better to do business abroad, and in Croatia it is good to live whether, for good food and good nature. As for other developments in this law, the procedure for hiring third-country nationals has been facilitated. As far as we're concerned, it's positive that the government will no longer prescribe annual quotas for foreign employment, but here's the procedure now presented here, there's room for it to be further simplified. Because, as today is the case, if the employer wants to hire a foreign worker, so first the Croatian Employment Service must determine that there are no available unemployed persons in the Republic of Croatia and are not really clear deadlines in which the Institute should do so. It's about a 15-day period, but it's also about some other activities that aren't clearly defined, so can it happen that this employment office actually further complicates this procedure and extends the whole process? As I said, 10% of the working-age population moved out last year, according to data from the State Statistics Institute, there were 40,000 people, but we also had a record number of immigrants, 37 thousand of them, however, among them 37 thousand, only somewhere less than 10 thousand Croatian citizens. So, our people are moving out, but they're not coming back because obviously today in Croatia, they're not the conditions that they would come back. The interest of employers, the interest of the Croatian economy is certainly to hire the best possible person for the jobs offered. So we lack highly qualified forces in some deficit areas, and we must not further complicate these employment procedures. It can happen. It's absurd for us to have our people working in Ireland back as digital nomads, isn't it? So they return here, continue to work.../incomprehensible/... or far away in Ireland, and live and enjoy here in Croatia. One more thing here, I'm not answered to the question in my replica. This is a question of student visas, this year we have 13,000 unfulfilled places in various studies at Croatian universities, and only 3,000 foreigners at all our universities. Croatia needs talents that will fill this hole in education, but also a hole in the labour market. Soon, in one year, we will have as many as 80 English programs, English studies. Through this student visa, you can solve all of those ravines that sometimes last a few months, even up to six months. So, student stay, the amount of guarantee for return insurance, student work, regulation correction, laying down Croatian language, so all those, all those administrations that students need to fill out if they want to study with us. It's also important to skip some of the obstacles of the guy that he personally needs to appear at the consulate so you have cases, here's a particular case, I talked to some of the dean and the principal of the university, when, he doesn't know, the consulate in Kenya wants a student and gets the right to study at our studio, and her consulate is located, I don't know, in South Africa, and he has to go there personally to confirm all the documentation. So, we should take the opportunity to digitize and connect all services, consular offices, police stations, tax administrations, so that, when we get a visa, we get an automatic OIB, so we don't have to go to these universities and participate in this, but to actually take advantage of it and digitize it. When they finish their studies, if they have a job offered, why not offer them a permanent or long-term stay, thus keeping those highly qualified experts in our country and actually using here, and their education and experience gained here in Croatia to contribute to the development of the Croatian economy. Here, thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4850	Thank you. He will now speak for his esteemed colleague, Zeljko Sacic, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club. Here, just a second. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4851	... the text of one draft or proposal of the Foreign Law which is absolutely incompatible with the constitutional legal order of the Republic of Croatia at first sight. [[Specially enabled.]] It is nomotechnically constructed and it is contradictory in itself, and also by reading certain articles it is incomprehensible, it is an incomprehensible failure that was made during its assembly and in fact possible in itself to speak and certain inconclusiveness of the promoter when he delivered us this text. I'll explain it, these are terribly difficult accusations, but unfortunately, the arguments follow me, so in these few minutes, we're going to point out the most significant thing. First of all, when the proposer suggests a dead cold that no additional funding is needed for its implementation, it is absolutely incorrect, because it is absolutely incorrect because this law, the bill of law, as it is conceived, opens up an extremely large number of rights, so-called migrant rights. Newly established migrant rights under the Marrakek compact that cost a tremendous amount of money to every country. And that's the legislator, that's what the proposer should have warned that we would be extremely expensive to pay for his proposals if we adopted him. For example, we have here the opening of certain rights specifically in Article 48, the approval of entry under specific circumstances. This article regulates your question that it means our, our state authorities and the police suspend the Schengen border code of this area, visa and any other communication, but based on what? In fact, on the basis of one, one of these judgments where it is enough for our ministry to adopt this solution, as they state humanitarian reasons, reasons for the interest of Croatia or international obligations, and in the same fact, the article in paragraph 4 says that they do not need to talk to the person who makes it possible. Well, it's an incredible failure, it's an unprecedented one of the contradictions that I don't believe so far has ever been recorded anywhere in some kind of serious nomotechnical processing of certain processes. Then Article 57 I have regulated family mergers, it's full of one flat-rate reviews, it introduces categories from the Istanbul Convention, there are certain rules liberalising, what can be combined, formal partner, non-formal partner, life, marriage, extra-marriage and 23 other categories of partners, but nowhere does our proposal say who will check it out, which is also how we'll check it, it's all going to be put on some sort of a judgment like this, and it's not supposed to feel like a person of a state official, a police officer on the state border or a consular representation, it's also some principle provision that it can't be done, that the abuse of that institute is not allowed, and we don't have any instruments that would actually carry out that check or ban it in another effective way that it's a dead letter on paper. Also, we have an Article 58 request for the issuance and approval of a temporary stay means a person who wants to join the family, and this can also be a life-long, non-life partner, but the essence of the story is that in that same article it does not allow, but ensures that the right to work, secure accommodation, professional training, education, social this social, social care system, so these are also significant means, and here we have heard that this is not costing anything. Dearly beloved, we have here Article 68 clearly defines that marriage is for the benefit of people who would abuse the Institute of Marriage or make marriage useful only to obtain a temporary permanent stay, or possibly citizenship to prohibit it, but we have no instrument for who or how to verify it. We have one of the principles of this provision of Article 5 that security checks when it comes to national security are done by the SOA State Security Service or whoever, however, for such checks of the everyday life, life, life, functioning we do not have any effective instrument to disable and to prove the abuse of this institute. We also have a right here means there is no development of concepts that, let's say, explain what a danger to the public order is, what a danger to national security, what a danger to public health is, we can only in principle interpret it, but just with your significant concepts there are certain rights that we can interpret to every civil servant in our own way, there is no unique notion of a legal one that would commit because if someone was denied their stay in the Republic because it poses a danger to the public order, then we need to specify what the dangers are, what they mean specifically. Or if he's dangerous for reasons of national security, then that should certainly be specified. Then we have Article 79 that regulates temporary stay for humanitarian reasons and that's where the first victim of human trafficking is mentioned. It is, it is one nonset so far no, unusually, we have not found this anywhere else in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia except in the Marrakesh compact where all citizens or where our country of the Republic of Croatia are suggested to have to decriminalise criminal and criminal provisions for all illegal migrants who have been found or this in, at the time of illegal entry, entering the Republic of Croatia because they must be given the chance to defend and protect themselves. This means the principle category of the Marrakech compact without any special finishing incorporated into the art. 79th which is incomprehensible. So, we now derivate the law on foreigners by derivating criminal law, derogating the law of violations, deregating many other legislations from both victims and participants in illegal smuggling of people who have contributed to their own illegal conduct, we make these provisions of this law a sacrifice and, in fact, we have to provide that sacrifice, guaranteeing it the right to secure accommodation, work, education for this work, during that time when there is and even more than that respected representatives and MPs to identify that victim of human trafficking, it is not enough for the Ministry to use its records and the usual methods of identifying identity than the law obliges it to cooperate, be careful now, with civil society organisations to identify those victims. It's unprecedented so far, it's, it's a scandal that hasn't been seen in this in general in the legal order so far of the Republic of Croatia that over the MUP and security services or alpari a participant to do certain official actions would be an organization of civil society or even to, even say that they have to give their opinion whether they're the victim of smuggling, specifically if we find 23 of this man in the van of smugglers police each of them must perform and they're not involved in smuggling but rather they're victims in this, according to this law. All in all, the time is running out, and we will not accept this law and I plead that you reject it. Is he deeply violating the constitutional legal order of the Republic of Croatia. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4852	Thank you very much. It is now in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, Mr Davorko Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4853	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. Here let me draw attention to this law on several aspects is it really a subject that is extremely intriguing, very complex and opens up a whole series of issues that this bill opens, touches edgely, but actually cannot, cannot be solved. The first fact that it would be worth going into general analysis and considering what is offered by this law is the fact that in 2013, since Croatia's entry into the EU, the working contingent of the population of Croatia has been reduced by half a million, it is a drama, 211 000 people are less natural, so the ageing of the population in Croatia and around 300,000 people have left by migration, emigration we lost in the working age, in the working contingent. Last night, I was looking at some data, '56, so 64 years ago. When I was born, we were born 88,000, 2013. when we joined the EU, when my oldest grandchildren were born, there were 36,000 of them. So 50,000 less babies of the boomer generation are retired, and this process is going to last another 6-7 years, hence the accelerated rapid ageing of the population and the slow and ever slower entry into the work contingent, that's the state of things. We can hang out here, talk, lamentate whatever we want, but that's a fact. Now if we have a loss of half a million people for one reason or another it is clear that the main key key element of development, the key resource for the country's development, is being questioned. The question is, who in this country is going to work? Who's going to secure and alimony, I don't know, social funds, pension funds, health funds, who's going to pay the culture, who's going to pay the police if we don't have people who can work? True, we still have a large maneuvering space because Croatia is another country from below in Europe at the rate of population activity with 70% activity, 60% of employment, we still have a large space, you want 500 000 people with disabilities from which only 20,000 are working, you want from my peers, so those from 60 to 65 who are 2/3 retired, and we should work if they can, so until young people enter the world of work very late. These are demographic problems that are simply aggressively, so to speak, referring to finding a solution to the situation where we are as a country. What we need to come to know, this isn't about any passing state or any problem that's going to happen now is a problem, so it's going to happen in 2-3 years. solve, no, this is about the process and the years standing before us and which will greatly limit us in development. Point. That's the problem. And now I'm asking a question to all of us, to our public, to our colleagues who, like this, so easily say, come into the story from some ideological position. If that's the case, and I assure you, by dealing with this problem for years, that there are no intelligent, demographic policies, family policies, that tomorrow we start to implement it, that we kick 100 billion kunas in every year that can solve this problem, it can't. For 100 years, the French have been practicing innovative demographic measures, and they produce some sort of result, but the state in which they are in demographic terms Croatia is indecisible by any kind of an intrinsic policy and I come to what I want to regain. Without the import of foreign workers, without foreigners we are gone, there is no point. And if we are not better aware of this, we should stop the debate that has prevented Croatia from bringing what normal European countries have to do with a normal migration policy, which for ten years, 15 years has insisted on people in Croatia who know what it is. The quotas we mentioned here are talking about so that these employers who ask to reach foreign workers don't do it out of obstetrics. They don't do it out of obsessing or motives, as they often say in a simplified manner, just to get to a cheaper worker. There is still a likely space for salary growth, as we will hear from our colleagues from union lines, it may be a form of pressure on wage growth, but wage growth has its limit. We can't have wages like Germany and Austria, we can't have them. We can't pay for the waiter, the maid, the cook, or the bogeyman as Germany can pay for it, not right now. We can't now, we can discuss as much as you want about why it's such a historic, cultural thing, I don't know, like this or whatever. But these people don't. This year, only 28,000 work permits were used if I am not wrong with last year's 86s, which is 60,000 people worked less in this country regardless of whether it's Croats, Croatian citizens or foreigners, it should be added to this pandemic minus. It is not only about the increased number of unemployed registered but also about those people who came and worked last year, and this year they do not work in Croatia. It feels and will feel like a minus in our daily life. So, if Croatia can't do without foreign workers then I would say that what this law suggests, which is otherwise acidified and worked for years, it has been preparing and I know why it is because there is ideological resistance above all, this is an unpleasant political issue for both left and right, this is an attempt pragmatic attempt to react to something that Croatia has failed to do by bringing migration policy or migration strategy. This is a substitute for lack, this law, for lack of such a strategy. We don't even have those strategies because we don't have a strategy for Croatia's development. We used to create a state and agree on it consensually. But what kind of company do we want? There's no consensus about it. We don't even know what kind of country we want to live in in 5, 10 or 15 years, we don't know or agree about it. And it is very important to define national objectives, a national strategy because this is an integral part of achieving such a national strategy. This direction that this law is going is a good direction, a good direction, away from the only securitisation approach to immigration issues in Croatia. We had some kind of migration policy every two, three years being brought, but it had nothing to do with migration policy. It was a question of immigration, I don't know, visas, asylum seekers, etc. And it's always been watched as a security issue. What we're talking about is not a security issue, this is the central development issue of the country. So, right about that and trying to go proactively, I say hello, that's good. It reduces the rigidity that normally follows Croatian legislation, we are rigid in everything, we have got this country and now we want it all, we all want it rigidly to protect that nothing is given by God. Simplification of procedures, God forbid that people can normally work brothers without all these bureaucratic burdens, etc. This law goes that way. Besides, a reduction in administration. You may not have noticed but the MUP has taken over that he is now collecting all the data he can get that doesn't have to ask for it, etc. I can't believe it. It's time to end, so I'll continue in finals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4854	Thank you. Now it is up to Mr. Hrebak and Mr. Krasic to share the time of the club of representatives of HSLS and Reformists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4855	Dear Vice-President of the HS, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected state secretary with associates. I listened very carefully to this whole debate about the Foreign Law this morning and I listened carefully to all my colleagues who spoke on this subject and I can say there is much there to defend their ideological positions, but I did not expect such a quality debate from Mr Vidovic and I will continue my debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Foreign Reformists to continue in the same tone. As counterpart Vidovic said, if we were to look realistically with my own, I would say by the usual normal civic understanding that this law has already been in essence and how long it has been going on, for several years now, this law has already been in the Croatian Parliament, several times it has changed and we have entered into a common European legal framework that regulates the single market at EU level and that this issue of foreigners would be equally regulated in the EU-wide area. What immediately if we put everything aside about exactly these nomotechnical things about this law, a certain part of the harmonisation that an ordinary citizen can see is what is the feature of this law itself are just some three things that I will in this further debate on behalf of the club and try to further elaborate, and they concern, of course, the abolition of quotas, so the simplification of administrative procedures bound to only obtain and the possibility of the work of foreigners in the area of the Republic of Croatia. The other thing is what happened to me right away came into my eyes, was to facilitate the regulation of temporary and permanent stay because I worked precisely in this area and I know how complicated it was before exactly for members of the Croatian people who do not have Croatian citizenship or who are without Croatian or without any other citizenship and who want to come to the Republic of Croatia, that part has been significantly reduced. Administratively these people will have a much easier procedure, they feel like Croats, they come to Croatia, and then on the other hand they can't get some basic rights that the previous law has made impossible for them. And of course to liberals, what is important to us is that I have heard that it is praised by some other colleagues and colleagues, which is precisely a relief to digital nomads, so people who are closer to a new generation, who are closer to some new interests, professions, professions and some new economic branches to come to Croatia and work in Croatia, to make Croatia more attractive to them. As for this first part, where this law is more regulated since the beginning of next year, no quota for foreign workers will be regulated, so far it has been a complex administrative process, and we all know that opportunities on the market have changed much faster than we expected. The high pressure was needed by entrepreneurs and labour particularly in the construction sector and tourism in order to monitor the growth trend of the Croatian economy. And here I will agree with my colleague Vidovic, who has been very beautiful and wonderfully apostrophe, and I will perhaps be a little braver and say what will happen in Croatia and what we can now from our ideological positions deny and pretend that this is not happening. So, Croatia has the opportunity to miss several hundred thousand jobs, so this Covid crisis that happened only temporarily stopped it, and you know for yourself that a large part of the entrepreneurs are crying out for a quality workforce, especially in the building and tourism, and Croatia has only 3 chances of changing something on this matter in a very short and fast time. A colleague Vidovic pointed out exactly what this law allows and offers, so it is an elimination of quotas to reduce this administrative procedure so that our employers, entrepreneurs, can get to the workforce very quickly, regardless of the pay, it is difficult to raise the wages, we will hardly become the preferred target for our Croats to return to us in a very short time, let's be realistic. We all know the salaries of all those young Croats who have left is only 3, 4 or 5 reasons why they left, that's our problem and we'll have to deal with it, but the pay isn't the only reason these people are leaving. However, just over this quota I say, the abolition of the quota is exactly what employers will get I would say some direct instant time, without some time-out when they will get a chance to employ quality labour so that at least this tourism where they can already be seen and keep the building alive and allow entrepreneurship and the economy to speed up their economic growth. Now something controversial as I say, but it is true and it is so, so digitisation, roboticisation, automation of business processes, it is another way that we can therefore reduce the need for labour and improve our economy so that it can catch other European countries very quickly, very effectively, and we all know that we are lagging behind them. And the third thing that we're also offered, someone will agree, someone won't agree, I personally think it's something that is equally desperately needed. So we all know that we have a huge administration, a huge bureaucracy that is simply too expensive for this beautiful country of ours, and we simply have to spill a part of the people right out of this administrative, bureaucratic sector into the real sector to give the real sector a chance to breathe. Many have spoken today, so let's give the Croats a chance, here we can give the Croats a chance to work in the real sector, but we have to move them one piece from this particular state, administrative, bureaucratic sector to the real sector so that it can work. This law will therefore enable and it is my pleasure, employers, that to find the workforce to be able to address HZZ and that in practically 15 days, how long it is for HZZ to respond whether there may be a citizen who wants to work in the workplace or not, so also a new 15-day period for that stranger who wants to work in Croatia to grant him permission to live and work here right in Croatia. What I said to myself would in some way be a little bit of a concern knowing our system, if it wasn't a little bit too bold, I think I would personally be overjoyed to do all this in a month, especially to have the M.P. issue a 15-day permit, but I'm glad to go in that direction, I'm glad that it's trying to cut down this administrative procedure and if it really lives that the permit can be obtained in 15+15 days and that it's almost right in that period of 30 days, that the procedure will be made easier, I think it will greatly help exactly entrepreneurs who won't have to wait long and who will go through this whole procedure in a much, much less painful way. The last thing I would point out is that this big step towards digital nomads, which therefore follows modern trends in the labour market, where we are essentially sending a clear and good message to a new type of entrepreneurship directly based on IT industry and new technologies, so foreigners who are doing business on a digital basis for foreign employers, this way will regulate a temporary stay. We have followed everyone in the media how well this echoed, I think it is a very good message, how many of them, how much they will make in Croatia, I think it is less important at the moment, I think it is much more important message that Croatia sends and sends a message that we can respond to the needs of this particular entrepreneurship key very quickly, that we can change the law, that we can adapt very quickly to the conditions that are on the European market and someone has said well, so one part of the Croats will probably come, come back here and work together as digital nomads in Croatia when they see such a good message to allow their colleagues, foreigners with whom they worked in various European countries, to come to the Republic and work together with them. It is a good message that Croatia sends, I often like to compare Croatia personally with Estonia, a country that has gone very far ahead, a country that is very close to us and by the number of inhabitants and by culture and by some other things, but also by the size of the country itself, Estonia has become one of the leading countries, one would say, an example of how a small country can catch large European countries that are developing and how it can monitor their development of the economy. I think it's very important that we follow this example of Estonia, that we follow the way that they are regulated not excessively terms for digital nomads, for example, they only need a few things to deliver, for example e-login, proof that you can work remotely, evidence that you can only work for foreign companies and clients, proof of a certain level of minimum income, proof of an active contract and work with a company registered outside the country and you get permission to work in Estonia as a digital nomad, I hope that we will go in that direction too. This law to sum up now all at the end is a very important step forward towards continuing administrative discharge and liberalisation as some other colleagues have said [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] And we'll support him as a club. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Hrebak.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4856	Thank you, thank you. Now it'll be Mrs. Gossip. Vesna Vucilović speak on behalf of the National Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4857	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. This law includes a very complex question. It contains a number of elements that are reflected in different areas, so it remains really unclear why this law comes to an extraordinary session because it is an extremely important law. In this ten-minute presentation, it is difficult to count all that this law applies and colleagues have already spoken a lot about a number of elements, I will refer to the changes that the law adopts in the segment of employment of third-country nationals. It makes sense to me that as a liberal colleague, Hrebac supports the liberalisation of the labour market, but it does surprise me that the SDP club also supports it as a social democratic party that should nevertheless take care of labour rights. At the same time, their representative on the board was against it yesterday, so it is such a small surprise, but well, I will return to the employment of third-country nationals. Art. In 97th is prescribed this new employment model and we have all heard, so the current law means we have a quota system, the government of the Republic of Croatia is making a decision to determine the annual quota, on a proposal from the competent ministry and also on the opinion that both HZZ, chamber and social partners. So we've had more players now, it's not just the government kind of kicked out of a quota, so one year it's 7,000 and another year it's 100,000. So we've all seen here that this labour force problem exists, but that quota height has been one very difficult question for years, it's broken that spear, right, because of the question of the amount of quotas in certain activities. Often this interest in quotas was actually a list of Croatian employers' wishes, not always a real lack of domestic labour. We heard that Croatia has left between 300, 400 000 people since we joined the EU, objectively that is the problem. So many activities have a problem and, in particular, this has been reflected in the catering and tourist activities, which, on the other hand, has had one remarkable growth in the past 3 years. All of this led to the dramatic jobs of employers, so we saw that the secretary of state said, through an increase in the number of quotas that reached over 100,000 this year anyway. It's just saying that the government has met employers' demands so far. So they didn't have any problems and I don't see why this system that we have would change. The more the tourist season this year is about 50% last year. That's a fact, so we have such data coming in and frankly, the public feeling is that it's very tragic but in 2010, we've had 50 million nights, which is about 50% since last year, so we haven't cried so much over it. The government has also ample with measures to curb the crisis's corporals co-financed employees' salaries for tourism sector companies and continues to do so. On the other hand, in Virovitica sugar was closed during that same period, the Osijek milkman was closed before closing. I have to ask myself, can't there be anything done for companies in Slavonia, or is it for us Slavons and Baranjas the only map in one direction for Germany? The quantum system had deficiencies, it wasn't perfect, what is now proposed to us on the eye offers stricter control, but I think the shortcomings are even greater. So this paper that's being introduced through the labour market test is essentially the weakest link in the entire system. So the labor test aims to draw first from this quota of unemployed domestic workers through the intervention of the HZZ, which would then breed employers and workers, and that is exactly the weakness. Namely, the employer and the worker must find a common language, here we had an example of Đurđevac-Split and now they do not agree and the employer may request the authorisation to work, but they do not have to agree and very often do not agree on the height of the salary, it is a fact. It means enough that the employer has fulfilled a certain form, satisfied some formal level and opened up a space for hiring foreigners. Of course, this law and the labour market test provide for the exceptions mentioned in several articles. I'll just look back at the article. 101st, he says, "The assessment of the situation and the need will be established on the basis of criteria relating to 1. of missing interests on the national, regional and local labour market, and cannot be compensated for by migration in the country, 2nd implementation of strategic and investment projects and below 3rd", which is kind of the most interesting "other circumstances important for economic growth and sustainable development". Could it have been more general? Under point 3 can really go all kinds of things. Perhaps it could be written in other cases that would agree with someone. So this country has I watched yesterday, this morning I didn't make it to the site of HZZ 151,126 unemployed. We are in the midst of a health crisis that has spurred a new economic crisis and we will now lift quotas and liberalise the small-door labour market. It's totally unacceptable, it's not demagogy. Let's not say it's some ideological demagogy, it's not. So even so far, there's been no coordination between the Employment Service, the labour market, we have some occupations that we're chronically missing, and they're not, they're not, they're not, I don't know, some kind of robotic engineers. We miss pizza masters, cocktail masters. Well, is that a problem, so does it need a college to do it, does it take five years to go to school? There's a course being organised. Why isn't HZZ doing it? We have a lot of those who are registered there with the Soviets who could requalify themselves and meet the needs of our caterers. We heard here colleague Bulj said, we have some programs for nurses who go further to Austria, Germany, Switzerland and again to other countries. So for a few years, we've had a constant labour shortage. It's funny to you, the caterers don't, believe me. This is a serious problem for tourist workers as well. So it was expected that employers would still offer contracts indefinitely and slightly higher wages. Something has been achieved, but not enough to keep the domestic labour force on insecure jobs that are not enough for a standard of living that is suitable here in Croatia. On the one hand, we have government measures that are measured by billions to preserve jobs, and on the other hand, this law will now allow for the arrival of unemployed, underpaid workers from around countries. In this way, in principle, labour prices will grow because we will have tax reform and something will decrease income tax, if employers leave it behind, but in principle, emigration will continue. I must point out that Croatian salaries are at the bottom of the EU, so we are here at the bottom, and we are at the top, not only in Europe, but also in the world. So the Republic of Croatia is the fourth country in the world to move out, only Haiti, Venezuela and BiH are ahead and that is a serious problem. This law will basically be another nail in that devastating demographic state in the Republic of Croatia. We've heard a lot about these digital nomads here now, so now as the whole law is about these digital nomads, honestly this can't be the case because if you look at... the index of Estonia and Croatia then you'll see again that we're at the beginning and that's why Estonia has this law, and Croatia doesn't, in principle, need We're not gonna back the law because it's just not good enough. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, Mrs. Vucilović.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4858	Thank you, too. Now Mr. Miro Totgergeli is in front of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4859	Thank you, Vice President HS. Honorable secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. So today, through these discussions we have heard many different views, and in fact we have heard debates about the Income Tax Act with many other parts of our legislation, but today we are discussing first and foremost the Foreign Law. Of course, this law is complex and extensive, it is complex and extensive and existing Foreign Law, so of course this bill must also be complex. But through these discussions, we have heard a lot of false things, especially the tax-related, income taxes, because it forgets the fact that the government has just passed, and this government will continue, every year it reduces income taxes and other taxes, so we have a year-on-year tax discharge, and then it's a lie when it's combined here that, as far as taxes are concerned, nothing is done, and then this law will still bring something that is worse than what is now. But I will go back to this proposal of the Foreigners Act which is before us and which prescribes the conditions of entry, movement, residence and work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia and those who come from third countries. We've heard it's been since 18.7.2019. for nationals of foreigners from the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation, a law that is in force is passed, so this law does not apply to them. It is important, however, to stress that persons who have established Croatian status without Croatian citizenship are not considered foreigners within the meaning of this law, and to exercise their status and rights in accordance with a special regulation in relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. As regards the existing law in this proposal, there are no significant changes in the issue of travel documents for foreigners, and as far as visas are concerned, we have so far had two types of visas, an air transit visa, a visa A and a short visa, a visa C which, as such, remain in this proposal. However, what is new, on the basis of a short-stay visa, a third-country national can no longer work in the area of the Republic of Croatia or this proposal of the law, in accordance with the EU rules amending the Convention on the Implementation of the Schengen Agreement in relation to the movement of persons with a long-term visa, a new institute of long-term visas D is introduced with which third-country nationals who are authorised to stay for the purpose of working, family integration, study, research, secondary education, or if they have issued a permit to stay and work use that visa when entering the Republic of Croatia, if necessary. A third-country national who has been granted a long-term visa shall be required to contact the competent police department or police station within 30 days of the beginning of the visa for the application of his residence and to draw up a biometric residence permit. As regards the existing law and this bill, it is similar for a temporary stay which is granted to third-country nationals, therefore it is approved for the purpose of family integration, secondary education, study, research, humanitarian work, life partnership, work, work of a posted worker, residence of a long-term resident in another EEA Member State or for other purposes. And what's new is to introduce and stay digital nomads. When issuing a temporary stay for the purpose of working, such authorisation shall be issued as a stay, as a residence permit and a work permit. According to the definition of digital nomad, therefore a third-country national, this new legislative proposal does not, of course, apply to EU citizens or Croatian citizens who are currently working in some other countries because, without this introduction of the digital nomads into the Foreign Law at any time, they can come to the territory of the Republic of Croatia and do the same thing that this bill would do to digital nomads. By introducing these provisions into the law, we become one of the first countries in the world to legally regulate the stay of digital nomads. All the contributions that Croatia uses in tourism, which is super climate, excellent food, warm and affordable people, accessible health, good internet connections, excellent connections with Europe and the rest of the world, and perhaps what is most important, and what foreigners themselves often cite when arriving in Croatia, which is that Croatia is a safe country, and therefore it is safe to live and start a family and all those tools should also be used to attract as many digital nomads as possible, so people who can work their jobs from home from any country. People like that are getting more and more every day, and the crown certainly hastened that trend. So, with this legal solution, we open up the possibility of using world trends to encourage our economy. The proposal also makes it easier for members of the Croatian people who do not have Croatian citizenship to regulate the temporary one more favourably, and hence, a permanent stay in Croatia. They are not obliged to prove whether they have health insurance and maintenance funds in the process of obtaining permanent stay and are not obliged to prove knowledge of Croatian and Latin letters. Perhaps the biggest difference between this bill and the applicable law is to leave out the provisions on the fixing of the annual quota, the permit for the employment of foreigners and the introduction of provisions obliging employers to submit a request to the HZZ for the implementation of the labour market test before applying. It is explained what this test means in principle and what is defined here, it is those 15 days that the Employment Office is obliged to respond to the employer and when the employer has that answer, then he can use it for the next 180 days, or in those next 180 days, to apply for the authorisation of residence and work of foreigners, to submit it to the MUP, which within 15 days is required to obtain all data, to carry out checks, for example, criminal and criminal records, to prohibit entry into the Republic of Croatia or the EU and to respond to those 15 days to the employer, which means that the period from the beginning of the process until the end, shall last 30 days. In addition, the bill provides for exceptions to deficits, such as carpenters, masons, waiters, butchers, and for 90-day seasonal work in agriculture, forestry, catering and tourism when no labour market test is required. Here we have heard that such occupations as construction professions would not have gone beyond our country if wages were different, but it seems to me that, in fact, without these departures, we would not have had enough of such occupations, simply because of maybe of modernism, one part of our children in the past, simply did not sign up for such interests in high school at all, in recent times the government has worked to encourage our young people to enroll craftsmen’s interests, and it also says the data if about 80,000 permits were issued for the work of foreigners, and let’s say the DZS data suggests that we’re a total employee in 2018 at 12 months. Had 1 405,000 and at 12. In 2019, which is comparable because there was no crown, 1 540 000. So the number of new jobs in the Republic area has grown significantly compared to growing quotas for people coming from third countries to work in Croatia. And finally, the Foreign Law doesn't change much about illegal migrants, so it would commend our officers for good work and, of course, The HDZ Club will support this bill, thank you. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4860	Thank you very much, thank you. Now the Green-left bloc advocates' club is going to perform, so Mrs. President will speak first. And then Mrs. Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4861	Good afternoon, everyone. We must make it quite clear that this law fully liberalises the import of foreign labour without quotas for the employment of foreign workers and that the law does not have an impact assessment of such liberalisation as will result from its adoption. The proposal for a law stipulates that a positive opinion of the HZZ is attached in the process of applying for residence and work permits, since the Government will no longer prescribe an annual quota for the employment of foreigners. So while the Secretary of State for Immigration replied to me, Zarko Katic that this allegedly is true, means that the law protects Croatian workers as well as that of a foreign worker even there I have to admit I was even surprised at his argument because some things we can't really say that even a foreign worker costs more than a domestic worker, this is what the former Minister Pavic claimed, who claims that the labour price grew when the quotas increased, which is also quite a frantic statement, we must certainly bring it into line with that the labour price didn't grow, right, that's what's important. So absolutely, so liberalisation does not protect Croatian workers, it does not grow, so labour costs are liberalised, it should be made clear that labour shortages certainly mean an increase in labour prices and a rise in wage prices in Croatia anyway, we have among the lowest wages in the EU, so liberalisation at best means stagnating wages and for that we have statistical evidence. So, in 2018, the gross labour price grew slightly, so 8.2% but the number of permits was, say, 30 and some thousands in 2018 and over 70,000 in the following year. So the labour price's going up a little if we have a demand for a worker. Why? So, not 14% of the working-age population has moved out because of the desire to travel and acquire new experiences, right, people have left because the labour price is extremely low, with a minimum wage you can't survive the month. In absolute numbers, we have to say clearly, there is no shortage of labour but there is a low labour price. In absolute numbers it means 3 times the working hour's price is with us than in Germany and Austria. Therefore, the liberalisation of labour imports means that for certain interests, private workers are not going to be pressured to raise the labour price but are thinking of making more profit through greater exploitation of work. Entrepreneurs have been pressuring in recent years anyway and are demanding the abolition of quota employment, we can say without exaggeration the fulfillment of one entrepreneurial wish and there is a legitimate question of the union in the e-consumption, in their comments, whether a Croatian employer who is not able to secure the wages from which to live is needed. So these are employers who will, for example, offer a miserable low labour price of 20 an hour for heavy jobs such as picking fruit, so of course from the employment office will get an answer about this famous labour market test, that there is no demand for this job. So entrepreneurs know that there's always someone who's willing to work for less, right, this introduction of competition and the admission of foreign workers, the government actually makes the position of employers much more difficult for the conditions of domestic unemployed and employed labour. I will say that, of course, we have nothing against migration, although Croatia unfortunately spends millions to prevent migration, although migrants do not want to stop at all in the Republic of Croatia, so we should also say to everyone that we are actually doing a job with the EU, these mythologies of alleged sovereigns, is that, if they should, prevent these immigrations, they should be clearly called as extremely unsuspective because they fantasize about some danger of the penetration of foreigners, is that they just want to go through Croatia but at the same time, and they are, and it is quite okay for the economy to organise themselves on the principle of a free market that allows people to work for wages which is not enough to meet the basic human needs. Also, these myths about liberalization is, markets, market fundamentalists are also false because their liberalisation has been going on for 30 years, this is not false capitalism but capitalism on the periphery and I can say in the end that in some ways even I am glad that it has shown that the visions of SDP and HDZ in this regard are exactly the same as their satellites. It seems here that only we have some real vision and an answer to something that is really problematic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4862	- Mrs. Crescent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4863	Thank you. As my colleague already said, so this bill is actually a vision of the migration policy that this law maintains, reminds me of a film that we did 10 years ago and we called it "We wanted workers to come to us people" and I think that just as after this law was implemented and this body, but also the government will be surprised that workers are not only workers but are also people. And on this human aspect of any Croatian citizens and oil workers, as well as those who come, this law does not really take into account what proves and that certain provisions concerning access to the temporary stay and the possibility of obtaining any temporary, permanent stay and asylum are actually difficult. For example, the Committee for Appeals at the Ministry of the Ministry of Interior is abolished as a secondary body in making asylum decisions and other institutions related to the rights of foreigners. What does that mean exactly? This specifically means that the only legal remedy that a person who is not authorised to stay or is not granted asylum will have an administrative dispute. As you know, the administrative dispute does not delay the execution of the solution, so in this case the person will be deported for the entire duration of the proceedings and we can say that after 3 years when the administrative court, for example, that right, it will not mean much to her because she will not actually be in Croatia anymore, nor will she be able to join. For this reason, we believe that this law does not provide for an effective legal remedy and since it is a constitutional category, it must be prescribed that if the administrative dispute is the only legal remedy, in order to be effective, it must delay the execution of a solution, for example on deportation. In addition, what is particularly problematic to us is that this law continues to transfer responsibility for returning in an illegal transit to the carrier. For example, you have a situation where a person buys a bus ticket, boards a bus carrier and the carrier now has the responsibility of actually controlling whether it is legal or illegal on the territory of the Republic of Croatia because if it is established in police control that it is not, he has a obligation to return it to the border, it is therefore also not acceptable because it is a transfer of responsibility by police and public services to carriers who are neither qualified nor should do so. We are also looking for and will ask that this law prescribes that one of the conditions for granting a temporary stay when it comes to temporary stay on humanitarian grounds, that as one of the conditions is to delete the certificate of impunity from the country of origin, because very often when it comes to humanitarian stay, it is about persons who cannot come to such confirmation because of the state of war or other conditions. It would also point out that the law did not include life partners in the definition of members of the rope family. There is indirect discrimination and the opposite is the decision of our Constitutional Court as well as of the European Court of Human Rights that, regardless of the category, whether it is a marriage or a life partnership, none of the rights of private and family life or classification should be different from those of heterosexual couples. Finally, every migration policy should be aimed at better integration of persons who come to Croatia into Croatian society. The prerequisite for this is knowledge of Croatian. I've worked with strangers for years, refugees, asylum seekers, and I know it's one of the key preconditions for social inclusion. For years, we do not want to single out for Croatian language learning programmes, although they are extremely cheap and I also charge for a test of knowledge of Croatian language to people who are very often unable to pay for it. So it's our goal. as countries for people to learn Croatian [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] And to integrate them as well as possible. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4864	Now it's Mr. Cresso Beljak who will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4865	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Secretary of State, allow me with a few words to refer to this bill on behalf of the Assembly Representatives' Club of HSS and HSU. I have to say that I am amazed by the blindness of the far left and the far right, I expected it from the right, but from the far left, I did not blindly and elementally not knowing that closed societies were doomed. So they're simply doomed. When we talk about a segment of foreigners, or imports of labour in this example, we need to talk with two aspects, not only of economic not only protection, but also of labour markets, but also of demographic policies that have been catastrophic in the past 30 years and which, unfortunately, continues in such a disastrous way. Trends are simply such that over 10 years, at the latest over 10 years, we will be in a situation that pensioners in Croatia will not have anyone to pay their pensions from. So what's going on in Western Europe, what's happening in Germany, is not because the Germans say we love foreigners, we want foreigners, so here we are, letting it move in, I don't know, a million or a million and 500 thousand people, but precisely because they're aware that when we talk about the Germans, it's the same question that they're even nations, but well, they won't have anyone to work for a few years. So that's what's gonna happen with us. Competition, I can't understand that someone's afraid of competition, so we live in capitalism, so societies where there's no competition, and one of those societies, in one of those systems we lived in, that's communism, are also doomed to failure. So, without competition in the labour market, without competition, if you want to and in prices, there's no progress. The structure, the educational structure of the Croatian population is another disaster, and you should all know that as well. So the percentage of the highly educated population in the labour market in Croatia is among the smallest in Europe. Yesterday I saw a documentary, in Ireland, more than 50% of people have higher or higher, or higher or even higher than that of professional equipment, in Croatia it is below 10%. So in such a competition of work, we say that we will ban the entry of foreigners in any way is a disaster. You need to learn from history, the most successful state, so if you want the present, the most successful countries are also the most open to foreign labour. We can learn from Croatian history, who were in the 19th century, if we start here, there is my colleague Prkacin, if we start on Croatian national consciousness. Who were the people who practically hit the foundations of the Croatian People's Revival in the early 19th century? By order of foreigners, Ljudevit Gaj, Stanko Vraz, Bogoslav Šulek, who is practically Croatian linguist, Slovak, Strossmayer, stranger. So it was the foreigners who raised the Croatian national vision, the national renaissance in the early 19th century. There is no segment of society where Croatia's progress as states has not been dictated by foreigners. You want from agriculture, there were wooden plows in Slavonia until foreigners from then-Austria, but yes, they were foreigners, they weren't Croats, but they became Croats. No one today argues that Bogoslav Šulek is Croat, although national, he is Slovak, he is not Croatian. Culture, science, education, to sports, if you will. So, the bearers of prosperity, of progress, were always strangers. Today, the most successful countries in the world are the ones that attract a highly qualified and all the workforce, and then make a positive selection of all the personnel they receive and become the most successful countries in the world. Ireland was a mere poverty 30 years ago, even for us. And even for us. What did they do? They invested everything they had in education and today they are an attractive European world destination where 850,000 foreigners live on their thoughts of 4.5, about 4.5 million inhabitants and we can compete with Croatia. Last year, there were 80, 85, there were some thousands of entrys into the country, so people who moved and at the same time about 70,000 people moved out of Ireland, in those 70,000 people, almost 50,000 were Irish people who went to Australia, Canada or where no one thought it was a problem, but everyone thinks that Ireland is and today you do a survey in Croatia, most of the Croats will tell you that Ireland is a desirable destination for life. So come on, we learn from the best, let's not close ourselves, let's not build walls around us. This is how we do evil and bad to Croatia. The labour market, I can speak from experience as head of local administration, as mayor for 12 years, where the first 7, 8 years of my term came to me daily as a doctor, waited in the morning and asked for a job. Then up to a year no one came and after that turned the situation around, people started coming, but not those looking for a job, but entrepreneurs, craftsmen, looking for and asking if I had anyone to work. So the situation has completely turned around. In this situation which is worse and worse every day, look at how many entrepreneurs are looking for labour, and I cannot find it in Croatia for many reasons, for many reasons, it is necessary to welcome this law, although I think it is still restrictive, that it should be more open. Let's not lie, in Croatia people who want to work mostly and work. I'm going to compete again with Western-developed Europe. What do you think when Croatians and other foreigners came to Germany that, in the '60s, '70s, they came to the best paid, or to the most attractive jobs? No, I don't. They came to the most unattractive jobs, to those, to put it that way, that the Germans didn't want to work on. Today it is happening or will happen very soon in Croatia. None of the Croats will be a undertaker, however, nor will any of them go to vocational education, look at only enrolment quotas in high school, and you will see that no one else will be a locksmith or a waiter, so the catering or vocational schools are empty, everyone would be somewhere in high school and it should be welcomed, but someone should also do that job. This job will be done in 10 or 15 years by strangers as it is done today in Germany, Ireland, America, in all developed countries of the world. And that's why Croatia won't disappear. It is up to us to legislation, to legislation that these people are more efficient and more integrated into Croatian society, I will not talk about assimilation, but the fact is that when we look at Croats in the third generation in Ireland and Germany, they are not Croats anymore than they are Germans, and in the fourth, I don't speak anymore, we need to agree or set such conditions with us to protect national interest from the knowledge of language, integration in the cultural circle etc., etc., but to ban anyone from entering or creating a wall around me, I mean, my point of view is that there is absolutely no sense in Croatia leading to stagnation, and stagnation in the modern world leads to destruction. Here, according to this, although the law is not liberal enough by my assessment, the Club of Assembly Representatives of HSS and HSU will support the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4866	Thank you, too. We're moving on to individual debates, first Mr. Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4867	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, when we talk about the labour force in the Republic of Croatia, I will repeat once again the important facts that the demographic breakdown in the Republic of Croatia has long begun. We can easily analyze this with numbers in 2019, 2017 9,000 work permits for foreigners were, this year 108,000 which means that the number of licenses for foreigners is growing rapidly. At the same time, we have below 4 million inhabitants, and at the same time the government of the Republic of Croatia boasted about the economic growth that was recorded but on what basis it was founded, it is based on 6% of GDP from foreign donations. No one has any more leads from abroad than we do, these are our evicted people, mostly young, the best labour force to move out and send money to their families. That's what the CNB recorded, 20 billion kunas send us young people from abroad, and that's what our policies did. Did we have solidarity with workers, towards people, did unions and others do their jobs, do we need so many municipalities, cities, counties, all together? When we look at me, we have a number of problems that we have to work systematically, but talk about safe Croatia, speak at this point that you will let go of so much workforce without any control, labour is always needed because now the entrepreneur is in trouble, and the worker is also in trouble because there is not enough means to live. Who are we giving this to? The Employment Service, which will determine without any criteria, without any analysis, without any professional bases, determine how many workers it takes for any job. On what basis have they now concluded this? And on what basis do you give it to the Employment Service? So when you come to a country, of course if you're going to be long-term licenses, five years, more than five years to get, people who are going to leave here, whether they need to know the language, the letter, the history as in other countries. Which is a group outside Europe, which comes the people that are needed, we have a thousand questions. We have one huge potential in the diaspora, we have the highest quality workforce. Here we are now in the shipbuilding of people who work for low wages, so the market says, in agriculture says we literally have more unprocessed fields, and we have never imported again, never given incentives, which means that the state has not managed processes and bad policies have led us to the extinction of Croatia. It is a problem, Croatia is extinct, 2/3 of Croatia is empty. It's not just a country, it's a country. It's a country that's safe for citizens to live. As far as security itself is concerned, this is exclusively connected with Marrakesh, the Marrakech Agreement, the compact, which was agreed on by the left, right, center, the Croatian Parliament did not discuss what was disastrous and shameful while in the Bundestag because it discussed what Angela Merkel and our neighbours were up to, and our neighbours are against it. So we have to discuss and make decisions. The fact at this time that solidarity in Croatia did not exist when large companies failed and when large companies were robbed there was no solidarity with workers. I remember working for the Dalmatian woman I was brought in, a car worker, destined to stand behind people, even then as an active soldier and officer, I stopped, I didn't know why people didn't have solidarity, because we learned to look at ourselves and our jobs and what happened to everything. Industry fell apart because of the market, but also because of the non-solidarity of the mostly union scene, so it wasn't solidarity. According to the fall of the Dalmatian woman in Sinj, others are silent and the order comes to her, of course. And those who did privatisation robberies, those who did what they did when it was most necessary to be together and build Croatia today we have the death of Croatia. 2/3 of that I repeat is empty, and these measures do not lead to safety, nor to the development of the Republic of Croatia, but rather to the destruction of the rest of the remains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4868	Now it's Mr. Ante Kujundzic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4869	Dear Secretary of State, we are going to liberalise the labour market, and we have not protected a domestic worker, a Croatian worker. This proposal will lower the labour price, and we do not know whether we are already aware of the low salaries of people living in Croatia. By docking the quota of foreigners, everything we have left in our human potential will go through the paved trails that have already left a large number of Croats. Yes, the truth is that we raised the minimum wage and commendation for it, but the question is whether we could do more because the minimum wage if we consider it is not enough for the monthly basket of the average household. And what's parallel to that, we haven't cut taxes, fiscal and parafiscal burdens to actually open up the possibility of raising wages in the private sector. We have before us a new proposal for a Law on Foreigners which, among other things, requires the definition of import labour quotas. This proposal, however, dictates the quota of foreign workers, and will deal with it in a request for a stay in accordance with Article. The 97th HZZ proposal, which will give a positive opinion on working within the Republic of Croatia, will then, in accordance with Article 2(2), be re-engaged. The 91st proposal shall be decided by the Ministry by means of a police station, and should be noted how such a procedure can be avoided if we look at the article. 101st of the same. Thus, in this practice, the practice of not defining the quota of foreign workers becomes quite a prospect of indirect downsizing of labour prices, which is not even God now knows how much. Croatia is a country that does not value workers, it is not worth those who actually create money. And if we look back on the recent past, it didn't even take care of workers who actually stayed on the street in my Imotski because of various bankruptcys, in my Imot region around 1,100 people. We first moved around because of the inability of employment and low prices working and no distinction of workers from the unemployed and now that our fellow citizens are one of the best in Ireland, Germany and Norway, not to count and not to be pathetic, I am afraid that this law will further lower the low standard of living of the domestic worker by lowering the labour price to open the door to an import workforce that will actually work the same but for less money. By law and by defining workers and labour prices, there is a real possibility of leaving, and this little youth that remains will still earn bread somewhere where the state pays and values work and sanctions labour. Unfortunately, this law is not affected by it, nor is the Croatian state where this proposal will evaluate labour and domestic labour. In the same way, Croatia is a state that imposes on employers to finance a state apparatus huge, and everything on the back of those who work and earn, and from the fact that profits cannot live on a man who is worthy of his life. I'm afraid we're looking again because we haven't dealt with the issues that are necessary and which should be tied to this law, which are social rights issues for the unemployed. We did not regulate them because the example for public reasons is a secret that social assistance receives far more people than those who actually need social assistance realistically because it is tragic that, for example, on various markets, there are people who are able to benefit from any form of social assistance provided by someone and made money themselves. And precisely because of the number of such users, each user who is realistic and lifeless within the criteria guaranteed a minimum fee or any form of social assistance from the same levels is hardly able to live with the life of a decent man. Therefore, before any attempt to amend and vote for it, this bill required that the whole set of laws, regulations and regulations be rerooted. And finally, I'm going to quote Doo Kikash from "The beggars and the sons," he says, "said, son and craftsman roasting because the dawn is one big cheating, and naked scepters don't build." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4870	Thank you. I'm sorry, you have, you have replicas. Mr. Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4871	Thank you very much. Comrade Kujundzic, this law has been the recognition of bad policies in the last 20 years. Here's a little bit about safety, in the area where you come from and I from Dalmatia Zagora, ever since the counties founded 100,000 people is smaller, the mayor is a Pharaoh, the health care is destroyed, the education, there are no people right, the possibilities of kindergartens and of course there is no labour force, people are going to think, go where the child's kindergarten is secured, the workplace, go, it's targeted by mismanagement in those areas. As for the safety of this law, what security? Well, the other day in Stonenski near you and me because a man was captured by migrants with a gun and a man of 87 years. And took him through the woods for three hours, and the police didn't say a word about it, so here's a secretary. So this was implemented and the Marrakech Agreement that Croatia agreed to without permission and this home, Plenkovic's own government. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4872	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4873	So I agree, the Croatian state necessarily needs one form of regional reconstruction, we have a large public apparatus, in fact every year it happens that a number of people pile up whether in local or regional administrations and self-government units, definitely what needs to be done is one form of regional reconstruction and that money given to entrepreneurs and craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4874	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Let's move on. Katarina Peovic will have her own discussion, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4875	Here's what I'd like first to answer is to deny these demagogues of the Devil and Shulek, the need to open up and the accusation which is entirely false that the left is against the stranger. We are unlike others here for workers to be treated like humans, as my colleague Bencic said. So, in this case, we're dealing with the treatment of foreign workers as a working force for pure exploitation, then of course we're against this law. We are therefore that foreigners come to us, but not so that we can exploit them. So far from us having something against migration, it's a pure demagogy we've heard here from alleged leftist Kresa Beljak we're already concerned about the inequality that is being established here as normative, that it's becoming normal that our people have to go to the EU for a higher labour price, and that the citizens of BH, Serbia and Macedonia are coming to work in Croatia for the price of work that isn't enough for a normal life here, is it? So what's important is to establish solidarity, equality, and.../incomprehensible/... labour rights that apply to all and left are certainly not for any incarceration. What is criminally heard from someone who is considered left-handed is a sentence in Croatia, those who want to work, do, means that this is what the left should stop, and tolerate, that someone who is considered left-handed dared to say that in Croatia those who want to work, in a country where we have one of the lowest employment rates in Europe, is to dereg the responsibility of not being employed by the unwillingness to work, means in the first place, in solidarity, first of all, a dangerous social Darwinism that cannot be heard on the left anymore. No one else, Kresho Beljak says, wants to be a locksmith here. This job will be done by foreigners he says, as they do in developed countries. That's another very interesting statement. So foreigners will do jobs that we don't want to do as they do in foreign developed countries. First, it's funny at that completely banal demagogue level where it's clear that Croatia won't be as developed as soon as Germany, and the second is, again, insolent and extremely socially insensitive to speak of itself as a man who is open to openness and for foreigners to enter our country, but of course, so that we would brutally exploit them. I would also refer to this thesis that is often repeated that there are not enough workers in a dam so that we can't talk about the quotas being closed, means the quotas limit how many workers, the foreign workers need to enter, it's simply not true. We in the construction sector have entrepreneurs who have high profits and who can pay higher labour prices, but do not pay higher labour prices because they do not have the need for this, because a BiH worker will come to them from BiH who will do it for less money. Therefore, while we allow entrepreneurs to lower the labour price, they will lower the labour price as long as it goes. So there is no rule that capital will raise the labour price on its own because we asked him to, as some of our ministers, such as Marić, are doing, ask entrepreneurs to raise their salaries for reducing income tax. So what we need to be aware is that the labour price is in correlation with this law and that the labour price will stagnate, so if we adopt this law. It is also the fact that those who close their eyes in front of that with some flossules about digital nomads, is such fashionable expressions that forgets the fundamental fact that digital workers who are also exploited and work for a lower labour price, so employers take them, and not because they are so ignorant, impulsive, because they want to work in another country or something like that. So we need to be aware that this isn't about any xenophobia or any closure. On the contrary, about solidarity in the world of work. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4876	Thank you. Stay because she was looking for a replica of Mrs. Crescent. It's a ben.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4877	Here's my colleague Peovic, behind this debate so far we've seen that there are actually two approaches. It's one that comes from one side of the assembly and it's based on xenophobia and, in fact, it advocates some kind of closed society and another that comes, in fact, unexpectedly from a spectrum called the Left, which actually doesn't take into account this fact that people here are treated as goods rather than people. What I'm interested in is how you see that this law does not foresee mechanisms to reduce violence against foreigners at the border at all, that it does not foresee mechanisms of legal entry into the Republic of Croatia, asylum seeking, that it does not foresee legal protection mechanisms for these people, health care, integration, etc., and that, on the other hand, only it foresees is the aspect of actual exploitation in the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4878	- Mrs. Crescent. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4879	Oh, yeah. That's, I mean the usual practice of talking about openness when we're missing workers who are willing to work for a lower labour price, and it's about xenophobia, if someone says it's necessary to raise that labour price and protect the labour price, but what's quite safe from this law, is that it's repressive to illegal immigration, that it's repressive to immigrants and that it only complicates the lives of those people, and what needs to be asked is why it complicates the lives of people who are in most cases just willing to go through our country anyway. So, we're doing this, and it needs to be quite clear to everyone, one task and a job for the benefit of Western countries, rich Western countries of the center, who have re-scheduled this role of the antimural Christianitatis, or, predicts which I need you to keep the center alone. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4880	Thank you very much. Mr Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4881	I'd be replicating one thing, but before that, maybe just asking a colleague to probably use the concept of labour prices inaccurately. The price of work is, not identical with pay, we unfortunately have a very high labour price because it is burdened with taxes, taxes, non-taxable taxes, etc., wages are low, I guess, you mean, not labour prices. Although, when you're looking at wages, we're the 3rd country from transition countries at pay level, and the second thing is that these salaries are insufficient for people to live decently on, but what I really want to replicate is the fact that you missed something in this law. Until now, the law had no knowledge of protection or any restrictions it had against the import of foreign workers. I watched last year's company founded on 20.6., 27.6. imported nine workers. Now you have an art. In 93, which specifically throughout a series of provisions provides excellent protection for both domestic workers and workers who will come here, providing them with identical rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4882	Mrs. Peovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4883	Thanks for asking. As far as the first part of the labour price issue is concerned, it's what I wanted to apostrophe in any case not the price of work because it's not the same thing. What we all agree is that the salary is low and that it cannot be lived on. And as for these working conditions, you are absolutely right and I can say that I welcome that the working conditions are even, but I am cynically adding that this is because the working conditions are already so broken for Croatian workers that it was possible to enable foreign workers. But I agree that in some segments, the right to rest, in the working hours segment, the rights of a foreign worker and a domestic worker are equalized here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4884	Thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4885	Dear MPs, Peovic. I will not refer to your presentation regarding the law itself but to your calling that we do not want our workers to stay in Croatia. I believe in this assembly whether it's left or right, no one wants our workers to go abroad and work there. Unfortunately, however, none of us can order any entrepreneur to make big wages. So the wages are currently in Croatia as they are, our workers are quality and demand of course a higher salary for their work and you can't honor anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4886	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4887	Well, thank you, too. What we have to say is that it's not in the field of willful eating we can't say that someone wants our people to move out, but the fact is that our people are moving out and that the politics of your party and the policies of other parties that were in power didn't help or prevent it. So if you're leading policies that don't end this trend but strengthen it then we can also say in metaphorically terms that you belong to a party who has no will to stop the labour drain. And as for not being able to order entrepreneurs to raise their salaries and improve their terms, it is also not in the field of willingness, but some quotas that existed could determine how many workers we would miss. In this case, there is no coercion on entrepreneurs to raise the labour price rather than to lower the labour price as long as the state allows.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4888	Thank you very much. Mr. Fabianic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4889	There are more problems that need to be solved, which are related to the labour market and have to learn some things, not to speak sui generis. For what reason? We can look at how many young people we get into craftsmanship, they don't have to work in Croatia, they can get extremely good tariffs abroad, but they're not there. Therefore, we must have a law to regulate it, and we do not really need quotas for such deficits. And one more thing, I appeal really to this High House that the labor force and the horse are as noble as any animal, but only a man can be a worker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4890	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4891	So I didn't understand exactly what your question is, and I agree that it is necessary to encourage young people to write down those deficiting professions, but I'm not sure that this has anything to do with the cost of their labour force or what they would get and how they would live if they had decided to do it. I mean, it's certainly connected, I don't think anyone will decide to be a doctor if they can't live on it or any other occupation, it's clear to all of us that there's some correlation. That's just the way it is. I mean, I don't know if I answered your question, but I just agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4892	Thank you very much. No more replicas, Mrs. Peovic. Now it's Mr. Marko Pavić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4893	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased today that we can discuss a law that also defines a new system of imports of labour force or quota. As former labour minister, I was involved in proposing to the government the amount of quotas for a year. No quota minister wants to use as the last option and each government wants to primarily activate domestic labour. I am pleased to see that you, as well as former labour minister, recognize the right direction of this law. Thank you for the constructiveity of the debate, I appreciate you in that segment very much. We're on different political sides, but when state secretaries have two former labour ministers who think this system should be reformed, it's a good step forward. This quota system was not designed for this amount of work. I would remind you that in 2015 we only had 230 new licenses issued, and that today we are already at 100,000. And here, first of all, thank the MUP, tell the Minister and thank the MUP staff that such a job has been done and that such a job has managed for our employers to do in real time so that we do not endanger the labour market. I'd like to further discuss a few components to explain why this is necessary and that this is just one part of a larger puzzle. The first thing that comes we have labour market discrepancies, labour market need and available labour force. 150,000 unemployed, but also profiles that they have do not meet the needs of employers. The government has just passed there, and the government of Andrej Plenkovic has invested and will invest significant funds. 8 billion kunas of active employment policy measures, 10 billion kunas promised in this mandate. And it's not just like some MPs from the opposition said the geronto housewives are just being detected for needs and it's primarily building and tourism. The second component is education reform, vocational education, I am glad that someone from the SDP mentioned it, professional education is the key to EUR 80 million we have at our disposal. The third component when it is only then is the issue of importing labour. When we talk about the price of work she didn't fall, when we talk about wages and they didn't fall. The average salary increased by about 800 kuna, we raised a minimum wage by 25%, and I am sorry that there is no colleague, and there is a colleague, Peovic, who should compare the figures we are looking at which are deficiting professions. And I am very glad that the agreement of both employers and trade unions has made an extended collective agreement in the construction and tourism sector that defines minimum conditions and that in the construction sector, wages have increased by 30.40% is just encouraged by investments from the European Funds. So when we look at the labour price, or net wages, not that they did not fall, but rather for those interests that were the greatest pressure for the imports of labour, which are buildings and tourism, they grew and grew significantly. We are proud of both the measure and the self-employment of young people where we have more than tripled the resources that young people can get, and from next year it will go to 100, over 130,000 kuna, there will be young people who will get to start their own companies, self-employment and thus allow themselves to stay in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the above, I would like to congratulate the ministry on the introduction of digital or nomads. I think it's a very good instrument, the other one we have in the EU, and I believe that many will be bold to come to the Republic of Croatia. In the last 4 years we have 100,000 more jobs, we are also aware of the problems of emigration but he is not only a problem of the Republic of Croatia and I am glad that he is the Croatian Commissioner for Demography. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4894	Thank you too, stay, Mrs. Bencic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4895	So I would ask you specifically to answer in a procedural sense what happens to this law to a person who has a temporary stay and has come to work in the Republic of Croatia and, for example, used the family integration institute or has a child here who goes to school here and when that person loses his job, when that person loses his job and can't cover the costs of health insurance and other costs, what does the Republic of Croatia do with such persons? Do we provide them with a humanitarian stay, enable them to assist and integrate in Croatian society or bring them back across the border because they no longer have a job? We know exactly how it was in other countries as well, we know what it looked like in Croatia, and we know how many problems we've made for people because they had children here, because they separated families because they couldn't pay for health insurance, and Because at a certain point they lost [[Thank you very much.]] It's work. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4896	Mr. Pavić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4897	Thank you very much. So I believe that the colleagues of the MUP and in further discussion will explain this more, but I would like to return to another topic, and that is, I am glad that my colleague Kujundzic is here, sometimes I too had the view that those who are unemployed in Croatia might not want to work. As Minister of Labour, I changed that, I was just looking at women unemployed with low qualifications for which we made the program Zaželi, thousands of women who, through the programme, wished employees of many of them in Imotski just returned our dignity, we allowed them not to be on social aid for the rest of their lives, and it is not fair for such people to treat them that way. So this is where you would even agree with your colleague Peovic, give people dignity, and we employ active policy measures, provide such measures that we can hire our people. We have 10 billion kuna in the next four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4898	Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4899	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, we have agreed that this law should be passed, but it is not his fault, and neither is faith, it is not the nation's fault that has us all the less. You are sitting here in Zagreb in a car and driving to Zadar you will not see any Croats or anyone else, fields are abandoned, everything is almost in a general mess. But what we can do is really take new measures that obviously haven't produced results and you've been a minister of work, so the new measures would be encouraging, so we have to raise the salary, we have to keep young families, give them a subsidy that they can maintain the family, that they can work and that they can live here. No matter what, people will still go out there, I know examples where people have high professional equipment, They had a high salary here, [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] They went outside. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Trends are like that, but we have to stop the Croats from moving out. And to be in his homeland the best. [[We have to respect the weather.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4900	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4901	Thank you very much. My colleague, it's just up in the government to create an environment so the salaries can grow. The salaries have grown in the last 4 years, we have 100,000 more employees, but we are also aware of the problems of emigration but we are also aware that it is not only the problem of Croatia. All the new arrivals of EU members have been through this, I did my Master's degree in the UK in 2007, when I came to the Master's Office, practically no Polish citizens in South Hampton, two years after 10% of South Hampton were Poles. What we're looking at right now is that there's a certain kind of depopulation going on throughout Southeast Europe, so there's a cohesion policy, so we have 22 billion euros, and that's why we have support for self-employment for young people who are stronger than in the UK, you get £2,000 there, you get practically 20,000 here to start their own business.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4902	Thank you. No more replicas. Thank you very much, Mr. Pavić. Now we move on to the next speaker, Mr. Franco Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4903	... First, what I would say in the introduction that, in principle and in principle, I welcome the adoption of the Foreign Law, this is the first time since Croatia's entry into the EU to pass a law that does not cover European space, so it really includes those countries that we call third countries and that we do well to regulate it in this way, the stay, transit or work of foreigners here. [[Specially enabled.]] When it comes to the work itself, this law reflects in some way the practical intention of protecting the domestic labour market, so for domestic labour and on the other hand what the needs of the economy are right now and what we are all aware of is that there is fluctuation or imports of labour force. I think in one good act that he has a good intention but there are some things that this law has failed to resolve, we discussed yesterday on the board, and one of these things is, for example. Practically fluctuating workers on a daily basis who come from BiH to the Neretva valley and there is a problem, the secretary of state is aware of it, so to get a working permit in the Republic of Croatia, it must have at least a registered residence in the Republic of Croatia and this is a matter of daily migration, so these people come on a daily basis from BiH and return to BiH in the evening, therefore this is a specific case and I think it should be taken into account and that it should simply be solved in the interest of our producers of agrum, in the interest of those who grow Mandarin, ultimately, in the interest of our market. The second part is that what I have seen, when it comes to autocars, is a fully correctly implemented EU directive since 2001. 51, however, it is not fully implemented, unfortunately, so this directive says that practically passengers without valid documents should not receive it or should not lead to Croatian borders, and if so, the carrier is obliged to return it to its costs. However, the whole directive has one more item, and that is, if the passenger has requested international protection, then the fines are not applicable and I would also ask as a representative to include the whole directive, so that it is absolutely clear what it is. So let me explain a little bit more. If there are certain fines but in the event that a passenger requests that foreigner to seek international protection, the fines shall not apply. As far as other things are concerned, Croatia unfortunately, that young people go away from us, go away and educated people lie, but I think that this is partly the consequence of all our policies over the past 30 years, and we cannot escape from it and on the other hand that the consequences of the moment that we are in, so we are the country that entered the EU seven years ago, we know that in all countries, let's call it the former Eastern bloc the same or similar processes as in Croatia, what Croatia should certainly do, and where I agree with my colleague Peovic, it is possible to keep the price of work and thus we can keep our workforce in Croatia and the state can, through taxes, can through fiscal policy, through a number of other things, it is not true that it cannot affect entrepreneurs, it can be affected, but for as long as it takes, so no more. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4904	Thank you, too. There's no replica. Let's move on, Mrs. Devereaux. Katica Glamuzina, here you go. There's no Mrs Katica Glamuzina, I can't because of the mask, I can't recognize you, I can't recognize everyone. No, well, lose your right. Mr. William Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4905	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. You, Mr. Secretary of State, in response to my colleague, said that this law recognizes the life partnership of the same sex. However, I would still like to warn this one of the problems in art. 64th when defined by a narrow family. A family member within the meaning of this law is a first mate, an extramarital mate, a third juvenile child of married and out of wedlock partners, life partners, or informal life partners. It is possible that a mistake has been subdued, and it may be this one on purpose, meaning that this law, this article, recognises children, but it does not recognise the relationship of their parents, so in this sense I think it should be added to the meaning of a mate, an extramarital friend, a life partner, or an informal life partner, and then on. In this regard, we would like to refer to the Life Partnership Act as a matter of fact. 2. says life partnership is a community of family life of two persons of the same sex concluded before the competent authority in accordance with the provisions of this law. Or in remarks to this law, you may have noticed that Mr Zidarević made it very clear in the decision by Shalk and Kopf against Austria 2010. For the first time, the European Court of Human Rights has recognised that stable links between cohabitation of same-sex couples fall under the notion of family life in the sense of art. 8. The Convention has also opened up the possibility for judicial jurisprudence to establish that same-sex couples are discriminated against by sex in their right to respect for personal and family life. 14th in relation to Art. 8. Convention. Mr Zidarevic notes that his identity card says he is a member of the family of Croatian citizens. And it would be only this one to remind the Constitutional Court that, in its statement on 14 November 2013, the Constitutional Court eventually considers it necessary to highlight the following, a possible addition to the constitution by which marriage is a woman and a man's life union should not have any effect on further development of the legal frameworks and institutions of an extramarital and same-sex community, in accordance with the constitutional requirement that everyone in the Republic has the right to respect and legal protection of his personal and very clearly says family life, and his human dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4906	Thank you, too. Mr. Erik Fabianic is on his way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4907	What is the objective of this law is that of a respected colleague and colleague, as I believe we should look at it, or what is the meaning of this law. The point of this law is that part of the workers who are not able to come to Croatia on the Croatian labour market must be desirable and welcome, but must be fully provided with all those mechanisms... which are valid in the Republic of Croatia with equal treatment as with workers from the Republic of Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we all agree that this is the purpose of this law, then such mechanisms must also be incorporated into that law. However, according to the provisions relating to the work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, what I see now is not so. And what I've shown in my replica is something that is very important for a number of reasons, and that doesn't mean there's no way to get to another reading and happen, which is that it still has to be tried because it has to be done if we're a regulated state, and that's also as a state, we have to guarantee social dialogue between social partners, and in our assembly in case there's no consensus between social partners, unfortunately, to the fact that we're arbitration by adopting the Foreign Law. And the fact is that there is a lot of what the provisions mentioned here are very liberalising and can threaten or lead to social dumping in the Republic of Croatia. The reason is more, of course, that all employers, at least those who are in the army, at least declared, talk about working in good faith. However, we are unfortunately denied by practice because through work permits, through a whole series of other mechanisms, a foreign worker can be subject to various extortions. And specifically about only improving the law on this, I will surely submit a series of amendments. But I will now report that the deadline that is related to the labour market test or lack of workers is extremely short and I do not agree that HZZ is giving an opinion but must give consent because if we are a state, we still have to decide something, not give me a mere opinion. Here's so much from me to start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4908	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Vice President Miroslav Skoro's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4909	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I am not going to talk from this pay phone today about the law by commenting on articles, articles and all that this law does, as well as any other law, and I have no intention of even criticising the good intentions of the MUP to regulate what every country regulates, which is the Law on residence and movement of foreigners in the country. I met with this problem as a young general consul 25 years ago, but what I'm going to try to say is clear because of the Croatian public that ladies and gentlemen, politics is ideology, politics is a worldview, today these masks are actually falling in this assembly because it was obvious and we can all see it together and recognize that there is a contradictory opinion on the left side of the assembly. I was at a meeting of the Internal Security Committee yesterday and there was a SDP membership against this law, today we heard that the explainer on behalf of the club was for this law. So something's going on in that sense. I will not look back at the fact that members of this little more extreme left represent some thesis that is not so much in the protection of workers and that of Croatian workers, but I will most certainly address HDZ representatives and ask them why the haste, why the haste when it comes to the adoption of this law? Is that why we have to ask ourselves what the arguments are, so is the reason 21 acts taken over from the EU and 8 acts being taken over? Is it if it is the EU and those acts, so why don't we implement a few European institutions resolutions when it comes to communist crimes and not yesterday? The question being raised is whether the founder of the HDZ would be Dr. Franjo Tudjman supported this law? The question that arises is why, yesterday, in his debate, his son, Dr. Miroslav Tudjman also had objections to this law and in the way in which we make these laws? We got that bill a few days ago. He is very extensive, and he is crucial when it comes to demographics in Croatia. Let's not hide behind the issue of lack of workers, I'm not here against it as an employer, as a private person, as an entrepreneur unlike many of you, I'm not against it, but I'm against it for hiding behind this law. And behind this law is the fact that it hits the original foundations of the Croatian Constitution, which is the Croatian national state of the Croatian people. And I know that you can easily blow up your hands and vote this bill, that's your right. However, as I said today, the heads of the Croatian greats will be bowed, and we will bow our heads, or you will bow your heads in 5, 10 or 20 years, but you will bow them down. And in that sense, I think that the entire Croatian public, and you present representatives here, should think twice about this law that is not just about the Foreign Law, that is the Law on Immigration, and let's not do everything we can for the Croats to leave, and that some others are coming because our people are leaving because of the bad policies, you said it yourself. It's not just about money, it's about bad politics, so let's go be really a Croatian legislative body, let's change these bad policies, let's keep our people, so if we need 100, but it has to start once. I suggest right now. I know there's a replica, I'll stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4910	Thank you very much. You can stay, yeah. Mrs. Peovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4911	It is very interesting to listen to a colleague of Škor and his presentations that begin with what you said you said as a young consul, and then to an exhibition where you say masks are falling, etc., so obviously you're aiming at some clarification of the situation in this assembly. Then you accuse the left of not protecting the workers, and then we expect you to say something about these workers that will make it clear to us. And then the next thing you know about communist crimes is whether Franjo Tudjman would support this law, the law is complex, then you talk about demographics, then you hit the source of the Constitution, you say in this law, then we heard something about the head of the Croatian giants, to conclude with some people who come, not a word about workers, about workers' rights, not a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4912	Thank you. Please, everything's fine, just don't let the masks fall in this assembly, that's all. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4913	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, therefore this is such a comprehensive law, I have indeed tried in a very short time because so it is all set up, answered and opened as many questions as possible. Of course, the priority of everything is the Croatian worker and you won't believe me, and that's where you and I agree. So I absolutely didn't try anything but to make very many remarks in a very complex law in a very short time and thank you for repeating exactly that and for, in a way, stressing that one more time. Let's not break it so lightly over our knees. Be assured that on this occasion for the rights of Croatian workers I will advocate perhaps even more than you, believe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4914	Thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4915	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. You said that behind every law and policy there is conviction, so of course there is conviction, there is a belief that we need to protect Croatian workers, there is a belief that first we need to find a job for them, there is a belief that employers we cannot provide for Croatian workers, that we need to find ways to develop, without it there is no absorption in funds, the EU funds are the largest employment generators especially in terms of construction. It should also be recalled that Croatian citizens have supported a referendum for EU entry primarily for the mobility of labour, we are aware of the departure of our young people, we are working on creating the conditions that they have and therefore these digital nomads, all instruments, self-employment measures allow them to create these businesses and, of course, there is a belief behind every law, these are the beliefs behind the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4916	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4917	Thank you very much. So look at your colleague, who, about what, you about European money, about European funds. So, I can welcome this desire and purpose and I hope and want it to come to Croatia at any moment, especially as much as possible. Unfortunately, you and I are witnessing that it doesn't work that way. On the other hand, we are witnessing that there are fewer and fewer Croatian people in Croatia and these are inconclusive statistical facts. And also when it comes to the Croatian worker, please don't tell me now that some waiter from Bačka Palanka who works in Serbia for 300 euros and Croatia is so concise, it is geographically laid that he will not rather come to Croatia for 400 euros and can because it is near and go to sleep at night than a Croatian man who with 400 euros in Croatia thanks to our prices can't survive. So, it doesn't seem enough to protect Croatian workers, and I would really like to send an appeal from this pay phone to all employers to do everything they can to keep a Croatian worker, and this is how we send people out and their places are filled with others, it's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4918	Thank you. Thank you very much, no more replicas, thank you. [[Intruder Škoro: Too bad.]] We are continuing to discuss the proposal of the Foreign Law. Now it's Mr. Rasputic's turn. Here you go. Believe me, I didn't recognize you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4920	Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about the Law on Foreigners and we talk about the employment and stay of foreigners in Croatia, of course we are not only talking about the labour market and the needs of the Croatian economy but we are also talking about important demographics and we see a security issue. It is scandalous that the Committee on Internal Affairs and National Security gave a negative opinion yesterday and that so little of this negative opinion is being discussed today. What does that mean? Does the National Security Committee's negative opinion mean that this law threatens the national security of the Republic of Croatia? The reasons for this law lacks projections, demographic and security projections, which it opens and will bring in 10, 20 or 50 years. What do we even want to do with this law? We've heard from the predecessors of the story about this, here's who's going to be paying funds for our pensioners, like there's no labour force, there's no payment for pensions, etc., foreigners are absolutely necessary. But if we look at the experience of the West and the migration for the last ten years, what is happening today is that workforce that will fill the budgets or eventually become a consequence of this new settlement process of burdens for state budgets and the social community? He wanted us to have some new August Sheno, his ancestors, Ljudevit Gaj, Josip Juraj Strossmayer, engineers, architects of top world experts, or the population as we see today in Molenbeek or in the suburbs of Paris or in..., these are all the things we need to discuss. This law is justified by the story of care for the economy and for our entrepreneurs and business. We and in our pre-election programme and what we do and we will absolutely want to help primarily small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in Croatia, but there are many things that can certainly and can make life and business easier, which do not seem to be, from abolishing parafiscal burdens, creating legal and business security that would then finally attract foreign investment, what comes into one Poland or Slovakia, and not coming to Croatia. It is enough to see the affair of the wind power plant and more precisely and incentives and all that is happening around it, to understand how corrupt the network is and why serious capital outside does not invest job creation. Then simplifying business in a formal sense and ultimately reducing taxes. All that can be done, but it doesn't seem. How are we going to reduce the tax when we heard yesterday that people who have two or more properties in one of the most expensive locations in the country, which is the centre of the City of Zagreb, will be taken from the budget, taken from all of us, and most of the entrepreneurs' duties, perhaps children and grandchildren, to honor someone else's, third, fifth or tenth real estate with 50% construction reconstruction. Of course, I exempt people who can't get to their property because they're protected by tenants, that's another question. Why would you even take off your coats? What was wrong with the quotas? The labour market is being monitored and the government is making a decision on quotas. What was the problem with the odds? Why do they trust you to get out of hand? Art. In the 94th century, I explicitly refer to the Marrakech compact, a very problematic document whose best indicator of the democratic deficit is that the assembly of the Republic of Croatia is bypassed, and which contains a number of obviously consciously left cracks, and some of them are seen in art. 66th century, 2nd century, which speaks of family bonding. In that article 2. In 66, there is no need to even provide evidence of the existence of a family relationship, and somehow it can be clouded to receive this pseudonym of the family. It reminds me very much of those difficult points that I have written and spoken about in public about the Marrakech compact. We are talking about the integration of people who are of course welcome, while at the same time it is said that within four years, family members can get a permanent stay, no more five, and do not have to pass the Croatian language and know the Latin letter. How would someone in four years integrate into society without learning the basics of Croatian and Latin? And then it's in contradiction partly with the article. 154th of the same law. Mostly we can't support this law, it's not just the board's opinion that it's jeopardizing national security, but a lot of other things that I've listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4921	Thank you. Don't go. You have replicas. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4922	Thank you very much. You pointed out well that most of the committee has a majority, the Committee on National Security and Internal Policy did not support this proposal of the Foreigning Law tells everyone about this law, that the majority is not for this law either, so it should have been withdrawn and it should have been completed if the quotas were opened in this way in accordance with you well noted and pointed out the Marrakech compact which was not discussed in this Parliament in the last term but accepted it regardless of what our neighbours did not do. The fact that there's a deep-involved Marrakech compact here by order of obviously Germany who doesn't, and calling for security at the moment when migrants from all sides enter into our area primarily when we look at it, here's what I mentioned today when a stone old man is trapped with a gun and led 87 years through the woods, barely alive then what security it is. You have well noted here when we talk about language after four years, not that they will not know the language but the basics of the history of the creation of the Croatian state, that they know something about the Homeland War. So we're here to receive those that don't want Western Europe. So can you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4923	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. Mr. Crucifixion response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4924	Thank you, Mr. Bull. When I mentioned a democratic deficit, it is a fundamental problem today and the EU, and obviously Croatia, which is that more and more decisions on our lives are made by people and bodies and institutions that no one has directly chosen and which do not correspond to anyone. The compact was clearly supervised, seen as the authority of Croatian legislation, and failed to pass the parliamentary procedure, we did not discuss it. Moreover, one of the most problematic points of the Marrakech compact is that it contains in itself articles of the Eagle, literally and I stand behind it, my analyses have been published where essentially it prescribes and punishes the depriving of funds, means of public communication that would not only positively talk about, about migrant movements. So much for Marrakesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4925	- Mrs. Crescent. Here you go, pulac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4926	Thank you. My dear colleague, you said you're in favour of facilitating the business of entrepreneurs, especially medium and small enterprises, and I agree in principle with everything you said you should do to them, so entrepreneurs can breathe, right? You asked yourself why you'd cancel the quotas? Well, it's the employers' association, so it's been asking for years to abolish the quotas and make this bureaucratic twist about hiring foreigners easier in some way. So, they're not asking for this to endanger national security or to degrade our country's workers, but at the moment the workforce is missing, that's the only way they see their business going. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4927	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4928	Thank you. I'll answer, because the procedure is complicated, it doesn't necessarily have to be quota guilt, so it doesn't have to be a problem in itself, we see how they do and increase the next assessment of labour market needs. The employers' association looks at the simplest way to solve their problems, they don't have to worry about demographics and national security, about what will happen in 10 and 50 years, but we as people's representatives have to think about it. I think there's still a lot of room to simplify all of this and to make it to the necessary workforce within the existing quota system, not to remove the quotas and regulate it through the employment office in such a rather vague way. The problem with this law is that he's very extensive and complex, and we got him de facto yesterday. Let's just say a special analysis is necessary of those exceptions to labour market testing, which should only be analysed for at least a week, but here we were not given.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4929	Miroslav Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4930	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Rasputic, so you spoke very well of how truly all the efforts of the gentlemen of the MUP who... To do my job, it seems to me that quality analysis and projection really isn't done. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are moves that may make some of us call for their decisions after 30 and 40 years. in the case of this law, and in particular should be good analyses because there are countless agencies in Croatia, state bodies and what they are already called, which, after this primary job of the MUP, should be accepted and taken into account by these people. We don't care about anything when it comes to outcomes, and in particular it seems to me that it won't be a case here because of a serious state-owned institution that deals with internal security such as the MUP, it takes them over at the end of the employment office. There's no one against the employers. But I don't think this is good. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4931	Mr. Detachment.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4932	Thank you. What I think we really need to be the goal and history of our nation is that such a complex integrated variety of elements and that people who come here and live really become one of us, learn the Croatian language, Croatian culture, become Croats already in the second, third generation. Al this is not possible in such a way as to move this provision of the obligation to lay down Croatian and Latin letters after 4g. stay in Croatia. We want to have some ghetto, some wives who will live indoors and will not walk and communicate in Croatian, children are educated and the like, these are completely unclear things to me. We can observe the process of going to Western Europe since the '60s over the '70s, so on. Let's say I recommend Douglas Murray's book "Strange Death of Europe" in which it is now seen for good intentions, but not thinking about all the possible consequences of how this has occurred today's problem that in the western part of Western Europe has a second and third generation of people who are not integrated.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4933	And at the end of the day, Mr. Hood. Mr. Hood, you're giving up, yeah, I didn't hear. Thank you very much, thank you very much. Let's move on, Mr. Miro Totgergeli will speak individually, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4934	Thank you, Vice President HS, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the distinguished secretary of state with his associates. So we come up with a debate about this Foreigners Act slowly ending and we hear through the debate that the law is passed over the knee. So, it was already said here that this bill had already passed the first reading once, but for the procedural reasons that the previous assembly did not come to the second reading, it now has to be read again and first reading. On the other hand, the law passed a public consultation where certain remarks were made, I picked it up, the billmaker passed 25 objections to the law, which was done at the end of last year. So we've had a long period of time since the law was in public procedure, in public consultation, until today when it came to us on the benches, and it was already at our benches. So this is the first reading and all the MPs and all the clubs can make constructive proposals. The debate concludes that most opposition representatives actually support this bill, all clubs of the ruling majority support it, and in fact one part, a smaller number of MPs or clubs of MPs, the opposition opposes this bill, but by not actually hearing some serious proposals on how to fix it through this debate other than "not good", we have not actually heard any serious proposals on how to correct it. What we all find more or less, it is that the law is very complex and on the one hand it needs to satisfy our need to be as simple as possible, the faster we miss tourists because we need tourists in Croatia, on the other hand we need to ensure safety. And also when we come to employment, on the one hand, we need to react as quickly and as best as possible to our entrepreneurs at a time when there is really no domestic labour market and the facts say that this is the way that we need to react as soon as possible and that the sooner we reach the workforce so that our economy can develop further and so that they can develop, so that I employ more and more of our own and also create greater GDP, create greater revenues and thus make better prosperity for all of us in Croatia. So that's, on the other hand, we need security and it's always kind of compromised, but this law has been so complex in the past, this one that is valid, and that's this proposal, and that's one complex matter that, according to me and what I read in the law, is the ministry that's rooted for this law, but also the rest of the ministries in the government, worked out in detail and came here with one by myself, a very good bill that just comes out of the fact that most of the opposition MPs besides the ruling, this bill supports. And as for these individual figures, so we have the fact that the number of workers coming from third countries has grown over the years and it is the largest right in 2019 and that is about 80,000 workers and in previous years it was less but we also have data from the DZS that are just saying that the number of employees in the RH is 12 months. 2018 to 12 months In 2019, therefore in that same period, it grew from 1,405,000 to 1,540,000. So we can't say that we didn't create new jobs or that everything the government does didn't contribute to our growing economy, to our growing number of jobs. And the truth is, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security has not reached a conclusion at all, not that it has come to the conclusion that it is against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4935	Thank you, too. Two replicas, first one has Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4936	Comrade Totgergeli, you have well noticed that the law takes care of all aspects, on the one hand the need for labour, on the other hand the security aspect. The law requires exactly who can come, when, to whom, which vehicle, and how long, in which way, under what conditions, it is simply prescribed all, so I think that this is a really good proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4937	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4938	So it's not true when some MPs claim that something that's been done by the MUP so far is being transferred to HZZ, quite the opposite. All that HZZZ has done before, it will now do, and what the ministry has done, will continue to do. Therefore, those security measures that need to be done, and I was saying that on behalf of the club, will continue to be done by the ministry. What we're going to do here, to make it faster, to be spotless, to react at a time when it is necessary, and to have the employer benefit from it, but to the whole society to have a greater benefit, to be that within 30 days, but everyone has to do their part of the work as he has done so so far, only that the quotas are not determined, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4939	Thank you. Mr. Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4940	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, the fact is that we need a worker and the fact is that we have to be permissive when it comes to tourists and the fact is that we have to be permissive when it comes to students, that's all the fact, and you're absolutely right. But with the good work of the government and the competent authorities, it can be prescribed at a time when that need is necessary and does not mean that the best way to let go is to let go of everything. If you think it's the best way to let go of all odds, it's your right, but it doesn't mean that we have to agree with you, we think it's not good because those people sitting in those agencies and those bodies have enough time, enough knowledge that they can properly assess. If I cannot assess, I can agree with you and besides, I was on that committee yesterday and the conclusion of the board is very clear, this bill did not get the need for a majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4941	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4942	Thank you. So in fact, the proposal that was put to the vote didn't go through but you didn't reach any conclusion on the board because you had neither the opposite nor the proposal that was, so 5-5 votes, so the board didn't reach a conclusion, so you can't say that it was concluded that this law didn't support it when the committee didn't actually reach a conclusion, it didn't have the majority to reach a conclusion, that's one thing. And secondly, I agree with the first part of your replica because you have practically repeated what I said, this second part cannot fully agree because still on how much permission will be allowed, they continue to decide the same institutions that are before there are no predetermined quotas but are adapting. And now you have a situation where we have a lot more quotas for 2020, but because of the situation they haven't been used, it's been used 4.5 times less than what could be used in 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4943	Thank you, thank you very much. We have a breach of Mr. Bull's Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Totgergeli: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4944	Thank you very much. A colleague was injured by an officer. 238, because it stated that the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security had not reached its conclusion. It's not true, but most of them were against this proposal and most of it had a ruling which says that this law was unacceptable for most yesterday on the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4945	Of course it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but that's why I have to give Mr. Totgergeli, he also has a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4946	My colleague Bulj hurt the Rules of Procedure, 238, and insulting me, saying that I'm saying something that's not true and I've actually listed exactly what the committee report says. So five voted in favour, two were against and two abstentions, which means that no conclusion was actually made.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4947	The truth is, the subject of philosophy is as far as I know, and now either I'm giving you a warning to both or to no one, it's better for anyone, isn't it? Let's move on, Mr. Angelko Striker has his own debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4948	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, state secretaries with associates. Since I am a member of the Parliament's Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and yesterday I was present at the meeting of that committee and today more than those who are not members and were not present but those who were present at that session can state that there has been no debate and conclusions that this law has been harmful to national security. So, colleagues from the opposition took advantage of the situation that two MPs from the ruling quota were absent and one of them chaired the plenary session here and the other fellow MP was on another committee where the vote was waiting. So that's the only reason this bill didn't get the support of the relevant, competent parliamentary committee, is because the absence of two of our colleagues and, of course, the opposition MPs used it as their legal and legitimate right. When we talk about migration, it's good to compare a little in which direction it goes at a global level. Migrations are today a global phenomenon, caused by a series of factors such as economic, social, political, environmental, working and safety conditions. We should not be surprised, therefore, that there were around 272 million migrants worldwide according to UN data in 2019. Watch this, 272 million migrants or a total of 3.5% of the world's population. If we compared it to 2010, it means in less than 9 to 10 years, it's increased by 51 million people. Half of these 272 million kuna migrants live in only 10 countries in the world. Most of them in the United States, 51 million, then Germany and Saudi Arabia are 13 million, Russia 12, V. Britain 10, UAE 9, France, Canada, Australia 8 and Italy 6 million. When we look at the country of origin of migrants, most of them come from India 18 million, Mexico 12, China 11, Russia 10 and Syria 8 million. Also in the UN report, 3 out of 4 migrants are able to work. The Republic of Croatia is a full member of the EU and the EU rests on the principle of freedom of movement of persons, goods, capital, services and, of course, it is our right to use these benefits and opportunities and all of our citizens and, besides that, when I come from the Varazdin County, I will give a few examples from it. The distance of Varazdin to Zagreb is 84 kilometers. At the same time, the distance of Varazdin to Maribor is 84 kilometers or if you want to reach the border with Austria, about 84, 85 kilometers or closer to Varazdin is Maribor or Austria than Zagreb and of course it is numerous of our fellow citizens. My fellow citizens living in the Varazdin County use the opportunity, the opportunity to work where it is closer and for greater pay. Also currently in the Varazdin County area is about 2,000 foreigners, mostly from BiH, Serbia, Nepal, Vietnam and Kosovo. If there weren't those 2,000 foreigners, the question is whether certain companies in Varazdin could do business at all and I think we're all aware that our country is as strong as our economy is. We can single out so much for education, health, culture, sport and everything else we need for the normal functioning of society.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4949	We have several replicas, the first is Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4950	Two things, Mr. Uncle. This bill of law was not passed by the parliamentary board, so things don't go by automation. If something comes to the Parliament and let's say a few... 70 votes for, 70 against the law will not be accepted, so the unresolved result is disqualifying by me for the proposal and raises serious questions as to whether it is jeopardising the national security of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, you are indirectly insulting two of your fellow Members of the Parliament's majority who are members of that committee who have not been present for what reasons. How do you know what their opinion is? Maybe after they studied the law, they would come to the same conclusions that I came to and partly argued within the time I had, and they wouldn't support it. Maybe 7:5 would be the result of the counter? How do you know what they're thinking? So you are the Communist party of Croatia to think the same or to think how you are ordered. There was a vote here on the Istanbul Convention, and some members of the ruling majority were against it. Right, Mr. Stier? So you can't know what they'll think after they've studied the law and don't insult them like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4951	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4952	So, the result is 5:5, and this automation of the party vote, perhaps Mr. Matula was a member of the KKSKH before the '90s... /The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4953	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4954	So, colleague Rasputic, I did not say in one sentence that he had passed and that he had received the support of the Assembly Committee. I stressed that the opposition used that two of our colleagues from the ruling majority were then, one was chaired here, the other was on the other parliamentary committee and that they couldn't be present for that second vote, nothing else. And that I'm not psychic, I'm not, but obviously you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4955	The next replica is the esteemed representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4956	Thank you. Comrade Striker, your explanation of your mathematical equations goes into that category which would be if it were. You don't know how to vote yours or maybe you know, I don't know, but I'll pull your parallel. So HDZ adopted 16% of the total number of voters in the previous elections and formed the ruling majority. It's a democracy, so you have to respect the democratic process. In addition, you've made a beautiful parallel with these neighbouring countries where people from Varazdin, Međimurje go to work, so since Nepal is a neighbouring country or Pakistan, because you've listed it is where people come from. Well, it's not like that. And the quorum you had on the board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4957	Yes, given that the Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy and National Security has 13 members, there were 10 of us, so it was a quorum, 5-5 was voted, and again I repeat no one claimed that it had passed on the board. But there was also no conclusion that the law was harmful to national security as you insist. So that's not the conclusion, no one even discussed it, no one even said one word about it on the board, so that's not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4958	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4959	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Strick, you're talking about migration, this is the Foreign Law, and it's actually kind of been the least debated through this debate about that security aspect of this law, which means that already all the solutions that are in the previous law are a little bit and done, but they're more or less functional and they're good because no one has even discussed this security aspect too much during the debate. And just once again I want to repeat that our officers at our borders are doing a very serious and demanding job and are actually guarding our border at the moment. And some of the events that happen to us where something happens then it's being exploited and it wants to appear as if there's something in Croatia that's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4960	Comrade Totgergeli, you have well noticed that our officers are doing their job excellently, among other things during the Homeland War, I was a member of the first basic, and then of the special Police Administration of Varazdinska and I know how hard and hard and responsible work it is for us to be here today in a warm, safe and debate and even to argue that something happened on the board that didn't happen, which is also for conviction and very interesting. But speaking of migration and migrants, from the Homeland War to today, the biggest security threat that hit the Republic of Croatia was the migrant crisis. There must have been over 800,000 migrants across our area, perhaps more. All that time, society, the economy, tourism did not suffer, and it should be congratulated on all those involved, especially the Croatian police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4961	Next replica, Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4962	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You spoke about the characteristics of migration, you should also point out that this bill clearly punishes the illegal crossing of borders or aid in the illegal crossing of borders and that there are a series of provisions that regulate this issue. I think it is precisely because of the Croatian public that it is also important to highlight this aspect that is regulated by this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4963	That's right, colleague Stier, the law takes care primarily of the security of our citizens, that's the first and most important thing in this law. The law prescribes exactly who can enter, in which way, how long, with which permits, what should be taken out, to whom the deadlines are literally prescribed. Only then are all the other aspects of economic and what we need in order for society to progress. I therefore believe that this law is good and, of course, I call on all MPs to, especially those who love their country to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4964	Thank you. Mario Hood last replica, Mario Hood, microphone, microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4965	If you hadn't answered precisely the question of the Parliament's Committee on Internal Policy and National Security on which you base your presumption that the ruling majority's representatives who were at that assembly would have voted in favour, and not against, and thus in fact, by their vote to show that this law, the proposed law is contrary to national security or that it has a negative view of the parliamentary committee is.../incomprehensible/... Therefore, Mr. Rasputic's presentation would have led him to conclude that Mr. Sanader's presidency of the Croatian Parliament would actually lead to the fact that this law that we are talking about is contrary to the state interest. And Mr. Sanader was at the beginning of the meeting of that committee, and so were you, expressed his positive opinion to the secretary of the board. to this law, but when voting, it did not want to be respected. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4966	Comrade Hood, I'm going to repeat what I just said. So the opposition had legal and legitimate rights when it counted that we from the ruling five, there were five, they used the right not to support that law. So three voted abstention, two against. When they saw that one of our colleagues chaired the session here, and a colleague was on a committee where there was also a vote waiting. So just a moment nothing else, otherwise I'd be sure I got the support of the Parliament's Committee on Internal Policy and National Security even though I'm not psychic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4967	Thank you. Lastly, on behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4968	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4969	A microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4970	And I didn't, I didn't get involved. At the end of this debate, I have to say that I have.../incomprehensible/... resonated although I expected perhaps to a lesser extent than this debate has confirmed that unfortunately she is telling the story and that she has been the thesis that for 30 years Croatia has passed to solve in a serious and responsible systematic way the issue of its migration policy which is much more complex than what is being treated in this bill. One serious migration policy must contain several important elements. One of these elements is the retention of the population, it is also an integral part of the migration policy, how people are kept in the country, how to generate reimmigration, labour immigration, the remigration of highly educated experts, the immigration of refugees, that is another important aspect that such a strategy should have. Generating labour, consumer immigration, quality of life immigration, immigrant offspring immigration, entrepreneurial immigration, generating circulation across Croatia and regulating internal migration. These are parts that should have one serious migration strategy, and Croatia does not. Why isn't she here? So for 30 years, ideologically buried in stereotypes and trenches, we'll never get that out, we'll be courting ourselves with big stereotypes. On the one hand, this debate has shown that the right hand and the left side find themselves on the same background and on the same track. Satisfying some ideological image that they're supposed to be energizingly defending. Dear Croatian countrymen, for, by 2050, 70 million Africans will leave for climate reasons, where, northward, northward. In 2050, I may not be alive, but many who live today will be. This is the challenge the world faces and will face, and we have no answer, we close our eyes to it. And to me, colleagues from the right seem like that priest in the priest's children that movie, remember, his worst black sea was when you met her, dreaming about how the yellow one met, the red one didn't know the black man, and they're singing "it's falling in love", we don't know what fate and fate in that sense awaits us, and what this country will look like, but we have to have an active position, we can't leave it to the verse, we need to know what we want. If people come to us and they have to come, what kind of people do we want, what profile? That's what serious countries have. It's got the Czech Republic, it's got Poland, it's got all the countries of modern Europe. Well, we can't scare people to strangers, we can't stay locked up, we can't, these colleagues from these left positions furt scare the people that they're going to come, so they're going to knock down this labour price, so Germany didn't knock down the price of work in the '60s when the Yugoslavs, the Turks, the Italians, I don't know who did a bunch of people in the baustels there, etc. These are stories that should leave and start to think seriously. As far as this law is concerned, to be quite clear, he's far from ideal. There's a lot of things that could be fixed here. It's a big, big law. I'm not going into all aspects. I was just focusing on this part of the quota. I think that's progress, that's progress for our workers and that's progress for the people who are going to come here. I see here this article in the 93rd great, not to repeat here, which now puts limits on employers who can bring in workers who can't. These are very serious limits. It must, in relation to the social security of workers' rights, working conditions, etc. To satisfy all the most rigorous regulations. He shouldn't have done that by now. It's more security for workers. And just to get it over with, please, population register. We know how many geese, chickens and ducks there are in Croatia, and we don't know how many people there are. The population register and let's get started on a serious migration strategy. There are scientific studies, extensive material that can be used to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4971	The next final address on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4972	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. The debate was high-quality. It can't be said that no one spoke about the security aspects of this law or that some may have slept through the whole debate, so they didn't hear General Sacic speaking on behalf of the Sovereign Club about it in detail and on the subject of every law, the whole law. As far as migration policy is concerned, we lack a lot of strategies. Developmental to begin with, and then these others. Already now, Croatia is a percentage over Germany by the number of foreign workers. It is not the same when 40,000 Nepali, Pakistanis, Filipinos, etc. comes to Croatia. Or when 500 grand comes to Germany. Math is a very exact science. We also heard the number of unemployed dropped last year. He's a colleague, look at the figures for this year. We either slept over or we'll pretend that everything went on nicely in 2020 has no health, no economic crisis and it's not only globally here in Croatia. Well, we now have 40,000 unemployed more than in the same period this year. There's 151 grand at the Employment Service. Well, we now have an office that says, "I offer you three jobs, a job, you refuse, I wipe you out of the office." And now we expect from this institution that doesn't exactly implement this right now that it should take full part and run the market test, and the government no longer brings quotas and Pontius Pilate washes my hands, I have nothing to do with it. It can't be like that. It was about these digital nomads. Now here we go, piled up, some digital nomads. They'll spend it with us. It'll be a miracle. So this law, as my colleague Stier said, has only Estonia that regulates means digital nomads. Estonia is by... index the ninth of the 28 countries observed. Croatia 23. One Denmark is first, Finland is third. They don't have that law either. So let's not kid ourselves, now we're going to have some rich IT guys coming to us and they're going because one man who likes to live in Croatia sent a message to the prime minister via Twitter, and they both found themselves, and right now in this law that's been born for a long time and digital nomads. It's not like that. It doesn't work like that. Today, the number of unemployed is 151 grand. This crisis doesn't have a V-shaped form, it's all those who said that it would have a V-shaped form means a quick fall and then a quick recovery is coming up next year. It's not there. This crisis will have the form of a letter U and with a slightly deeper and longer dent. Which means that the wave of cancellations, probably the reduction of salaries unless this tax mini tax reform where income tax is reduced and no one is saying that there has been no through certain waves means the reduction of tax presses in that segment. That's unquestionable. So it goes on and it's good and it needs to go on. But there is also likely to be a reduction in wages and an increase in the unemployed. See how the numbers went last crisis when we had it in 2009. 2010. It started in 2008, so look at the International Labour Organisation's few figures when it was the biggest wage drop and the biggest unemployment increase. Not the first year, but the second year, and it took about 3.4 years for the salaries to return to those numbers from before the crisis. Therefore, this law, perhaps in this aspect of which I most spoke, would refer to the abolition of quotas and the protection of Croatian workers, might make sense last year? Last year, I would have been sitting in the Croatian Assembly if I had raised my hand to him. But this year it doesn't make any sense. This law brings about changes that are simply not appropriate at the moment, and we must take account of this as a Croatian Parliament and therefore the Homeland Movement will not vote and accept this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4973	Thank you. The next final debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4974	Thank you very much. Here at the end of the debate we saw unity, just as I was amazed by the unity of the SDP with the HDZ proposal yesterday, whether on the board of your members did not support this law, now it is not known whether it is the complete position of the SDP on behalf of the club that my colleague Vidovic presented or part of the club for, and part against, but mostly on the board did not pass, that it would now be glean who voted or that my colleague Sanader would vote if I knew that he would have voted on his own conscience, I do not know what would have happened, but the Committee on National Security and Internal Policy, I stress, the Committee on National Security and Internal Policy of this assembly, the members we voted did not support this bill. Point. All the other debates are pointless. This body was chosen by fellow Vidovic. What you're saying is the far left and the far right is just a label that's a sequence and a series of what HDZ and SDP are doing. When you talk about strategies, about policies towards migrants, Croatia from local self-government, regional self-government, state level, more made a strategy, planning documents, instead of investing that money in agriculture, livestock farming, to be the richest today. Those were inconclusive strategies. Today we are talking about real problems, I am talking about a real structure, since the County of Split-Dalmatia and Sibenik-Kninska from Krka to Neretva we have 100,000 people less in Dalmatia Zagora. This includes the Knin, the Drink, the Sink, the Cetina, the property area, the Vrgorje area, the 100 000 people. In one bodega state, so the area where we have all the resources, we have close to the sea, we have everything. So politics are bad. We have the space to allow the entrepreneur to be reduced to taxes and other taxes, only that the county was abolished, look, but these are empires, these are Pharaoh's creatures that apply large, I know it won't do SDP, or HDZ support it is simply their base, it's their, it's what they do, it's simple how it works. But when we talk about security, then we can't talk about security without mentioning the Marrakech compact. In fact, the only Croatia of all neighbouring EU countries supported the Marrakech compact, and we didn't even discuss it in this assembly, the other members discussed it. Why didn't Hungary, Austria, Slovenia, Italy support the Marrakech Treaty, the Marrakech Agreement? These are questions, because they are being delegated from Angela Merkel, of course Andrej Plenkovic must listen to whether they are implementing their policies and there are problems. It's no problem that we hate strangers now. Who hates strangers? Well, I'm glad to see people. So, first of all, I'm a man who loves all the people in the assembly here, and I didn't see anyone speak against a man like a man. But I'm talking about the Croatian people and the future of the Croatian people, three, we left below 4 million years ago. 4 million people below, an empty state, I mention it countless times, so 2/3 of Croatia are empty. And I'm sorry that you don't accept an opposition proposal to withdraw this law, to open another public debate to the distinguished secretary is simply this way to force something that doesn't accept the main body, means a body that needs to be decided by the National Policy Committee, for national security and internal policy in which most of it has a majority, so HDZ, SDSS, I don't know who everything, HSLS and who's all in it. And you say on the board we're not against it, and this is where you push. So, you're contradictory, and these serious strategic laws for the future of our people in these areas and the development of the Republic of Croatia is this not a joke, this is not a joke, these people are not watching a joke, we need to look at everything and on the part of entrepreneurs and their problems, the problems of our workers who emigrate as I said 6% of GDP 20 billion kuna last year were from our evicted people who were the last 5 years, 20. policies wasted out, meaning something stinks in this country and it thoroughly changes the inside, and not in this way to push the law against whom the parent board is where most HDZ, the SDSS has most Thank you. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4975	Thank you. Here's what we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. Next item of the order, the agenda is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ID card, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 13. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Zarko Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4978	I thank Mr. Chairman, Your Honor. MPs and gentlemen of the Parliament. The electronic identity card first begins to be issued to Croatian citizens on the basis of the Law on the ID card adopted on 2015. Which we're now recruiting. This identity card shall contain an electronic data carrier or a chip on which one or two certificates are stored and the identification and signature certificate. The identification certificate shall be used for electronic confirmation of the identity of the person to whom the identity card has been issued when accessing electronic services, such as e-Citizens. The signature certificate shall be used as support for a qualified electronic signature and shall replace the power signature. Under the 2015 Act, a total of 3 million 53 thousand 565 ID cards have been issued in just over five years, of which 2 million 610 thousand 108 are currently valid. So this difference between around 450 identity cards that are currently not valid is because they are possibly lost, destroyed, damaged. So that personal data of the cardholders changed, which the owner changed residence in the Republic of Croatia, and that is then the reason for changing his identity card or for permanently moving out of the Republic of Croatia. Of these 3 million certificates issued, there were 2 million 139 thousand and 64, and one certificate 532 thousand 336, while without a certificate there were 382 thousand 165 identity cards issued under the applicable law. The amendments and additions proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia are proposed for the purpose of implementing Regulation 2019/1157 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the strengthening of the security identity cards of Union citizens and of residence documents issued to citizens of the Union and members of their families, which exercise the right to free movement. This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 August 2019, and directly applicable in all Member States from 2 August 2021, therefore for 11 months. As many of you know, the identity card is increasingly a document that also serves for travel, therefore for various other purposes, and therefore it is necessary to strengthen its safety. Therefore, the newspaper that brings about the amendment and addition of the Law on the ID card is that the new chip will contain biometric identifiers of the holder of the identity card, i.e. the representation of the person of the identity card holder and two fingerprints, so the two fingerprints of the papal lines of the index finger on the left and right hand in interoperable digital formats. When I initially mentioned a chip containing an identification and signature certificate of this data, this biometric data will contain another chip that will be in the identity card. The appearance of the identity card in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation is also changed so that the ID card on the front shall contain a two-letter mark of the Republic of Croatia printed negatively in a blue rectangle surrounded by 12 yellow stars. In accordance with the provisions of the Regulation, amendments and additions to the Law have also changed the age limit for issuing ID cards issued without a period of validity in such a way that the identity card is issued so that this age-limit is increased from 65 years of life to 70 years of age. It is important to point out here that there is a provision left in the law, so it has not changed that in this case, more than 70 years of age, these persons can now come up with a ID card with a certificate or certificates as well as without them. That's what it's been so far. The identity card issued to children under 18 years of age will contain an identification certificate, and issued to persons from 18 to 70 years of age will contain both the identification and signature certificate. This obligation is not explicitly prescribed by the said Regulation, but the Regulation left the national legislation to prescribe for themselves the possibility of using the electronic functionality of the identity cards. The transitional and final provisions of this Act lay down which identity cards remain in force until the expiry of their validity, which will have to be withdrawn from application after a certain period of time as prescribed by the Regulation. Thus, the identity cards issued under the provisions of the Law on the ID card of 2015, hence the applicable law with a period of validity of 5 years and the identity card issued on the basis of the provisions of the earlier 2002 Law on the ID card with a period of validity of 10 years, so both will be valid until the expiry of the period on which they are located and will not need to be changed. So, from this 2002 Law, someone may have received an I.D. for 10 years in 2013 and won't have to change it. Thus, the ID card issued to persons aged 65 and over without a period of validity under the provisions of the applicable 2015 ID code will cease to be valid on 3 August 2031 and will then have to be replaced by the identity cards issued under the provisions of this Act. Exceptionally, this does not apply to persons who, on 2 August 2021, will be 70 and over because we raise that deadline by this law and these persons will continue to use their identity cards issued without a period of validity even after 3 August 2031. Personal IDs issued without a period of validity under the provisions of the 2002 ID Act will continue to be used by citizens after 3 August 2031 and are not mandatory to replace them with identity cards issued under the provisions of this Act. And finally, I.D. issued without a period of validity under the provisions of the '91 I.D. Act. the year, therefore, of the first Law on Personal IDs in the independent Republic of Croatia, shall cease to apply on 3 August 2026, for the reasons that these ids were without any or most minimum safety standards and were not recommended to continue using them, so it will be valid until 3 August 2026 and five years from the entry into force of the law proposed. In addition to the provisions that ensure the implementation of the amending regulation and the addition of the laws that we propose to you, there are provisions that will allow for the creation of preconditions for the use of the ID card and on mobile devices such as mobiles and tablets, and not just on computers like so far. After the activation of the electronic part of the identity card, citizens will be able to take over a free software solution for mobile devices, i.e. mobile application ID, and will register for previously created access to the portal of electronic identity cards. The appropriate software solution for mobile devices, i.e. the application ID, will then be ready to use and will allow easy login to the e-Citizens system with the highest level of security, as well as a valid electronic signature via mobile phones or through devices where there is no possibility of reading e-IDs so far, such as for example. tablets. This new service or software solution for mobile devices will not be charged additionally. As a result of the application of the regulation, the law will enter into force on 2 August 2021, until then, the necessary sublaws will be adopted as soon as possible and all technical assumptions will be drawn up that the law can enter into force. Therefore, although it is currently another 11 months it is a relatively short period to create all normative and technical assumptions for the direct application of this Regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4979	We have three replicas, so stay. First respected representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4980	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary Klaric. Often changing IDs, I know technology progresses technically it's possible to change it today, but it costs our citizens. The amount of 80 kuna for making, frequent changes mean the cost to the citizens, so I suggest that since citizens have their own ID cards, they will have to change it by changing their new identity to take over the obligation of the state of payment and the card, as much as they have to change and the deadlines are reduced by several years. So here's what I'm doing is I'm making a constructive proposal to change my IDs to take over the state because a lot of people can't change their IDs so many times, every little bit of a change to fill the budget. So here's if you can respect this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4981	I.D.'s being respected, Mr. Representative, for reasons to fill the budget. Currently, if it is a regular procedure, it costs €79.50. Always in transitional provisions, we set maximum usage deadlines especially for older people. The state does not charge administrative fees for this service because it is a mandatory document and it would make no sense and it would not be fair to the citizens. We will consider all options, but modern life, modern technologies require more and more quality and secure documents and documents to access as many services as possible, that means technical improvements that most often require the creation of a new document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4982	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4983	Dear Secretary of State. Tell us, will the same amount of money be for a change of ID as it is on today?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4984	So your question is, is it going to cost a new ID like this one today? That's what we can't tell you at this point, that's what this law is about to make. I only said that it would contain one additional chip with biometric data for each person, so let's say it's more sophisticated, but we hope that both the government of the Republic of Croatia and the authorised designer will find a way not to burden our citizens further.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4985	The last replica of Anka's distinguished representative, Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4986	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State. So there may be some other data in the chip, so my question is, is that is, is that where the data is related to the medical card, related to the driver's license? It would seem that it would make life easier for our fellow citizens, and it would make one step so that we have one card that would be worth more things in the future and perhaps consider allowing Croatia to take a step further in this law until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4987	Dear MPs, we've been thinking about it, and it would certainly be one significant step forward, and that would put the citizens' funds aside for their documents in total, I believe it would also contribute to security. We will do everything to make that decision within this relatively short time period that awaits us until the final draft of the law, so it has already been considered, some projections have been made, but here they have not yet dared to put into this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4988	Thank you. Now we're going to move on to the club debate, the first one is the Club of Representatives Smartly and GLAS, the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4989	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. With this bill we enter in some way into the next stage of the development of an electronic ID card in Croatia. In the last five years, most people have gotten used to the personal chip, and one part of them has been actively using them in those possibilities that they provide. In the meantime, the EU adopted a regulation that sets out further elements for the development of electronic personal as well as for their harmonisation at Union level, which was initially referred to by the proposer. Although it is a regulation that is directly applicable in the Member States as an additional legal framework is needed for the application of this specific Regulation, here we are today discussing this law or amendments to the existing legislation. What is new is that the identity cards will in future contain both facial image and two fingerprints in a digital format and that is one of the key measures that facilitates the correct identification or prevents identity theft. All European bases will be networked into one that should facilitate the use of services and achieve freedom of movement for EU citizens but also make it difficult to manipulate identity and illegal migration. This is particularly important and useful in today’s day when we have on one hand countless digital and online tools that can significantly facilitate life and save time, but it is also unusually important that we can clearly identify ourselves and that our identity is secure and fully protected. What concerns us, or what we think is particularly important, is to ensure full control of the identity card holder over who is being used and how the data on them is used. On the one hand, we really live in one new time, in one digital age, but on the other hand, of course, it can also cause different manipulations and we have to take care of it. Electronic personal data already contain sensitive data today that can be used entirely by someone with our identity and the greatest importance is that at any moment we know who is being used, for what purpose and with what powers. And whenever the data is detected, we have to have information about it and that reading has to be recorded. Our ability to have insight into who is using data from electronic documents is a prerequisite for perhaps the most important step in their development and as I have already said in the replica, in this bill we don't see, but let's believe that by the second reading they'll think about it. So already when we go into changes and additions, it would be good to take a step further at least in terms of the legal possibility of further integration of documents and certificates. The possibilities of electronic documents are almost unlimited, since performing classical administrative work in relations with the state, county, cities or municipalities, also dealings with the Tax Administration, registration, registration and registration of cars, insurance houses, banks, post office, social, pension, health, election vote, ma could really get what could be possible online by tomorrow without having to go anywhere and tow papers if the system of electronic documents is well developed. Unfortunately, these changes and additions aren't used to taking a step further than we could because if we use modern technology capabilities, then we have to start looking at things outside the frameworks that we're given at this point in the regulation. So why couldn't this ID be a driver's license? What is the problem with the fact that it contains information about which categories of vehicle and half of which we can manage? Why don't we go one step further to that ID and driver's license, integrate the health card or the health insurance card? New tools and new technologies allow us to step in the way we use, in this case, it is about documents but it will not be of any real benefit if we use new tools in outdated and unnecessary frameworks of classical bureaucracy. In that sense, it is a pity that these changes and additions have not opened up the possibility of integrating documents in such a way that our daily affairs with the state and all its parts are really getting faster, more skillful and more efficient but I listened carefully to the secretary of state, listened to his answer, so let's hope that between the first and second readings we may take some step, even if legislative. In addition to some details such as the question why the personal need to be physically renewed after 5 years if there is the possibility of an electronic renewal of the certificate, there is nothing particularly controversial in this law why they could not support it. Finally, it is a regulation which is applied directly in the Member States of the European Union, only because of the insurance and implementation, we must... and develop our legal framework. However, once again, we would be happier, it would be easier for us to support this proposal, and we hope to do so in the future if the promoter was willing to take a step further, use new technologies further and make life easier for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4990	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4991	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Of course we'll support that law. I will make some suggestions on how we can improve this law given that the secretary of state spoke about how we should respect EU Parliament's regulations, and I propose that we respect some of the legal provisions that have been adopted at EU level. It is that I will look back here and draw attention to the provisions of Article 2(4) and related to Article 8(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Provisions of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the ID card in the part in which it prescribes a mandatory provider of trust services which is only authorised to issue identification and signed certificates on the identity cards are not in accordance with the law of the European Union governing the protection of competition on the internal market, as this allows for the abuse of the ruling position on the market of the provision of trust services in the Republic of Croatia by one entrepreneur. It is indisputable that the provision of Article 2(4) The proposal for a law amending the Law on the ID card under which each ID card issued to persons from 18 to completed... years contains an identification and signature certificate shall put a legal person authorised to draw up ID cards in the ruling position on the market for the provision of trust services as it allows that legal person to issue several million identification and signature certificates. This enables the legal person authorised to draw up IDs by means of this regulation to provide a significant market power in relation to other trust providers, while other trust providers are disabled by the same regulation in providing their services on the relevant market in relation to the issue of certificates on their identity cards. Such regulation limits the market for the provision of trust services to consumers because, for example, it does not prevent them from issuing on the identity card signed certificates of other authorised trust providers primarily to the Republic of Croatia and, of course, at European Union level, which also satisfy all organisational, technical and security measures for the issue of equally valuable certificates. I will explain a little about the situation currently in the Republic of Croatia with trust providers in our country. Currently in the Republic of Croatia there are 3 authorised trust service providers. Two trust providers are state-owned, one is a company and one is an agency, while one is an authorised trust service provider is one bank, and how much information I have is being prepared by some other companies to become one. The provider of trust services which has the longest experience in providing these services in the Republic of Croatia is a state-owned agency and operates exclusively on the commercial principle in that part of business. It is important to know that the establishment and maintenance of IT infrastructure related to the provision of trust services is very complex, complex, demanding and expensive, and this is also the fact that one service provider has been removed from the list of authorised trust providers and has not provided these services until he has returned after he has again met all certification conditions. The infrastructure needed to provide trust services must function 24 hours a day 7 days a week, or 365 days a year, and this is supported and secured by both providers of these services owned by the State, which is extremely important for legal entities and citizens who use these services. Since one of the most important objectives to be achieved in the next period of information of business processes in state administration bodies and the provision of services to our citizens through digital means, we think it would be advisable to connect, consolidate and optimise all IT infrastructures related to individual services in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the optimized IT infrastructure enables easier flexibility to changing operating conditions, less risky and faster implementation of technological initiatives, effective planning and development of IT, lower costs for Hardware and what is extremely important is a minor interruption in the process of providing services to customers for the sake of better security and accessibility of all systems. This is important to know because when providing individual services by the state, it is possible for citizens to use 21 credentials so far, to see when you are trying to log on to e-citizens and these credentials of different security levels. In view of the above, we believe that the proposed amendments to the Personal Card Act should finally be brought into line with EU law in the part which regulates the provision of trust services by issuing certificates on the identity card, and in particular take the opportunity to consolidate and optimise the IT infrastructure needed to provide these services. There is no legal or real obstacle that these amendments to the Personal Card Act would not allow citizens to decide on a trust service provider whose certificates they wish to have on their ID card and on mobile devices, at least in respect of the signed certification, because the provision of Article 8(3) says that, for the issue of an identity card containing one or two certificates, the applicant is obliged to conclude with the trust provider a trust agreement defining the rights and obligations of both parties. We therefore appeal to make proposed amendments to the bill, and to take an indirect step towards the consolidation and optimisation of IT infrastructures needed to provide trust services, as this small step would at the same time be a major step in the established practice of forming and defining IT infrastructures in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to this bill's proposal, I will draw attention to the article. 5th century 3. The I.D. Act, because I hope and believe that the motioner dropped this item by mistake in the Law amending the I.D. Act. This paragraph reads ‘if personal name or identification number has been changed, the person shall be obliged to request a withdrawal or suspension of the certificate within 2 days of the date of the change’. I know that when it comes to information and digitisation, information systems are also interoperable, and I hope that this is not forgotten and that private islands are currently not being built without links and relationships with other information systems. Therefore, I propose that Article 3. 5. deletes, and that information services are produced which will automatically produce the request in question and send it to the certification service provider without any activity of the citizens or since, according to the current rules, requests for recall must be signed if it is not possible for that part of the regulation to be changed in a way that the request generated by the service to be accepted as well as the signed request, I suggest that Article 3. 5. Change in a way to indicate that the information service will generate the request, and the citizen is obliged to sign the request digitally and send it to the certification service provider. My dear secretary, I hope these proposals will be accepted or at least considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4992	Thank you. The next debate on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4993	I would like to thank Vice-President HS, Mr Katic's esteemed secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs. We have before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ID card which we are actually harmonising with EU legislation. The ID code was the normative basis for the implementation of the electronic ID card project, whose electronic identity card was introduced in the Republic of Croatia. This proposal amends the Law on the ID to be applied from 8 months 2021 is in accordance with the European Parliament's Regulation on strengthening the security of Union citizens and residence documents issued to citizens and exercising the right to freedom of movement. Given the fact that a growing number of citizens today are using digital technologies on mobile devices, the further direction of technology development will certainly require the development of a digital ID card on mobile devices and all together we can call a kind of response to the demand of the modern age in which we live, in which the possibility and speed of data exchange is actually a key element in almost all areas of social life. The paper is that new ID cards will, therefore, have a special chip that will contain biometric identifiers of the person's identity card or facial image and two fingerprints in interoperable digital formats. The above-mentioned Regulation also gave the framework for the period of validity of the identity cards within which Member States are required to set a period of validity for their national identity cards. Member States must also decide on a time limit which will take fingerprints on persons who wish to obtain a ID card, and also within the framework set by the Regulation. A few important things about deadlines. Therefore, the period of validity of the identity cards and certificates containing it shall be 5.g. And as we had the opportunity to hear, the identity card issued to a person of 70 years and over, so there is no period of validity, it was issued to children until the age of 18, contains an identification certificate. The identity card shall be issued to persons from 18 to 70 years of age, containing both the identification and the signature certificate. That Regulation provides that identity cards which do not comply with the requirements of Article 1(1) shall be issued. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Perhaps one of the most important changes to this law is to allow the creation of preconditions for the use of an electronic card and mobile devices, and not only on personal computers or to allow citizens access to electronic services and legitimate electronic signature of documents using mobile phones and tablets. A few words about the identity card in the language and the letter of the national minorities. Members of national minorities have the right to possess a personal ID card in a form that is printed in both minority language and letter with the Croatian language and Latin letter. This possibility shall be granted to members of the Italian, Hungarian, Russian, Slovak, Serbian and Czech minorities as referred to in Article 9(2). Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. According to a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in 2018, a total of 3358 bilingual identity cards were issued. Of these, the largest number were requested by members of the national minorities, slightly smaller members of the Serbian, Italian national minorities, slightly smaller members of the Serb national minority. All in all, this number is not satisfactory, but the reason why members of national minorities do not decide to take bilingual ID cards is the subject of another debate. I'd also like to say something about the current and all the more relevant subject, which is the abuse of personal data. Surely safety standards have changed, and personal and other data protection standards have changed. Also technology and technological leap is so much so that it's actually hard or we barely follow it, and we think that here's actually maybe this kind of amendment of the law, the amendment to the I.D. Act if it refers to an increased level of protection actually welcome. The purpose of the protection of personal data is to protect private life and other human rights and fundamental freedoms in the collection, processing and use of personal data. Article 37 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed to guarantee the security and confidentiality of personal data and that personal data can be collected, processed, used only under the terms of a specific law without the consent of the respondents. It is, of course, prohibited to use personal data contrary to the stated purpose of their collection. Very often we can hear about the theft and misuse of personal data after which financial obligations arise based on contracts that we did not conclude and the costs that we did not actually make. It is often a case of disposing with a photo from a ID card and it is undeniable that the same personal data is possible, enables immediate, direct and unequivocal identification or easy identification of a person. It is also undeniable that personal data once published on the Internet become permanently accessible to a wide, unlimited circle of people, and thus to third or unauthorized persons, as well as to malicious persons. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data as a body responsible for the supervision of the processing and protection of personal data in the Republic of Croatia warns that it is very often faced with an increasing number of cases of misuse of personal data, in particular those for the purpose of the conclusion of subscription contracts for the provision of services. This increase is due to the daily use of new technologies for different purposes in terms of the availability of various online websites for on-line purchases on which, among other things, different types of contractual relations can be concluded. Therefore, in addition to careful behavior when it comes to personal data, each of us needs to be careful and careful about our personal data. Finally, only a few words about the amounts of sanctions for a violation unless the authorised legal person takes technical, personnel and organisational measures to protect personal data necessary to protect personal data from accidental loss or destruction and from unauthorised access, unauthorised changes, unauthorised publication and any other abuses. Given the above-mentioned importance of data protection and data protection, it may be necessary to revise the amounts for those infringements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4994	The next debate here is on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4995	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues, fellow MPs, respected secretary of state, in front of the House of Homeland Movement MPs, we are making our comments on the Amendments and Supplements Act and we are also asking a number of questions that have been raised during the study of the proposal that has been submitted to us. If we go back only a few months, we can remember that the Law on the ID was changed in April this same year for the pandemic of the Coronal Virus. The EU Regulation of 2019, i.e. 1157 of the European Parliament and of the Council on strengthening the security of the personal identity of Union citizens and residence documents issued to citizens of the Union and members of their families who make their free movement effective on 1 August 2019. My first question is why didn't they join a single amendment but we have two changes in the same year if the prime minister calls for savings in the state administration, don't you think the cost is two times in the same year to change the same law? Officials working on it at the ministry go through the same law twice, through the same procedure, spend hours and hours preparing a change then asking for opinions from other ministries, so within the process of inter-resor coordination, spending 100 papers, spending ink, spending printers. Furthermore, it is not clear to us if the said regulation for which access to these amendments applies from 2 August 2021, so only for 1 year why is Croatia in such a hurry? Why is it that, at the time of the economic crisis in the Republic of Croatia, every kuna should be saved access to the cost of the state which will work, as well as the citizens who will pay for those cards. I remind you that we live at the time of the pandemic where your headquarters's recommendations are to limit social contact, but we are forcing people from their houses into the offices of the MUP into no small rows to change their IDs. Could we have waited one year by adopting this bill and then burdened our citizens with new obligations? The proposal for amending the law states that the cards will be valid for five years. Which is why a country with such a weak economy as Croatia, a country that records such a huge drop in GDP, is throwing itself at an additional cost every five years when the regulation itself already gives opportunity and so on. 4. which defines the period of validity of ID cards and says that the shortest period of validity of ID cards is five years and the longest ten years? Why didn't we use the maximum time limit, and the law immediately prescribed that the cards were valid for ten years? In this way, we would reduce the citizens' double cost to just one in every ten years. I also ask the legislator what is the concrete cost to citizens if they change their identity card twice in ten years? Is there somewhere to calculate the cost of making such ID cards and is there equipment for machines to make such cards? If not, what's the cost of getting these machines? I would like to remind you that the Act on the Impact Assessment of the Rules adopted by this Government in 2017 is an article. 12. The previous assessment provides for the determination of between other and direct effects of particularly those of the economic, social, labour market effects, environmental effects, effects on human rights protection and effects on competition. Therefore, on the basis of the above mentioned results, the applicant should have access to a statement on the assessment of the effects of the rules based on Article. 14. It should have been an integral part of the draft of this law, and as such it should have been delivered to the Assembly, with the very proposal of the law for insight. Otherwise, in the House, we actually have a nasty law-making procedure, and I would say illegal law-making procedures, and possibly unconstitutional law-making procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4996	The next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Mario Kapulica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4997	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, the honourable representatives of the motion, the distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us amendments and additions to the law which continues to raise quality, improve the security aspect of our identification documents, and thanks to technological solutions and the availability of services that are available to citizens and which provide public administration bodies. And I am taking this opportunity to congratulate everyone in the MUP who has prepared these changes, but also those who, by their expertise, guarantee the successful implementation of all this which we will apply if these amendments and amendments to the laws are adopted. Right at the beginning, I think it's good to emphasize a few things. First, that the Croatian documents we now have are made in accordance with the highest standards and that the Croatian ID card has been accepted as a high level of security credential for accessing e-services in other EU member states. With these amendments and additions to the law, we guarantee our citizens and allow it to be so in the future. It should also be stressed that the process of issuing ID cards within the EU is possible to Croatian citizens, thanks to the advanced processes in the MUP and the agency involved in the development of all personal identity-related solutions and that the Republic of Croatia allows its citizens an electronic identification document at the lowest price and within the shortest time limits of issue within the EU. It should also be said that the solutions that we are already applying are provided e-service which can be submitted for passport and driver's license and ask for delivery of them at home. The intention of these amendments is to further facilitate the communication of citizens with the state and public authorities, to provide interoperability services with other EU members, to facilitate travel, to reduce the number of counters, but also the times our citizens spend on various administrative jobs, and to contribute to the further development of the digitalisation of the society that our citizens are supporting, which our citizens expect and which are already using abundantly today. During the past period 36 million 359 times, Croatian citizens have accessed various e-services in the e-Citizen system and the minimum number of qualified documents in 2019 is more than 130,000 and in 2020. 569,652 and it is evident that 337% of growth in this short period is seen. All this data suggests that our citizens are very interested in using how the trust service we are talking about here and all the services offered on the e-Citizens system. By adopting the proposed amendments and additions, we will give our citizens not only an identification document because here we are not only talking about the benefits of a state that identifies its citizens through the document but also concrete benefits and benefits of citizens who have this document, so we will give them funds for faster, easier, simpler electronic communication to the state administration in the pursuit of the activities they need in numerous situations of life, than reporting the intention of marriage, the registration of newborns, the submission of passport applications, the driver's license, the request for a tachograph card, the island card, the registration of court files, tax solutions, health insurance, pension and 70 other services we have offered to citizens through the e-citizens system. In the discussions we have in this assembly, we often ask whether the solutions we make are in line with our European environment and the level reached with the most advanced countries. So here's a segment that we can rightly say that we've reached that level, and in some parts we're going to be ahead of. This results from continuous efforts and investments both in people and in infrastructure, knowledge and capacity in people with the specialist skills needed here, which the Croatian state today has. In 2015, an electronic ID card was issued to Croatian citizens, which contains certificates already mentioned, thus identifying and qualified signatories. The biometric data are already on the Croatian passport, and this personal ID upgrade will enable complete travel functionality, facilitate travel with a personal ID card using all advanced technical systems at border crossings and road terminals and increase the safety of personal data in the document. This in practice means that we will be able to ID the users at.../incomprehensible/... or travel terminals at border crossings or that we will not have to stand in line before a border policeman. This, these solutions will continue to allow for a simple application to the system of e-Citizens with the highest security development. The further direction of technology development will certainly require the development of the functionality of the ID card to be used on mobile devices, so we support the technological improvement that this law allows and, above all, qualified signing of documents through mobile devices in a secure manner. I think it is good to briefly refer to the parts of these amendments that the European Regulation leaves to national legislation to write them themselves as the possibility of using electronic functionality of identity cards, period of duration, etc., which are on the trail of the best European solutions, as well as creating a basis to enable the integration of the functionality of the personal and health card already mentioned behind this speaker. The following data are also important to Croatian citizens. The documents issued pursuant to the provisions of the 2015 Act with a period of validity of 5 years and an identity card issued under the provisions of the earlier law of 2002 with a period of 10 years shall be valid until the expiry of the period and shall not be amended. Cards issued to persons aged 65 or more without a period of validity under the provisions of the 2015 Act shall cease to apply in August 2031. This is not particularly true of persons who will be 70 or more on August 2, 2021. The documents issued without a period of validity under the 2002 law will continue to be used by the citizens after 3 August 2031 and are not mandatory to replace them with the identity cards issued under the provisions of this Act. Cards issued without a period of validity under the provisions of the law of '91. It's not until August 3rd, '26. and persons are obliged to replace them with identity cards issued under the provisions of this Act for reasons which do not contain minimum safety standards. Finally, the emergence of global security challenges such as terrorist attacks and the strengthening of illegal migration, as well as the increasing digitalisation that poses a threat to the theft of electronic identity and the introduction of a common European electronic interoperability system is rapidly changing the trend in creating a legislative and regulatory framework for identification, identification documents throughout Europe. With model A which, in the good part of the Western European states, did not foresee the obligation of a personal identity card as an identification document and which missed the making of ID cards to bodies of the lower state government and private companies, things are changing and going in the direction of the model that Croatia already has. Over the last 8 years, larger EU countries changing their regulatory framework have done so in a very similar way by creating a new common hybrid model. Croatia participates in this in the most excellent way. The HDZ advocates' club will support this law, which we call on both the other representatives and representatives of this high house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4998	The next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u4999	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, here's a change of cards, we follow the trend of technology, they say, and that's good. However, I hope that if we are already changing the cards that our citizens will get together in the package and the Law on Electronic Voting so that finally this full digitalisation will come to life and that finally our citizens are mainly emigrated by bad policies in Ireland, Germany we said 6% of the GDP of the Republic of Croatia from the evicted people who have been evicted for the past 20 years to other countries. So, no less than 20 billion kunas send us people from abroad who lived here, worked and planned to live, but now they're sending money to their families, parents, so I hope that they get the chance to get rid of the problem once and for all so that they can vote, too, so that our people, mostly young people, who went gunned down by politics, to all of us, get the opportunity to vote, too. However, there is no mention, it is important, they change, we comply with European directives, regulations, there will be a chip, we will have two fingers on, on the card, and it is important that, as you said, citizens will pay 79 kuna and these changes, it will go so, so here I would suggest that because of that personal citizens have nothing at that moment, this state, I think they said so on the board yesterday in a broader debate, even from the ruling majority that it would be good not to appoint a representative now, he is there, that the state assumes the obligation to pay these frequent changes of personal documents in this case. So, and priory we're not against advanced technology that allows easier identification, we have a chip, we're going to have a reader, we're going to have some kind of server that's going to give feedback to what he's reading, and so, but frequent changes and changes in people are going to revolutionize, but it turns out that we're just filling the budget for someone. With all this talk that my predecessors told all the time, it goes on the burden of the citizens, I don't think it's acceptable. The French State, otherwise, when changing documents, I quote, pays its citizens, its residents the costs. Here's one of our proposals here is, if you can appreciate, if you can, other EU members, so it's not populism, you say it's populist, it's often law-changes, it's often document-changes, it's what our employees do. In addition, we have a problem that our citizens cost it, it costs it, believe me that in rural areas, even in Zagreb, is it even in larger cities where there are several members of the family of the elderly that it can cause problems, but I think it would be the obligation of the state, it would be a frequent change. Of course, I don't know why we have some frequent changes when we can electronically change it, in chips, if there's a chip in it, this data is being inserted, so that, we have servers, we have devices, we know that technology is progressing, but I would once again tell our colleagues here that there are only certain things that are either an EU command or we want to show that we're following digitalisation. But that's not true, I'm sorry that MOST's proposal didn't go through with us taking full advantage of democracy that we have an electronic vote. If we can in the assembly of parliamentary deputies, which is correct, which are in self-insulation for other reasons, I know that the thin majority is and that it takes 76's hand, otherwise that the larger most would not have passed if you had, that you could vote with video link. I don't see any reason why the electronic voting when we're changing cards, so it's already all on the chip, it's all known, the number, you can get a PIN for, for a cell phone, you vote lipo from your cell phone, very simply, throw it all out, it's so simple, but you don't want it. You don't want because the ones you moved out don't want to vote, the policies have moved them out, that's the truth and the fact. And I'm sorry to say this again, and I've been on several occasions over the last term. A number of occupiers have passed these areas, Croatia's history is unfortunately conditioned that which the occupier was in any area, from Turks, we can go before that, but we can go from Austria, Napoleon, Hungary, all those who were in these areas, Serbs, fascists, Nazis, communists, but never this far has been a demographic downturn and there has never been this much disappointment between us by the people who are also heroes of this war and who took part in the Homeland War. We fought to be full of Croatia, that every man has the right to vote. I'm asking a question, if we're talking about a personal document, a personal ID, why don't we use this very simply, we see the crown crisis all can, we don't need to ask for a stamp from the office to the office, this, this keeper of the agricultural stamp, this guardian for, for cows, this for sheep, so the seas were, it can all mean electronically, the coronary crisis has shown it. It has shown all the shortcomings and concerns of investment in the public sector and relief for entrepreneurs and citizens and for stopping our people from leaving, it is the previous topic. I'll be asking a question here as long as I eat I fought for democracy with a number, with people who are here among us. No matter, he was in the SDP, he was in the Homeland Movement, the Most, HDZ. I'm going to ask that question why modern technology isn't allowed for people to go out and vote in the election. That's what I'm asking us with the parliamentary question, to our parliamentary representatives. In the last term, my club MOST proposed it, but neither the SDP nor the HDZ supported it. Which are the reasons I don't know. Here, counterpart Bacic will know better, he was also the president of the club's past term. This is why I call you once again if you can, because of the frequent changes in your ID card and ID documents, if France can pay for the changes to its citizens as EU members, this time Croatia also allows its citizens to do so, not to change their ID cards exclusively to fill the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5000	Thank you. We are going to individual debates, the first respected representative is Franco Vidovic. He's gone, he's losing his right. Next debate, distinguished representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5001	My colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Secretary of State. I will remain in this debate only on three concrete proposals or suggestions, not on general provisions and purposes and the meaning and reasons of this law. The identity card shall contain the electronic data carrier as defined in this law on which they are stored first, the identity of the card holder in the digital format i.e. Biometric identifiers and two certificates, an identification certificate for access to electronic services and a list certificate for support to electronic signature replacing the power signature. Art. 4. contains the following provisions, the period of validity of the identity cards and certificates containing five years. Paragraph 4 of this Article shall contain an identification and signature certificate issued to persons from 18 to 20 years of age. A person with 70 years of age who results in an identity card containing certificates with the expiry date of the certificate may continue to use his or her identity card, but will not be able to carry out electronic confirmation of his or her identity or will be able to use it to produce an advanced electronic signature. So the point is, the period of validity of the identity card is five years, the five-year deadline is conditioned by today's technology with current or alleged inability to update certificates without replacing ID cards. It would be rational not to bind the period of validity of the identity card for the period of validity of the certificate, in particular the identification certificate for access to electronic services. I don't see any reason why the identity card couldn't be valid for more than five years, biometric identifiers don't change, and the signed certificate shouldn't change either. Persons who are not interested or who do not have the need to use a signed certificate shall not be obliged to change their identity card every five years and after the expiry of the valid certificate. Finally, the law provides for this possibility already and now for persons over 70 years of age, so it should set a period of validity of an identity card for at least five years, meaning at least ten years, because it is precisely biometric identifiers in digital form that allow longer periods of validity, not shorter. It is precisely technology that should enable us to have a permanent card in due course when this technology is able to provide. Another important question, and today it is already mentioned that the cost-price question is the burden of paying for these new cards or all the cards. Cards of an identification document which does not achieve any material benefit, with this argument of a country do not charge the issuing of ID cards to its citizens. It would be advised to consider that the state is carrying out the cost of making ID cards, which would have a number of positive effects. It is difficult to list them all now in this time, but given the current economic situation, it can also be decided that the state will bear the costs of the identity card for certain categories of citizens, whether it is citizens with small incomes or it would be a good gesture to give cards to those who first receive that card so that it is one in some way a solemn act when a person becomes a minor or older and gets that card. A special question that I can't elaborate here right now because the card is also about this provision of residence and destination, I think it's an outdated provision that should be amended because it brings far more benefits to that change than these differences impose on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5002	Thank you. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The next item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 10 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 10. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5005	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has the power to regulate certain issues by regulations at a time when HS does not meet, when HS has the expiry of the mandate or when HS is disbanded. These are exceptional powers which are used only in the exact law of those terms. As regards constitutional restrictions, Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall apply. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia provides for restrictions which cannot be adopted by the Regulations. Here, above all, it refers to the State budget, tax regulations, human rights, fundamental freedoms, electoral regulations and issues concerning the legal regulation of the situation in local self-government units. As to why we propose this law on December 10, 2020, the one-year deadline expires. This law has a period of one year, since it comes out in December, the Croatian Parliament should therefore accept this law. We also propose, by the proposed law, that the regulations adopted on the final date of 20 August, which are the Regulation amending the Law on Health Protection, the Regulation amending the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of fines of money, the Regulation amending the Law on Social Welfare, the Regulation supplementing the Law on Education in Primary and High Schools, the Regulation amending the Law on the List of Agriculture, the Regulation amending the Law on Islands and the Regulation on the Completion of the Law on Sports; which should be valid until 30 November 2020, that this law provides for the duration of these Regulations until 30 November 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5006	Thank you. We have one replica. Please, Secretary of State, we have one replica, come here. Here you go, ma'am. Councilwoman Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5007	Dear Secretary of State, here, I only have one question, and it applies to this article. 1 in which it states that under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Government may regulate the Regulations of the HS in the period from 15 December 2020 to 15 January 2021 and from 15 July 2021 to 15 September 2021. We're here on September 3rd, and we're here and wondering what happens when the Parliament sits with extraordinaryness? Who makes those decisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5008	Dear MPs, you have now read the dates of the HS constitutional session. It's that summer session, so you have a break and a winter session. So, this regulation lasts for a year, legal powers, and in exceptional situations, so when Parliament doesn't sit, what you said, Parliament can be disbanded, Parliament can expire its mandate, and then the government, to make the system work, just exactly with the constitutionally established situations, which I said, not the State budget, not the electoral regulations, not the tax regulations, generally the economic issues, these regulations that I've read have been passed, you're doing more or less about the coronary situation when the government intervened, therefore, because of the urgency of the situation. So this is an extraordinary power, not to bypass HS, but to cover this constitutional void when HS is not in session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5009	Thank you. We're going to the clubs. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5010	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretaries, state secretaries of the Ministry of Justice, the biggest problem of Croatian society, it is the judiciary, and the HS when handing over its powers to the government, then must know that it is leaving part of it, means it delegates legitimacy to the government, I do not trust this government, nor will I vote to delegate powers to the government, and I can state a number of reasons. For example, who asked, our Croatian Parliament on the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia? They're in debt, when they're in debt, even the champagne this toast of billions of Republics, we're over-indebted, we've been brought to the brink, we know, about who's talking, but it's a fact. So whoever asks HS, I mean, we've been chosen as the center of power to decide. The Croatian people have chosen us as their envoys to represent them. I for this proposal, however much as he may be, have not voted for this yet, no matter how much he may be, would have watched him however you please, as we will legitimateize part of the power. So why would I legitimize powers, when I ask Prime Minister Plekovic, he does not want to answer, I am a parliamentary representative. As far as I know, the government comes from the Parliament, i.e. from the MPs. Therefore, there is no problem changing the Constitution either, and this summer and winter break, if not necessary, it is not necessary, the term takes four years, one has been somewhat shorter and this last few months, one has been really short, the one in 2016 and I believe that this Parliament should return to be the center of power to decide, to think, to share various views, to propose, not exclusively, to send you here, the secretary of the ministry, the secretary of state and to say here, the government will take power, I know that they have most, 76 hands and those who are in isolation, it is done for them. They even came to vote as a colleague of Hrebac here, no matter what time of storks, the man who fertilized the vineyard, the fertilising vineyard or the field, the oran, 5, 6 km away from it, came to him the punishment of 8 thousand kunas, and our colleague, the council representative, who is in self-insulation, is not worth what your doctor gave you down, but whether you sign it or not, that you can come to vote. That's what this government comes from, that's what this government comes from. Of course, that this government is glad to give pitet to all the victims, but I can't give legitimacy to the government who on the day they go to Grubore, which is their right, is it, okay all, if the victims, the victims, who have nothing to do with the Storm, it is, there is a crime everywhere that that day was attacked by Vrlik, Kijevo by the Serb youth who slaughtered, burned, I was then in the rebatins the guy was in that area so I know who were the strong and the screams. People in Vrlica, a little girl, there we have a home for children with developmental difficulties with severe difficulties, they were left there, captured, harassed but no one mentioned six deaths in that fight, even two were in Sinj, the first military were then attacked in the area of the Republic of Croatia to reach weapons. Nobody mentions that. Why should I trust the government when I make my proposal that is partially appreciated that we have Peace Day the day Dr. The shretcher that Milorad Pupovac, the coalition partner who knows everything and who holds the majority. I gave it in the last term and it went partly to be called Peace Day, but they took down Dr. Schreter. Yesterday, colleague Caroline spoke of it, and I'm asking the whole term from the State's Attorney's Office to the Parliament here, Milorad when he was Milorad Pupovac I asked that... because of the people, because of the family, where are the bones of Dr. I wish I could light a candle for their family members, his colleagues. But here we are talking about a hero, not a hero who, like, burned but who urged people of Serbian nationality not to attack each other that they were his brothers. And no one wants to say it. He had an obligation to Milorad Pupovac to say it, but he's part of the government now. So they even want to forget this part of what Ratko Mladic attacked Vrlika and Kijevo in the direction of Sinj, has done so much damage that he occupied her afterwards, now these days will celebrate the attack on Peru when Peru was won, mined Peru. The biggest crime he tried to commit after II. The World War II ecocid and genocide, it was mined, but if it had worked it would have been that genocide, down to Omis would have gone from the Sinj field and the Ecocid, no one would have talked about it. Even Ratko Mladic is being tried, no one has even sued him for making it in a top-notch area. Yeah, it's a Chetnik clean, criminal Ratko Mladic helped with domestic Chetniks, not just so-called. JNA. And why should I give some powers when no one will come, the secretary of state seems to me to be Vukic, even the media was not accompanied by that significant day, the hardest day for Kijevo, which was a symbol of resistance. You know Jura Stublic sang a letter about Kiev and Krushev, so it was a symbol of resistance, it was our inspiration to fight. And now, what do I support, what economic measures will you bring, what economic measures? Here I ask my colleague Bačić why there was no or all of you, why no one came from the senior prime minister's officials, the deputy in Sinj lined up the army and said here the gentlemen here were the first military attacked, only in Sinj the late Luka Erceg and Ivan Cumber, the first officer of Luka Erceg, the first member of the company of the brigade to die, and five others died in a high-level area, no one at all. Don't change history, don't let the Vučić Chetnik write you a history, don't assign a state without the knowledge of the Parliament, don't make disastrous decisions. My club and I didn't vote for headquarters to have these powers, the only club that's here right now in Parliament or the others weren't even the ones who weren't and you're turning this into a dictatorship, you're turning history around. Remember those days of the start of the Homeland War, of course we honor all victims, but the Ministry of Justice has come here and tells us to give our powers to the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Why? For the V.E. in Padjena near Knin where you have shaken away billions, which was of course brought by Milanovic's government i.e. Vrdoljak later coalition partner on renewable energy sources, HDZs where billions are sucked out of their pockets. Not just here at the wind power plants, instead of using our sun and making good decisions that we're energy independent, to protect our waters, to protect the dignity of the origins and the dignity of the Homeland War, to protect our worker, our peasant, to talk about security and to be safe, to send our army if it's threatened at the border of people to the border to help the police, that law exists, you don't want it. You don't want to, although in Kamensk a few days ago, I repeat, illegal migrants captured an old man 87 years ago with a gun, a silencer and 3.4 hours ago they gave him away through the woods, an older man, and we have a legal opportunity for the army to be on the border. And nobody's doing anything, we're just boasting security, they're talking about that security, and 2/3 of Croatia is empty. I can't trust this government if in the last term I've asked countless times to ban the sale of agricultural land, you don't want, if I asked for water as a basic human right in the Constitution, you don't want it, so you don't want anything at all. So why would I give this government a parliamentary representative so the people here choose my trust? So we'll vote against this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5011	Next is the SDP Representatives' Club and the distinguished representative Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5012	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The Government's power to regulate certain issues from the HS section is passed every year at the fall session and we can say in substance that the copy paste version of the law since last year or before. Although it is unusual for the opposition, we believe that this law can go in one reading. We propose to the Proposer that in Art. In the final proposal, the law stipulates that the Regulation supplementing the Law on Education and Education adopted by the Government in 28.5.2020 ceases to apply to 30.4.2020 in order to allow the matter she arranged in HS to be discussed by the end of the next school year. Since it is the first reading of the SDP Representatives' Club, it will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5013	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Krunoslav Katičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5014	The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I will, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, point out that we will support the law in question, but we just want to build a few views of our party on this matter. ... As the State Secretary of State has also said, the legislative foothold in question is in the provision of Article. 88. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which allows the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate the issues in the area of this esteemed home. It is also accompanied by an appropriate solution to the constitutional court which is there, the legislation has been confirmed. Legal terminology means a legislative delegation which, in a certain way, has become a legal standard in the Croatian legal system. And although it's a very short legislative proposal that contains only 6 provisions, it's a matter of fundamental importance, so we're still going to... some other facts that matter. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is, therefore, a legislative proposal which is clearly timed, clearly indicated the area to which it relates, i.e. the same regulation clearly indicated which is not transmitted in the section. It is about the rules regarding the state budget and what is directly prescribed that it is in the jurisdiction of HS. It is important to stress that this legislative proposal and a provision in practice are very restrictively used. So in the next period, everything has been done since 7 times the regulation in question has been used and this provision has been used in legislation, in cases where in some ways it has gone in favour of enabling citizens and facilitating some legislative frameworks that they have at the time and could have significant adverse consequences for them themselves, such as for example. The law on the execution of money funds or on the Law on Social Welfare which has been deregulated means the possibility to postpone the repayment of the loan or regulate the birth benefits to a higher amount than was prescribed by the law. This is important for this reason, because at that point, if a full procedure were to be carried out, as provided for by the Law on the Assessment of the Impact of the Rules for citizens, it would take a considerable amount of time and at some point would not be a quick and effective solution. I would also like to emphasise that the very importance of this home is further emphasized in a way that is referred to in standard procedure, meaning what it means in two readings, it just means that it gives importance to this esteemed assembly and that I repeat, it is restrictively used. For the end of the day, the counsel club will support this provision and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5015	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. He's the first respected, distinguished representative of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5016	I'm aware there's no light cameras, there's a light camera tomorrow, but this is a very important topic. Indeed, we Parliamentarians must restore the integrity of HS. Who's the one that can make decisions on behalf of us? Is it those who do not want to protect our seas, to declare IGP, to protect our flora, our fauna, because it requires even the European Council, the Council of Europe, to ask us to even, we have the right to international law of 1982.? Do those who do not want to protect our water, our forest, protect our agricultural land? Is it those who don't want to vote electronically, that our every citizen, especially those who have poor policies moved out so they can get the ability to vote? The General Assembly must be a key institution of decision-making. I know the government needs regulations, but that government when it comes here, and when it answers our questions, you'll see, in the past term, I've been in charge of some questions that according to the Rules of Procedure, the assembly we're working on, within 30, I've waited half a year to answer my questions. So much government care towards the assembly and so much mockery with the assembly is amazing is raising your ratings to yourself and directing all your potential and money to the pyr by representing yourself as someone above the assembly is a lie. Above the assembly in the Republic of Croatia is only God and no one else, and we parliamentary representatives are those who must not be allowed to be there on the other side of Mark’s square, St. Mark's being mocked by us. With so much arrogance, with so much towards the assembly, according to the parliamentary representatives in the answers to the questions, you have seen the manner in which the representatives of the Croatian government behave, I repeat, the Croatian government stems from HS and we are, exclusively, our responsibility in our short term of office for 4 years, but it does not have to be so much of our decision, and whoever supports the regulation to decide in essence, he has given the government legitimacy so that they are in charge of not knowing how much, that he is making harmful decisions on national security such as energy security, I repeat the renewable energy source. Well, we can't just let the Parliament come at this point by someone from the Justice Department and they'll say look, we'll bring that regulation because the Parliament has a break, with the Constitution prescribed summer and winter. Well, there doesn't have to be a break. Here they are transferred, the Parliament transferred all powers to the Civil Protection Headquarters in the last term. Well, look what he's doing. Look what's done. I just said an example, a farmer, while he's fertilizing the country, receiving a sentence, must be in isolation, and if he hugs the prime minister there with an example. With this, he touches this Djokovic, the tennis player, it's okay, but he went away, which he shot, he went into isolation and the prime minister, which was taken by Djokovic, so it's, or let's say, normally that with our famous singers he hugs and kisses his hand, it's published on Instagram by Minister Beroš, but write to us 2 m MPs, you can't be near each other, you can't, so stop, what is this behavior? What kind of messages are these to an ordinary man? And I said an eclectic example of where the man was in isolation, that's our fellow parliamentary representative, Dario Hrebac, whom the doctor said he must be in isolation, but there was a headquarters, said "you can vote", come here among us Parliament and vote and put us here in masks, be 3 meters from each other, 2 meters, wash your hands, wait outside the desert, I mean, look. Why would they give me their legitimacy to one such government that disrespects the parliamentary representatives chosen by the people? And I repeat, the government comes from the Parliament. I personally won't accept this, nor do I have the right mainly because of those who chose me here, if I acted as the government behaves, I certainly wouldn't have been chosen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5017	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5018	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, will forgive me without any patheticness, but I feel little emotional responsibility here while I am standing in front of you and now running down from my club here to the assembly room, I stopped and looked at the statue of A. Starčević and photographed that I am not wrong and wrote there "The right is not only good for a man but it is a condition for every good. The man who deserves to be a representative of the people must know the wishes and aspirations of his constituents and of them to the whole nation." As Bridgers, we cannot support any laws that in any way take away the legitimacy, importance and responsibility of this place. As Bridgers, we cannot support anyone, nor can we support the current government, who in any way, regardless of perfidence, regardless of the game of the occult, is trying to seize the power of this place. Parliament, we all know what it means, Parliament is that place directly represented by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we stand here, we get power from the Croatian people, the government is elected from the Parliament and it is therefore unusually important that the Parliament does not lose its importance. As long as we have to represent ourselves, we'll meet, we'll have meetings, committees, whatever it takes. If we have to, we won't even have summer breaks, if we have to, you don't have to give us winter breaks, but don't take away the importance of this place. I also see that certain currents and certain forces in our society are constantly working on the diphthamation of different thinking, I think it's important that no matter what political option we belong to, everything that we can do more together, we're a small people, 3 million and 800,000 of us are, we're divided, of course we have the legitimate right to have the world's horizons we want, of course we belong ideologically to one story or another, but we have so much in common that we share us and we should not allow certain currents to be concrete and very clearly working on the division of our small people. In this regard, I want to make it clear here, they have asked me many of the last days how to support the Festival of Freedom that will happen here in Ban Jelačić Square. I always stand by my people and I will always stand by those people, no matter what they may disagree with their way of thinking, with their worldview and the world view but I will defend their freedom to say what they want, that they have the right to send the messages they want and that they are free citizens of this country. This freedom, here forgive me, I only recognize my colleague Mira Bulja but I know that many of you were Croatian defenders, Croatian defenders have made it possible for us to lead with the first Croatian president Dr. F. Tudjman and because Croatian defenders have given us freedom, we do not have the right to diphrase others today because they think otherwise, and therefore I will come to hear what these other citizens think, I will come to hear what messages they bring, and we know well that there is a huge noise of communication going on, today I have already spoken. We know very well that now, for example. Dr. David who performs on behalf of the World Health Organization comes and says now we see a Swedish model is the correct model, but ideas, and a few weeks and months ago everyone criticized that Sweden. What's going on in our country? If we can even make different arguments, different attitudes, support from arguments that we are not exposed to any discrimination, that we are not put on the margins just because many of us still want to be free citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5019	Dear Representative Miro Bulj, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5020	Thank you very much. My colleague Miletic is very clear that this is something that the Assembly MPs shouldn't support. How to support a government that did not take the key measures when the trial was apart from stoning and confusing the people, for example why it did not bring a moratorium to interest and loans so that our businessmen could submit these measures or why the law is now, here is the State Secretary who was also in the past term, why they are returning and returning to the public notebooks, and in the last term they spoke before the elections even in the first reading, this government said they would throw out public notebooks. Now you're returning the public notebooks. For what? So that government absolutely the Croatian Parliament, the parliamentary representative, the MP must not allow it. That is why we must all support the right of parliamentary deputies to be above, above the Croatian government Because it's a fact. [[Intruder: Time.]] Only God is above the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5021	And the people of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5022	Can I speak to you, Mr. Vice President?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5023	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5024	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Miro Bulj. I think it's very important that we don't forget the most vulnerable in our society, the most needed. Among other things, it's a huge number of thousands and thousands of people who have been executed, it's those people whose interest is gripping their backs, their work, and these people are really wondering how they'll survive the fall, what's going to happen to them, and that's why we're familiar with you, dear colleague Bulj, we're proposing not some kind of delay, but moratories and credits, moratories to all those financial things that many Croatian citizens won't be able to take on their backs. We know according to the current bill, or according to the law that the citizens are told we won't throw you out on the street during the winter, great, I guess we'll wait until spring to come and then end up on the street.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5025	Thank you. You're free.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5026	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5027	On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5028	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, I have a short need to clarify two things. First of all, when the Government makes decisions on the basis of legislative powers by the Croatian Parliament, the Government is obliged to notify parliamentary legislators of the regulations it has adopted under the legal authority after the regulation has been adopted. In addition, given that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is adopted 2/3 of the majority, it is known how long it is necessary for MPs to adopt a certain constitutional provision. So for public understanding no matter who follows this or not, Article 88 of the Croatian Constitution stands, the Croatian Parliament may, for the most part, authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in its work, except those relating to the development of the Constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, establishment, part-line and way of working of state bodies and local self-government. In addition, regulations under the legal authority cannot act backwards. Regulations adopted on the basis of the legal authority shall cease to apply within a period of one year from the date of receipt of the power unless the Croatian Parliament decides otherwise. So everything is always in the hands of the Croatian Parliament. Since MP Miletic is a young colleague, Mr Bulj, who was with us once and in the government of the Republic of Croatia until you left the government and this government passed regulations based on legal authority, so you didn't say anything at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5029	Thank you. Replica Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5030	Well, I'll start at the end. The only parliamentary representative since '90s. The year that was like most, who voted against the government's budget, was me personally. Personally, you know that very well. And you're like a man, I don't know how many votes you've been elected to the Croatian Parliament, as a good man and trusted by Jadranka Kosor, later on I don't know Branimir Glavas, now who you are, Andreja Plenkovica, you won't judge about what you're doing with that government representative of me because you have no right to do so. I can tell you that the judiciary in Croatia is the biggest problem. And since you've been running it, there's an even bigger problem, which is why young people leave the economy because of judicial uncertainty and mistrust, it's going down. It's my right to tell you. It's not an insult, it's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5031	Your honourable representative is the right to speak in the Croatian Parliament according to the Constitution, it is my right to answer you to explain to the citizens what the Croatian Constitution says in Article 88 about the legal powers of the Government under the laws and constitution that the Government can adopt when the assembly is not sitting, and you always use the opportunity to speak about how I entered the Croatian Parliament. I follow you, I know all about you, I know about your ministers, and don't deceive the public, you didn't leave the government, but you were expelled from the Croatian government. And also when you are counting votes to the MPs, you did not boast how many votes you received in the European Parliament elections when you did not get a single term. That's why Grandma's in the woods, Grandpa's in the road.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5032	Injury of Rules of Procedure Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5033	Well, Mr. President, you have violated the Rules of Procedure because you allow the boasting of government representatives to speak falsely. I've got nothing less or less about 10,000 more than you chairing the vote together with Mr. Salapic So you can't take me. [[/Intruder: Which article?]] So you can't tell me, he can't count my votes from that pay phone, he has no right to behave arrogantly, he has to do his job as Secretary of State, which he doesn't do, which is why the state here is di, Mr. Sanader. [[/Intruder: Which article is Miro?]] That's why the Croatian state is falling apart, so let's count the votes you got when [[Good. Considering...]] was Jadranki Kosor godfather or godfather [[Intruder: Miro.]] I don't know what. [[Intruder: Miro.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5034	I give a warning because you did not call on the article and it was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Next individual debate... Dear Representative Erik Fabianic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5035	Dear Vice President of the House, Your Honor. There are several regulations by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. No matter how much we can always divide into two species, no matter how much we call it. Always, anything can be dangerous, but it can be useful. We are today discussing the regulations passed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on behalf of the Croatian Parliament, so there is the Government, in fact the Government at that moment is a surrogate of the Parliament, is it not? And that's one kind of regulation, which certainly shares or shares the responsibility of the government, one necessary instrument, is important that there is a good instrument that we can control. And it can worry. But there is even more to worry about, one other kind of regulation, which is one of the regulations which the law essentially requires the Government to regulate certain, to elaborate a certain legal act. So there are always laws that say that then the government will do something about implementing certain rules. Well, I got caught up in this second part, and my intensity is from this very place to call the government and get out of the topic a little bit, and I can see that my predecessors are out of the picture, but I'm going to stick to the subject of the government's regulation. But not government regulations to replace the Parliament. If it is related to something that is in our possession, unfortunately extremely current because by the figures, I am not sure that the pandemic in the Republic of Croatia has been kidnapped, and it is about the fact that we may still have to activate not only the active composition of civil protection, but also mobilize, or receive volunteers. Now we come specifically to the scale of the regulation itself. The amendments and additions to the rules on income, the untaxable part of the daily living, and for civil protection and public services, were raised from 170 to 200 kuna in that non-taxable part, thus bringing all standards in line. All norms and collective agreements related to public activity, in some cases to private ones, which relate not only to journals but also to mileage, i.e. travel expenses. Except in one case. This is a government regulation on how and conditions for the exercise of the material rights of members of civil protection units during participation in civil protection activities. According to that Regulation adopted at the meeting of the Government on 6 April 2017, the daily of those members of civil protection, who also worked this spring during the pandemic, is not 200 kuna, as a colleague from the active establishment, but 150 kuna. And it's still in effect. Why? Because the Civil Protection Act is in Art. 45th is determined to regulate that part by a government regulation. It doesn't matter what we're talking about here, but here it is. I call on the Government to adopt a new regulation and to put an end to this inequality between the active composition and the mobilised composition or volunteers in civil protection. That's not much of a cost, because depending on who mobilizes them, whether it's a unit of local self-government, county or state, everyone carries their share of the cost of increasing. But I think these people deserve it. And this debate I'm giving to them, and I also want to thank you for everything they've done and unfortunately for the effort that will have to be given again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5036	Next individual debate, distinguished representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5037	Thank you very much, Vice-President of HS, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The law that we bring to Parliament today is an effective and rapid reaction to the life that is happening to us, to situations that we cannot plan under these circumstances. The acceleration of procedures and the adoption of certain measures is exclusively directed towards more effective and effective assistance to our citizens. The government's authority to regulate certain issues in the HS's section under the now applicable law given to the government will cease within the constitutional time limit of the date of entry into force, which is 10 December of this year. Under this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will obtain the authority that, during a period during which HS does not regularly meet, and exceptionally, during the period when HS is dissolved or its term of office, the regulations regulates the issues of current economic policy in the HS area, respecting the material and time limits set forward. Art. 1st of this Act is authorised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate the current economic policy issues of the HS, with the exception of the amendment of the State budget and the tax regulation and those issues which, under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, only the HS may regulate in the period from 15 December 2020 to 15 January 2021 and from 15 July '21. September 15, '21. Mr Government of the Republic of Croatia shall, at each meeting of the HS, submit a report on the regulations adopted pursuant to the mandate between the two meetings of the HS and at the first meeting of the newly elected HS, submit a report on the regulations adopted from the date of submission of the last report concluded on 20 August 2020 under the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues contained in the HS. Seven regulations have been passed, and I'm not going to list them now because my predecessors, and the state secrets here, have listed them. On the basis of the legal authority, the Regulations may not act backwards and they shall cease to be valid during the expiry of the period of one year from the date of the power granted unless the HS decides otherwise. The proposal for the adoption of this law is justified by the fact that the regulations adopted on the basis of the legal authority cease to apply for an expiry of one year, and of course, unless HS decides otherwise, and I support and welcome this technical law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5038	Wait, we have one replica, the distinguished representative Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5039	Your Honor, I'd like to ask you if you could give me two, three examples of regulations or decisions that the government can make under this regulation? You said what he couldn't bring, but tell me by heart what he could bring?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5040	What can it bring? Well, it can bring in, like, when.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5041	Not what he writes, but a concrete example.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5042	Don't argue, you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5043	I have already noted that the government has adopted the 7th regulation by August 20th of the latest report, so it brings all that does not concern the state budget, taxes, then human rights, fundamental freedoms, national minorities and all that I have already listed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5044	Let's move on, finally on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, the distinguished representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5045	I'd like to warn the i.e. one more time. I would tell all of us if we didn't have the right to give power to the legal government, is that, above all, I can talk about 10,000 preferential votes that I have received from my constituents, citizens that I have no right to do so. I have no right to do this for several reasons because I am three times elected to this House alone on the list without any coalition, not as in the case of a respected secretary and therefore the Ministry of Justice is the biggest problem in society. So why? By the time the Bridge appeared, it was impossible to imagine that there would be extraordinary elections. Yeah, we were in most of it, but after three months, it was an extraordinary election, because we were protecting it. Well, you can't give INA to the Hungarians just like that, you can't take Jozo Petrovic to lead me, so I didn't come here because I'm a man from Sinj from the village of Suhača, so you'll be driving me with those games then. You went to an extraordinary election for the first time, for the first time, and who knows when it'll happen again. After three months we came here 12, 15 as long as it was in those games and we went to elections there's no problem. But we can't and we don't have the right. Here's Mr. Bartholic, HDZ has brought down his Prime Minister Tihomir Oreshkovic, who brought down his own, that's true, to give up Karamark later, this as state secretary... a little with Sanader, I went with him, with Kosorica great. That... That's why he later saw the HDSSB grow then it's good,...all good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's not politics. I don't have to be here, I'm only as proud as the ordinary man from the village of Suhača near Sinj three times I've been elected on the list of bridge independent lists and that's what I have to protect. I have to protect the integrity of this House. That's what I'm warning you, and I won't give you that support, I won't. You can disrespect us from the government, you can insult us, but I won't do it to you, I won't. Is the judiciary, just sent you, the main cause of both demographic and economic decline in the Republic of Croatia. So for 10 years, 20 convictions haven't been passed yet, people fail because of you, companies fail, people can't invest, and our Croats outside don't want to invest when legal uncertainty is absolute. That's what you're dealing with, that's what you're dealing with, not... here says Miro Bulj that I was in most of it, but I voted against the budget and then the government fell. They weren't hoping, they thought some from the village of Suhachi was a peasant, so that's what we're going to do with games. But it happened to you then and since then, new groups of political groups have appeared and let democracy spread to them. I don't have a problem with that, but we're in a big long-term problem. Why are you in trouble? Because you who have no power to protect, I would give you confidence, personally without any problem if you as Slovenians gave, here is not far, moratorium on loans and interest a year to our entrepreneurs, our citizens. I'm being stopped here yesterday by people who do business in transportation tourism, who bought cars to lick this thing, fail, fail, take away their property. So the peasants our farmers, the incentives give to those who absolutely haven't seen the cows. Here I tell you they get incentives in the junk of people who don't know how many cows have tits, they don't know I guarantee you. We've never given any more incentives, we've never produced less, we've never imported 3 billion euros again, 3 billion. The fact that you have to listen to Pupovec and Plenkovic's fellow MPs, I can only listen of course to all the people listening to you if I need to and I'm wrong, the only one I can listen to is God and the people who chose me here. Who's here... Who's going to give me here and I'm going to give such a government legitimacy? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is no power to protect our peasants, our agricultural land, there is no power to protect our Adriatic Sea, to declare an exclusive economic belt, there is no power to protect our domestic producer, there is absolutely nothing but to borrow and declare some quasi-storages that, according to their selective regulation, will determine certain freedoms. Beroš can take pictures with some of our singers, hug them, kiss their hands and show it on Facebook, and we, look what he's done to us here, good thing he didn't put a wrinkle on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-09-03-0.u5046	Time, thank you. With that, we've exhausted the full debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll continue tomorrow morning at 9:30. Proposed by the law on the execution of a prison sentence, first reading, P.Z. No. 11. SESSION Interrupted at 16:33 p.m.
