ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188691	Now, we're going to start with: - Proposal of the law on the ban on glyphosate, first reading, P.Z. No. 751 Col. Zekanovic raised his hand for a break maybe before you just start announcing, if we don't get to finish this point by, in the next hour, then we'll take one break from an hour, so from half 11 to half 12, since a session of the Bureau of Assembly has been convened regarding this health situation that exists in our country. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188692	Dear Vice President, I am looking for a break from the Croatian Sovereigns Club of course with this bill, and here I must stress the need to open a thematic session on the topic of the epidemic, or the pandemic of the Coronary Virus. So it is not logical and it is not possible for the Croatian Parliament today not to speak at all about this topic, the topic which is very, very current, which and how it earthquakes not only Croatia but the entire EU and the whole world. So it is a crisis that I will dare say the greatest in the recent era, and in the Croatian Parliament we are simply standing we are doing nothing and we have not yet dared or the Bureau of Parliament dared to put that item on the agenda for discussion. I don't know why, I believe that the Croatian Parliament is the most important place for Croatian politics, for the Croatian state, and I think that this point should be discussed at one thematic session and it should be held in haste, if it is to be debated today but mandatory in the coming week. So, when there is any crisis situation, and here we already have 31 patients in Croatia, over 1,000 dead in Italy, 10 thousand people all over Europe, then this item of the agenda must be discussed in the Croatian Parliament as the most important place for the Croatian state. So, I call on you to influence the president of Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic's assembly and to start next week, and perhaps today, here is my recommendation today, starting with a thematic session on this subject. So it is not possible for this topic to go under the radar or not to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188693	Thank you very much. Of course I'm going to give you a break of up to 9 and 45 with the fact that I have to say, I've just said an hour before that it was called for and a session of the Bureau of Parliament that will affect, of course, the work of the parliaments, and this one, and it seems to me that the media are really very good at reporting constantly, every day almost an hour about the development of the situation in us. So this one's not that we don't know exactly what it's all about, but I'm saying we're going to have a session of the Assembly Presidency, and that's why we've set a break, if we don't finish by then, and now we're going to see each other, so like we said at 9.45. It's 9:00.36. CONTINUE OF THE SESSION AFTER THE MEETING AT 9.45 A.M. Here is a respected colleague and colleague, and we will continue to remind us of the bill on the ban on glyphosate, first reading P.Z. No. 751, is the proposing representative Miro Bulj based on Article 58. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Government... delivers his opinion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188695	Thank you very much, esteemed secretary with her co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Before the Law on, which I have proposed, on the ban of glyphosate in the Republic of Croatia, I would say that it is never more visible than now when we have a particular threat, as important agriculture, which is why I gave the Law on the ban on the sale of agricultural land, I also gave the Law on the ban on imports that is to protect, above all, the protection of domestic production, which is the Law on the ban on imports, transport, trade and sale of GMOs, exclusively because when they come to threaten certain that, as with the question of the coronary virus, we see that we need to have our own domestic production, and that we need to think much more about our peasants as the European Union is calling us and that the agricultural branch that we should talk about, not only as a production branch, but about people in areas and rural areas, because we do not have to have 780 thousand hectares of agricultural land, because we have a very much money in Croatia, because we have to keep our products in order to be safe in Croatia, because we are safe in Croatia, we are safe enough for our products. Unfortunately, the import lobbys located in our ministries, I call them often pests, have led to the growing import in the Republic of Croatia of food products of questionable qualities that threaten above all what is most important and that we Assembly representatives have to talk, the health of our people, our people, and that domestic production is very important and that we have to talk about these things. I call you once again, here as a parliamentary representative, let's buy home what's left, buy in the markets, buy locally, buy in our peasants, buy what we know that people produce and thus help, help increase agricultural production, and not increase, this one to increase imports of questionable quality. As I said, I gave a set of laws because first of all I believe that national interest is agricultural production, and I believe that what is happening in the Republic of Croatia, that is also in the European Union, we are not talking about anything here, it is not this topic Miro Bulj opened, Miro Bulj came here and opened, this topic has been discussed for many years, and this topic has been talked about glyphosate for a long time, it is about us, we have 20 products and 50% essentially in Europe and the world is, there is glyphosate, it means the substance that is used in the Republic of Croatia, here I can give you a few examples, for example, that whoever has the country has not used, and in this way we know that the people, the people, the people, the citizens, I would not be able to get close to you, this cidocor, it is what is when you reach weed or grass, not to you, and we all of all, that we have little, that in fact, that in fact that in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, this country we could be 6 months, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country, this country could be nothing could be, this country. Here's to making this a little bit simpler, basically my proposal goes for the reason that the World Health Organization, or its International Cancer Research Agency, published in March that herbicide glyphosate is probably carcinogenic. Recent studies suggest the possible impact of glyphosate on health, especially on the end-blood system and on the environment. Exams commissioned by a network of environmental protection organisations, a friend of Earth, Europe, show that gliphosate traces can be found in human bodies. From an independent laboratory in Germany, Earth Friends, the Association, which is a civil initiative, have ordered urine samples collected in 18 European countries, the results have shown that gliphosate traces can be found in samples of all countries. When taking into account all collected trace amounts of glyphosate, it is possible to find as many as 44% of the samples. So animal studies show that in the consumption of glyphosate plants, about 15 to 30 are absorbed in the body of the animal. In the same studies, glyphosate has been shown to be found in the blood and tissues of the animals studied. In the process of decomposition of smaller amounts of glyphosate may disappear, meaning damage to the body after a long time. For all of this, we must say here, as I said at the outset, it is not this question opened by Miro Bulj, the European Parliamentarians have opened this up. In 2017, the European Commission requested that EU member states extend, otherwise the use of glyphosate was extended to 2022 to 15 years in this case. The question here is why Austria and European i.e. their lower home has decided to ban glyphosate. Here, that's the key question. Why did he bring it? No matter what the Government says in its opinion, Austria has sent EU members its intention to ban glyphosate. So if Austria does that, I don't see why we don't. So Austria is on organic farming, organic farming is progressing and it defies, it defies the European Commission's decision supported by 11, 18 members, 9 were against, so we're saying the European Commission has made a proposal to extend the use of glyphosate to 2022. 18 members voted in favour of the European Commission's proposal, 9 were against and 1 abstention. However, I am interested here in how the Republic of Croatia voted on the issue because I cannot find this information, I am interested in how Croatia voted on the use of glyphosate. Research means I said what they show and what they're literally hiding and we have, so the intention is to open this law, essentially this proposal on the use of glyphosate used in 100 million liters, that's what I'm going to talk about in the debate if it's.../incomprehensible/... the goal here is to open a debate. I call on Croatian scientists and some of them I will quote here, I call on committees relevant to do round tables because if anything is important to us here it is the safety and health of our citizens and the primary issue of my opening this issue is what happens in the use of glyphosate. While the International Cancer Research Agency, as I said to the World Health Organization, concluded glyphosate is probably carcinogenic to humans. On the contrary, the European Food Safety Authority argues the opposite. Glyphosate-based Herbicides are used only in agriculture, but in public and private gardens, which potentially brings farmers and consumers into danger. As I said, the Government's opinion that it doesn't accept is not clear to me why I would be here asking for an explanation a little more detail than the Government of the Republic of Croatia because we have here and a relevant agency, i.e. A country that has to tell the people why other countries don't want to, struggle to stop the use of glyphosate. I'd just like to say a few things about glyphosate now. Glyphosate, as I said, is found in herbicides, intended to destroy unwanted plants like weeds, for example, I said. Recently it became the most used chemicals of all time. However, there is a great chance that we have never, you have never heard of it, and the giants of the chemical industry will be the happiest if it stays that way. Why? In addition to their intense use of glyphosate, glyphosate has proved very controversial, leading to an increase in concern about its safety. Using glyphosate can seriously disrupt our health, human health. There is a burning scientific debate on whether glyphosate is a carcinogenic chemical and we can only see by the European Commission's decision to use it until 2022. Otherwise it is commonly used, it does not extend to 5 years but is otherwise a practice to 15 years. While the International Cancer Research Agency, as I said, concluded that it is probably carcinogenic, we have the opposite opinion of the European Agency for Security. Glyphosate represents not only a problem for humans but also a threat and threat, but also an animal and plant. Human health isn't just about to suffer these damages. GMO production and glyphosate are two sides of the same medal. Gligosat and GMOs can be viewed as two sides of the same coin. Of the 61 approved GMO products in the EU, imports of more than half of them are glyphosate-resistant plants, designed to treat these specific Herbicides, and if you've looked at here, in the north, in the South American countries, are produced and in other countries, large industries are mainly soybean treated with glyphosate and these people are seriously ill with Monsanto tumor, which is usually produced and the first one is pushed into, and now we have other producers, glyphosate on the market, treated areas of soybeans imported into the EU, which feeds among others and animals, mainly pork, and pork we import the most into the EU, from the EU, and feed on soy soy grown and resistant to glyphosate on those surfaces, which means that we eat pork that we import which is contaminated by this toxic compound. That is why I call on you to look at many cases of cancer, physical deformations in these areas of people and animals in America, where an extensive area of land of farmed GMO soybeans that is resistant, as I said, to glyphosates, but these soybeans are exported to Croatia, Europe, the EU, among other things, to our area. The spread of harmfulness, glyphosate is harmful in itself, but herbicides such as Monsant’s Roundup product contain cocktails of chemicals that can be open, more toxic than the glyphosate itself, and even more risks to farmers as well as to the general population. In addition, a glisophate-resistant supercoal has already spread across the United States, Canada, due to the excessive use of Rundup to GMO crops to glyphosate. So we have a number of holes in evidence, so, however, to the known risks and health of people, animals, the environment, and we are calling for us to be the EU leader now, so here I am also calling on Prime Minister Plenkovic because he was a Europarliamentary when these topics were opened, this is not the topic that Miro Bulj opened again, this was opened by Europarliamentarians, the EU Commission and I call on him, if he calls for environmental protection, i.e. to protect climate change, to protect people's health as a key point, we see that the other day, Greta was photographed by our environmental minister and opened this topic about glyphosate. Otherwise, Monsanto, who became the owner of Bayer, claims there are no alternatives. Alternative exists. Alternatively there are and I think that the Republic of Croatia needs to ban this glyphosate from importing GMOs, transport, sales, trade and planting, except for medical purposes. I'm sorry we keep leaving our children as guinea pigs. Until I'm here and the amendment and the law, unfortunately no one has accepted it. In fact, 90 parliamentary deputies said that the amendment should not be accepted. As many countries ban, fight, Croatia will not ban glyphosate, says Minister Vukkovic. The Minister of Agriculture, here is the Secretary of State. And scientists warn of its harmfulness. On July 3rd, our minister said that Croatia will not ban glyphosate and that there is no harm. Glyphosate-based Herbicides are often dangerous. In her clarification, the minister explained that herbicide, which proved to be the most effective in the fight against weeds, suspected of being potentially carcinogenic, was therefore conducted by the European Food Agency in a number of studies. The biggest concern about the ban on glyphosate is the fact that it will damage the competitiveness of our farmers because there is now no single substitute, which is absolutely false and what, according to this, the minister's statements are obviously much more important and most important to you should be health, increasing agricultural production, organically grown agricultural production, I repeat, 790 thousand square meters, kilometers in the Republic of Croatia is unprocessed land, of which more than half of the land is owned by the Republic of Croatia. Therefore Austria is already in... Home voted on the ban on glyphosate, so should we, colleagues and colleagues, not waiting for the EU directive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Austria became the first member of the EU to bring a ban in July, meaning the Lower House, the use of glyphosate is also in effect, Czech Republic, Italy, the Netherlands. Austria also defied the rules of the European market by ban, but today Austria, which has the largest share of organic agricultural property in the EU, is around 23%, while the EU average is 2017 according to Eurostat data. 7%. So Austria organically grown agriculture is 23% and the EU is at 7%. Glyphosate is currently allowed for 5 years to conduct research and here is the key question why for 5 years? Why was 9 EU countries against it? 9, use of glyphosate and ban glyphosate. This is a key issue, and I am really interested in how the Republic of Croatia voted on the EU Commission's proposal. I don't have an answer yet, if the MPs know that answer, I know that Croatia has agreed to be against GMOs, however, what happened at the vote? I don't have that information. In August, France also plans to phase out glyphosate until 2023, but the 20 mayors banned dangerous herbicide in the area of their cities and municipalities during August, in spite of the Government of Emmanuel Macron, Macron promised to continue in 2017. To ban its use, however, has passed the 3rd year. He hasn't banned it yet. German Chancellor Angela Merkel said she would ban and fight against the use, use of glyphosate by the end of 2023, its use until then, it was reported only from September 4th from the German Ministry of Protection and Environment. The pharmaceutical company Bayer is one of the producers of this substance, she bought, so Monsanto, glyphosat has developed an American company that was bought under the name "Rundup" and dozens of other Glyphosate companies now expands and spreads around the world. Our concern must be whether it's safety and health above all else. Because if the World Health Organization said 2015. that glyphosate probably causes cancer. At least he didn't buy Monsanto recently and it's been claimed that research and regulators have shown that glyphosate and they claim to be safe for human health. However, the company faces lawsuits over numerous allegations of lawsuits in America 9000 has a lawsuit to cause a tumor, Ne-Hodgkin's lymphoma. According to the ministry's data, 21 are now being used means plant protection where the active substance is glyphosate. Its total consumption ranges from 50% of the total consumption of herbicides in the Republic of Croatia. I would say here that where the media showed up and we could read it, that in the city of Valeo, a gardener used to pour lawns around the school building because it was his job. He followed the manufacturer’s instructions and even wore a protective suit to further protect himself. After 2. Doing that job, man noticed a rash. Then the rash turned into large wounds that affected the whole body, lesions on his body sore that he could not wear clothes or go out in the sun. The doctors didn't at first, they didn't know what to do with him. Eventually they found out, he had cancer that killed him, an exact diagnosis of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, blood cancer. Johnson went against a giant Monsanto lawsuit, and he first brought down a large company known for the sale of pesticides and genetically modified seeds in the world. A jury in California granted him 289 million in damages that Monsanto had to pay, but something the judge reduced to 78 million kuna, which means we also have the verdict that this herbicide is harmful. glyphosate used in the Republic of Croatia. In the Republic of Croatia, as I said at the beginning, the most famous is the cidocor, cidocor + and cidocor max which our peasants used very often in the past, while now there are newer versions in the markets, but under other commercial names. Of course, everyone has this dangerous glyphosate inside them. And after scientists claim that it's probably a carcogen, as it is possible that our fields, orchards, respected secretaries, are spraying with this, says an American respected scientist with poisons. Possibly, because the active substance glyphosate is again approved in EU use, as I said by 2022, only the most defiant of Austrians, and I have listed countries where they fight, where there are even bans. Why does the minister represent the position of Monsanta, Bayer and other companies, not the safety and health of our people? My colleagues and colleagues, we're talking about a very, very serious problem. Our expert, Prof. Dr. Science Valeria Vrčeka, head of the Institute for Organic Chemistry and Pharmaceutical Biochemistry of the Faculty of Zagreb clearly says that glyphosate in the Republic of Croatia should be banned as soon as possible. This herbicide is given, should be numbered and it would not be good for the Republic of Croatia to be amongst the last ones, and especially what we are chairing the EU, particularly what the European Parliament has raised the issue, especially if we have a prime minister who was a euro-parliamentary when it comes to this issue. If we do not have the courage and purpose of this debate, it is to protect the health and safety of our citizens, and we are chaired by the EU. If Austria, which produces 23% of organic products, can be opposed and defied, if Macron says, although he has not yet fulfilled his promise, the mayors forbid him from glyphosate, if the German Chancellor said he would ban glyphosate, which is why we are silent, and we have 790,000 square metres of agricultural land untreated. I would finally repeat once again what is most important, here is the link between Monsant, Bayer, strong companies who are interested in not talking about this, I would thank everyone, parliamentarians, Europarliamentaries who have warned about this problem and opened this problem at European Union level. He would express his condolences to all the sick and who died because of this, this pest, and he would also invite us not to let us be trying rabbits, us and our children. We have court rulings, the U.S. court ruled that the cause of cancer, disease, the death of many people was due to the use of glyphosate. In his opinion, the government wants to deny me, but the fact is that the Lower House in Austria has made that decision on the ban on glyphosate, but it is also the fact that it has notified all members, members of the European Union. And why doesn't Croatia do it? Why does the Minister of Agriculture say glyphosate is needed and we won't ban it? Why don't you tell the public what the impact of glyphosate on bees, on human health, on the cardiovascular system, on judgments? You know how many convictions there are, how many procedures are there for people's disease due to this harmful, harmful glyphosate? Once again, colleagues and colleagues, please, I have raised a set of questions regarding the protection and safety of domestic production. We see that, unfortunately, we are being homogenized, I expect that we will be as much in this House as possible, and that the people will see that we are discussing topics that are significant, topics that will open up questions to develop our domestic production, 2.5 billion Euros importing agricultural products, most pork, importing pastries, cows, and our cereal is unprotected, unprocessed. So once again, let's ban the harmful glyphosate, and let's buy homework in the Croatian peasants, take a local bath and fight for the health of our people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188696	Thank you very much. We've got a whole series of replicas on your exhibit, and we're not gonna make it to the break, but let's start from the beginning. The first is a respected representative of the Sladolov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188697	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, dear colleague Bulj, every wise authority reads signs of time, if this thing with this coronary virus is not a sign of time, and if it's not a sign of alarm and alarm, and if it's not a sign that such things as glyphosate should be banned, and that it should be turned to environmental, therefore to our production, then I don't know what the sign is. ... Reading the signs of time means changing the things we're currently in, so this, this, this, this virus that's hitting us can be on one side and positive in the direction that we turn to our organic agriculture, our peasant, and we also protect that agriculture from such harmful things that you advocate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188698	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188699	As I said, in the Republic of Croatia we are increasingly importing agricultural products, and more and more surfaces are unprocessed and more and more of this rural space is empty, people are leaving. Once again, unfortunately now because of the threat that we have due to the coronal virus, and otherwise I often warn and make proposals here, let's shop in our peasants, and ban these harmful products that we import, which are treated and resistant to glyphosate, mainly in terms of the soybeans of Sladolev, you know how much imports from the countries of South America that we don't control, which we feed animals, mainly pork, we import and buy and consume, while other countries fight loudly. Once again grateful, our minister says I will not ban glyphosate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188700	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188701	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. You asked the question as to how Croatia voted, in 2017 in the European Parliament, Croatia, with France, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, Austria, Slovenia, Sweden, opposed further introduction, follow-up to the use of glyphosate. And the main one had a correction from 15 to 5 years old. Kissinger said who controls food, agriculture, production, controls the people, who controls oil, energy, controls the states, by you I see that you are for organic agricultural production, like most of us, but we know that this would put our producers in a subordinate position in relation to which, according to producers using protective means.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188702	Thank you. Thank you. Time's up. Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188703	(Laughter) [[Intruder: Time's up.]] Here I would, the serious topic is, and I think that your message that Croatia voted, I have no information, I know that Croatia and Croatian parliamentarians were in, all the time they were in, but exactly as I did not have that information, I would like to have information, I know that 9 countries were against the use of glyphosate, the ban, 1 they were abstentioned, and 18 were to continue the use of glyphosate, but still people move the borders I would say once again that Austria was 27% of organic production without glyphosate and it defied this most of all with other messages, let's say in France Macron that by 2020 they would ban glyphosate but not, but certain local self-government leaders had banned it, they defied it because their health and production. We have to invite our people to buy homework and start producing something.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188704	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Cjelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188705	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bull, I'd like to commend you for putting this topic on the plenary session, but on the other hand, I think you're the biggest PR officer to promote Monsanto. You probably wouldn't be talking about him, and tomorrow, in the media, that firm will be remembered thanks to you so you're advertising that company. The theme of glyphosate was launched in 2015 after it was found that it may be carcinogenic. At this point, I would say that the government of Andrej Plenkovic and while Tolusic was Minister and now, while Marija Vukkovic is from my valley of Neretva to lead a responsible policy to advocate Croatian agriculture in which food independence will be. So let's not be more papal than the Pope, and on the other hand, what you're up to would be the biggest damage to the Croatian farmer. So, because he wouldn't be competitive and don't compare that they're not comparable to use.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188706	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188707	Thank you very much. You as a doctor, as a man here and academically educated, thank you very much for saying that I have opened this subject of harmfulness and damage to the health and safety of our citizens and we see that many countries defy each other, but that I am Monsant's representative no, I am talking negatively about Monsant, negatively, most negatively, and this government is aware of these facts, you are lobbyists, this government, you are lobbyists of Monsanta because you still want to use their harmful means. You want our children to continue to be experimental rabbits. Do we have the convictions of colleagues with Cellic that people were sick and dying in severe distress because of Monsant's products, pests? I gave the law on banning GMO products, mostly Monsanto controls it, you voted to sell Monsanto's products to the health of our people, to the harm of farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188708	Thank you very much, thank you very much. The next replica is the respected MP Mikulic. Don't let your colleague Grumo whisper all the time, so he knows his colleague Bulja, I guess he'll agree to that himself, please. Here's what hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188709	Dear Vice President, you are known as a man who goes on show with jokes, I don't need a fellow Bulju whisper I support him, I express my approval to what he says. If anyone writes to you talking points, don't give it to your colleagues, Bulya. It's sad to go on shows with pre-prepared means things to say, Most people, MOST MPs are free thinking people who have their own attitude and don't need cracks. That's what you need to crack.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188710	Fine, you get a warning because you haven't even called for an article, and besides, you have nothing to discuss with me. Here's your colleague, Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188711	I'd like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly. You are also known as general practice politician and you are really opening a number of topics in the Croatian Parliament. So now it's up to us to be the glyphosate that is of paramount importance to our farmers, and I believe you're aware of that yourself, and here you're looking for an absolute ban on glyphosate. But what is worrying is that you do not offer any alternative to glyphosate and the situation in which our farmers will find themselves if we prohibit it. You yourself pointed out that you were taking care of a peasant, and what I'm interested in is exactly who you were communicating with by a farmer, mostly by science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188712	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188713	Well, if that's exactly what you said, I've opened up this topic to discuss, and I called at the beginning here at the start of this threat, and you'll say that before the glyphosate and Monsant are not agricultural production, you mean, you want to continue.../incomprehensible/... Monsanta and you would forbid a parliamentary representative to open up, correctly one question because I follow it, read it, live in the country, I know that people use this weed uncontrollably, and your prime minister was a European Parliamentarian, so I expect you to tell him what you're saying now, which is why you don't follow Austria's example policy, they don't resist and produce organic agricultural products. And you claim that as a politician, I have no right to open these questions, yes, I have opened the issue of the ban on GMOs, the ban on selling agricultural land to foreign legal and physical persons, and that we buy domestic and promote production, not harmful, products to import to the health of our people, so we import... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188714	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Glasnovic. Here you go. No, no, no, my colleague Glasnović was before.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188715	Here's a thank you, counsel Bulj, for running that, the danger of the herbicide. Of course it's an important thing, and what about these other things. Antibiotics in cattle, oestrogen in this chicken, female hormone in plastic, we see that men are becoming more and more feminized, we have evidence in Croatia today. What about 100,000 of this agriculture is, in fact, 100 billion kuna of agricultural incentives, what about it? When home onion says, under the domestic food we eat in the markets, white onion from China, I would only mention in the end what taboo topic in the Croatian Parliament and in the Ministry of Agriculture there, in all parties, why the empty eastern Slavonia, because the typhoids killed or drove 200,000 Germans out of Banovina Croatia. They took 1,000 farms, and that's why it's empty because the Croats were robbed there, and that's what we have to talk about, and that's where the truth became crime. These Germans were killed, driven away, and that is why Slavonia is empty.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188716	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188717	A good question for his colleague, Croatia has never given more funding, never more money for incentives than now, and never more imports, and we never produce less. And never again in the drive, so we don't have results. And that we have to turn around and that colleagues from HDZ and the majority and the opposition all have to ask together, what's wrong? Why in Vrgorec we drink fruit, peaches, we import GMO-treated, this, glyphosate. Why are we importing everything, we're importing onions, here's what you mentioned onion, and we have in my... We could plant an onion, no matter how much the tribune of the natives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they wouldn't satisfy production. Why don't we have an irrigation field? Why? Because import pests, import lobbies, pests are in the interest of importing this harmful food and which uses either glyphosate or are animals that ate the food that was treated And that's what they're interested in. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188718	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Varda now.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188719	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm sorry, I heard wrong. Uh, buddy Bull. [[Reiner: All right.]] On the Legislative Committee, however, I have already said my position, but I would note that the share of organic production, agricultural production is not related to the use of insecticides, pesticides and herbicides. I'm just wondering what it would be like if it wasn't for insecticides because we're a flea, and we forgot all about it. It's like an autochton organic insecticide plant. But what I'm interested in right now is why I volunteered for the replica, whether Austria, the state of Austria banned or did not ban this glyco, glamour, as you say, phosphate. Because it was said on the board, she banned, on your part, from the Ministry it was said she did not forbid it. Now I don't know who's talking anymore. The truth. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188720	The answer, the esteemed Representative of Bulls.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188721	You have a natural way... Butch, he's accepted as much as I read, follow, talk, so... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is acceptable, and I follow it, I read it because it would be my intention to protect our domestic producers and finally process these 790 thousand square kilometers of agricultural land and to have our own agricultural products in these threats, not to import from Italy in the middle of the tourist season. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What do we do now? Where are the pomajors now, and the earth is empty or tomato. There is an alternative, and before glyphosate there were farms, however, whoever controls the seeds resistant to glyphosate, he will control the flower and life, that's what Dr. Kira just got here. Interest in seed control and resistance to glyphosate, let's keep our domestic production, our old man's seed bank. We're fighting for Domestic production which [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] will be appreciated. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188722	As announced at the beginning of the session, we will now take a break by 11:30. And then we'll continue, of course, with the replicas and all the other discussions and everything, clearly. [[It's 10:30.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.34 HOURS]] Here is a colleague and colleagues who continue with the session as we agreed and the next replica is the respected representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188724	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Bull, I am a great supporter of healthy food. And I'm very careful when talking about glycosupate or other Herbicides as well as about GMOs. And that's good. But we are aware of all number one that Croatian agriculture unfortunately produces quite healthy food is not competitive. Secondly, we are aware that our citizens as consumers when they come to the store then watch what is cheaper and very often are cheaper foods that GMOs have been processed or treated with different Herbicides. Now, if we don't change that trend and that kind of approach, we're not gonna do anything about it. We can use legal limitations to direct things a little bit, but not enough. So, the key education is evident, and that is why when we proposed and introduced health education, it was supposed to be part of health care. So it seems to me that even a crown wouldn't have been this easy to pass if we had introduced the school in time...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188725	Thank you, thank you. Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188726	My colleague Klisovic was interested in me proposing this law because for years and years in the European Parliament, as well as in other countries, he discusses the harmfulness of glyphosate, that our people understand this is a cidocor simplified that people who treat the team know what this is about and discuss. One huge problem in the Republic of Croatia you have well diagnosed it is what we never give more resources, incentives in agriculture, and never less production and never more imports of agricultural products, so the example of pork we import billions of kuna, and EUR 2.5 billion we import food products and mostly that pork we import is fed by soybean that is treated in South America. which is resistant to cidocor or glyphosate. Therefore, I think we are trying to encourage people to farm land 700,000 m2 and buy in Croatian peasants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188727	The next replica was supposed to be colleagues from Grmoje, gone, lost his right to speak, and the next replica would be the respected representative of Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188728	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bulj, what is the opponent of progress towards better and stronger use of healthy food? The system in which only the price represents a meter by which citizens choose food, and they do not know, or do not see anywhere, that there are hidden advantages of organic farmed food, ecological and that there are hidden pests of conventional cheap food. If we could find a way to value it through food labelling, then our small-scale agricultural producer would be in a much better situation. And then he could, because people are willing to pay more for more quality, because when he gets sick, then they pay for wonders for all kinds of natural products.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188729	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188730	Kola Dobrovic, what you said and do in your life, you have devoted yourself primarily to this waste and management, and we are aware of how much we throw composts that should be compost as much as we throw away, that only part of the segment is singled out and that we give as a reward to a peasant who will deal with production in composts that we do not have, that peasant would already be on the plus and would be organically strengthened. However, the fact that in the Republic of Croatia we have reduced agricultural production while we have, I will repeat it on a non-stop basis, huge incentives. And it turns out here from our colleagues who want to say to me that this shouldn't have been proposed, it turns out that before glyphosate there was no agricultural production at all, as far as I know, but then it was agricultural production, and I think we have to go back to sustainable development, and that's what you're promoting.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188731	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, then I open the debate and the first on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and let's change Croatia's time will be shared by the respected representative Sabolek and the esteemed representative Lovrinović. First of all, the respected representative of Sabolek, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188732	... Respected citizens, colleagues and colleagues so it was actually interesting to hear the government's representatives say that glyphosate is not a danger to human health. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I don't know if he needed any more evidence of the carcinogenicity of glyphosate than the U.S. court verdict, so the glyphosate cradles, the Bayer who bought the infamous Monsanto, are currently facing 8,000 private lawsuits. Monsanto knew that glyphosate caused cancer and other diseases but tried to stop the public from finding out. Former California-based professional gardener Mr. Johnson died of cancer after using a few years of Herbicide Ronudup based on glyphosate, sued Bayer Monsanto and in 2018 agreed to a final ruling amounting to $78 million in damages. Johnson's case was the first to directly link the known Herbicide Ronudup to deadly cancer. The Bayer that bought Monsanto Ronudup faced about 8,000 lawsuits. Bayer shares have lost more than 10% of the value in 2018 only since payment of the first compensation was imposed. So I repeat, is there any need for stronger evidence of the carcinogenicity of glyphosate? I don't know why you don't ban it, you may be defending the interests of the German giant Bayer because your party has conducted a series of research that has not proven the carcinogenicity of such a substance, and the European Commission has extended its use until 2022. The European Commission should not allow the further use of glyphosate on the basis of covert studies financed by the industries themselves, in which people who do not want to publicly publish their interests were involved. In addition, you from the Government are not saying that many EU member states prohibit glyphosate by not waiting for the European Commission's Directive, for example Austria, it has banned the rules of the European market, but today it also has the largest share of organic agricultural property in the European Union. You also fail to know that there is an open letter 93 top European scientists who have argued that the European Food Safety Authority quoted the results of research funded by the corporation as proof of the safety of the use of glyphosate. You're also saying that the UN International Cancer Research Agency classified glyphosate as possibly cancerous for humans back in 2015. And what about corporate GMOs based on glyphosate that besides poisoning us leads to the collapse of small and medium-sized farmers? Perhaps the regimeal HDZ-SDP-HNS alliance has been systematically destroying our national agriculture for years and evicting Slavonia. What we're going to do with the scientifically empiricalally proven deadly influence of glyphosate on bees without which human species is doomed. Do not hide behind the European Commission, immediately ban glyphosate, do not destroy the health of citizens and the local economy of your own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188733	Now, on behalf of the same club, the respected representative Lovrinovic will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188734	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in front of the Party Let's change Croatia I would like to support, show my support for this Proposal for a law on the ban on the use of glyphosate in Croatia, and this is a commendable initiative by MP Mira Bulja, so it suggests that the ban should be simply the use of glyphosate. But we see here already in the debate that the ruling coalition is against it, you know, it's interesting why the representatives of the ruling coalition against the abolition of glyphosate, of course they prove to be referring to other opinions, so it's not so bad, so since glyphosates are bound above all, these herbicides mean, in the form of herbicides, for GMO plants that grow, then they say so well we don't have so many GMO plants, but none of us alive knows to what extent and where the fields are sown by GMOs or something else, because it's transmitted by wind and so on, and so on. So, we are in favour of the Party Change Croatia for the declaration of Croatia as an eco oasis of the European Union, so on the border it should be written, large plates, boards of Croatia's eco oasis of the European Union. In order for it to be an eco oasis of the European Union and thus to popularise our country as a country of healthy food, healthy life, then we must ensure healthy food and healthy life. We can now refer to this or that research into the influence of this glycosate in the form of herbicides, which has led to a verdict in America for a gardener to pay him $290 million, because a man has suffered from cancer incurably. I therefore propose to all those who are to use this herbicide to apply to the experimental group here in Croatia, that they are tested means that this herbicide will work, because the Italian consortium of the institute has been doing research on rats and has shown after research that the effect of this herbicide is very harmful, dangerous, leading to hormonal disorders, problems in the digestive case and so on, and so on. So what's the speculation? You'll always find at least one let's just say the argument... There's something about it and good, so if it's a good fit, be in the experimental group and we'll see how it works on you later, that's the fairest thing, because if you're so confident and sign up brother that, and don't experiment on the Croatian people, yeah. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you're saying we won't, but you certainly don't buy that food there at those cheap centers, you certainly don't, and you're looking around, I know by some of you, you're going to pick up villages, you're asking around, you're buying, and then you're saying these, and the most interesting thing here is, you're mass buying this herbicide, the first explanation in the poll was because it's cheap, he's very cheap you see, but cheap herbicide or let's say, I can call him... And the poison, which is cheap and is used to produce something, food, becomes too expensive in the health care system to treat these, not those same people, but citizens who consume food because that gliphosate over the plants that eat animals, it stays in the meat, we eat it, it comes into our organism, it eats. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I have a very simple proposal, gentlemen, if you are so confident and you are promoters of glyphosate, these herbicides in Croatia, here, commit yourself, I invite you to sign for an experimental group today and let everything that is on you be tested. But look, in the EU, nine countries were against it. 18 for. Croatia was against, so whoever you represent, there you were against, here you are. I mean, you're a little confused by you from the ruling coalition, I don't know what's going on, is that before tomorrow's, uh, election day after tomorrow, maybe some kind of disturbance, but I don't know what's going on here. So when we talk about the coronary virus, you see, and it's connected, it's all connected. Here, on the border pass people, cops, customs officers, have some gloves, those rubber, plastic, take passports, over passports they practically pass on to other viruses. So why don't you take at least the codes of that manual so you scan the passport immediately through the glass, you don't even have to go out, etc., also examine the goods that cross, these are huge problems at the borders. So there's not a battle against the coronavirus just at headquarters. It's run in primary health care, on the border across cops and this, etc. But to go back to this topic of glyphosate, herbicide, etc. Well, we're a small economy. I'm an economist by trade, as you know. Croatia has no chance of producing mass food. No way. And he just keeps making corn and wheat and then he says he needs to glyphosate, who's going to mow it, who's going to do this, etc. We can survive if we said we were to be a green oasis, an eco oasis of the EU, healthy food, only to produce healthy food that will be expensive. When I was in Iceland half a year ago in... Visiting because you know I walk, Parliament never paid me any lip to go somewhere, but I don't need to, right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But since you left, we haven't seen any use for you, I've asked how you make this salmon, which is your strategy. He says, you know, our strategy is to sell the most expensive salmon. I say so how do you, like you won't succeed, because we want to feed them healthy, and we have wild salmon, etc., we want the most expensive salmon. Now that's a question for Croatia. Will Croatian agriculture compete in the production of those where they cannot compete because the average area in the EU per farmer is 100 hectares. In America, 1,000 acres. In Croatia 5 hectares. European agriculture would end in a year, all tractors and disruptors should be thrown into the Atlantic once freedom is opened, exchanges between American agriculture and European agriculture. She'd just pour rice, wheat, corn, whatever you want. He can't compete. Therefore, it is highly subsidized and enjoys special protection of the state. So in that sense, we from the party change Croatia means we support this bill. He's talking about the state of consciousness, he's one call for a healthy life, for our descendants, and on the other hand, you tell me. Who controls these 33,000 hectares of the most fertile agricultural areas in Croatia that he has taken over from Agrokor Fortenovo, which is what they are spraying there and what are they saving, what are they doing there? And you who are experts, especially for agrarian, you know from year to year that the layer of humus on Croatian agricultural surfaces is shrinking. What's with the dung? Do manure, and have 33,000 hectares of the most fertile country in Croatia. Dear citizens, you write to me all the time and it's kind of annoying, not all of you. He says, well, whoever I'm talking to, there aren't six, seven, eight, ten people here. I'm not telling my colleagues here, my fellow citizens, I'm sending you a message, I'm sending you fellow citizens. Because here most people don't want to hear this, or smile, say you talk yours. So that's why we're here when the election comes, it's just a question of whether you're going to live like this anymore or not. Are you going to poison us or not? Do you want to take care of this country or not? If you want us to fix it, then the highest number of people you're looking at here must never be here again, you know. Never. So in ancient Greece was this one practice that at the end of the year they were demos, so the citizens chose the worst politician or the worst, and then, who they would mark as such, he would be expelled from the country. It's this old-fashioned, ostracism. I think we should get buses here. But let's get rid of the citizens in the next election, get rid of these people and set up a new policy to change Croatia, to ensure our children, to ensure our children and us a healthy life, because whatever area we open, we launch, we see disorder, crime, corruption, ignorance. There is ignorance in this House, you better not know how much there is because it is a great privilege for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188735	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, Miro Bulj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188736	Here I would like to thank my colleague, Lovrinović, and my colleague Sabalek, for supporting this law in the name of their club on behalf of their own, and in the essence of the proposal of this law, in addition to what I have proposed so far, the ban on agricultural land to foreigners because we know that it points out the moratorium and we know that these areas have been evicted, our rural areas, to ban agricultural land, as Hungary has done, I have also made a proposal for banning imports, transport, sales and trade in GMO products and production. However, and then I'm not supported by most so that this... The one mentioned here by my colleague Lovrinović is amazing here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In front of European factors, as you say, you voted for that. against this use of glyphosate, it's a ban, and here you are against. And now the question is really being asked, and I suggested that, unfortunately, I made a proposal to ban GMOs, as I said, transport, import, trade, sales and this production, which is not supported here. And we see that all the relevant factors of this Mr. Johnson in the U.S. have received his lawsuit, but a serious illness has been won by a number of others who are now suing Bayer and Monsanto, so the huge funds are working. So, what do we lead to? We have research on bees in Canada, so Canadian scientists have conducted extensive research into the presence of glyphosate in honey. They collected about 200 samples of honey from all over Canada, a random sample, and in 197 they discovered, this one measured large amounts of glyphosate. So, where the International Cancer Research Organisation thinks it's a believer in cancer and where Mosanto and Bayer lose, it's now Bayer, losing huge money because of people's illness. And now we're wondering, and I'm going to talk about baby food to another person about finding in a child's food glyphosate. So, we're asking the question here now are we really trying rabbits or we're going to have this agricultural land, mostly unprocessed, we're going to work alongside, so I'm talking about, we're going to process to produce organic clean food, 790 000 square kilometers, we're going to have unprocessed land and we're going to produce food and we're going to fight for the survival of people in these areas, we're going to have the smallest production in all of these issues today, and we're importing the most food products, and we're essentially resistant to glyphosate or animals that ate that, this food or we're importing that food. And now the question is, Mr. Bulj, a colleague from HDZ, where did you get the right to suggest that? Because I live in areas where people are plowing, where the blue field isn't watered, everything's under the weeds, nobody cares about these people, and as long as there's a huge amount of money for agriculture, and we never import again. We have experts, so 200 people of experts, who say it's a dangerous glyphosate, we have our man an expert who warns that the triba is an urgent ban, we have Austria, the Lower House, which has made a decision on the ban on glyphosate, and it has directed it to all EU countries. So we have Macron who said he would close, in France that he would ban glyphosate, but he didn't, now local leaders, 100 local leaders banned glyphosate. What's our tribune? Sustainable development. How much biowaste only ends up in, in, in, in, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to give, to, to our farmers, we saved the farmers and made it possible for them to, because of the disappearance of that compost, we allowed them to, to, to have a cheaper product, just to have a compost. About it, Slaven Dobrović knows much more because it is his profession. But here is where Monsant's product is pushed and these companies which, and other companies of course that place on the market, Monsanto first began and so is their seed. The Republic of Croatia is the only survival in sustainable development, our agriculture is the only survival of sustainable development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188737	Thank you. Here's my colleague, Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188738	Dear Mr. Vice President on behalf of the Representatives' Club Let's change Croatia and The Living Wall I'm looking for a 10-minute break on this subject. The issue of national security, such as the coronary virus, is a matter of national security, is the quality of food, which refers to glyphosates because gliphosates are contained in meat, so that we consult further. In recent years, we've been looking for, from the club, we're looking for a report from the Ministry of Health, so agriculture and the Ministry of Health to make a precise analysis of the time series back in the next month. Since the intensely increasing imports of food into the Republic of Croatia, as it is known that we are exporting a billion and 400 million euros, and we are importing 2 billion and 400 million euros. There's a large amount of meat being imported, we've seen over the past few years that's a troubled origin, in some cases no one knows how old it is, whether from some strategic reserves, years old etc. We ask, therefore, a report from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture report on the correlation between imports of food with an increased, increased number of cancers in the Republic of Croatia? So it doesn't have to be 100%, but it would certainly warn us of the trend of the first, and then it would have to follow a precise, means research. So, through this we want to protect Croatian citizens, all of us, our children, do not want the garbage to be imported into this country at a cheap price if we know that destroying old food from old meat is more expensive than giving it away for free literally or for 10 cents in the EU because destruction is more expensive. The Republic of Croatia must not be a dump and be poisoned by both us and our children, thereby increasing the costs of the system, but must be an ecosystem of the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188739	Thank you very much. Of course I'll give you a break. I'll see you at 12 and 10. MEETING IN 12,01 HOURS Here, our colleagues and colleagues are done, so we'll continue with the replicas. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.13 HOURS]] We have a replica of the respected representative Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188741	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bulj, you mentioned a study in Canada that identified the presence of glyphosate in practically 99% of honey samples that were collected randomly in Canada. Do you know what the industry will tell you, the answer to the market? So those who live off it very well. They will say that it is statistically insignificant, that it does not mean and poses no particular danger, so mostly they go for it until it is proved that a direct relationship exists between health or endangers health and the fact that it exists is not a dangerous thing. Of course we think quite differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188742	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188743	Well, yes, it's amazing that in 99% of random samples taken by random choice in Canada, honey is glyphosate. And, of course, industry and powerful people wouldn't want us to talk about this that have a great profit and a great profit, but it goes to the harm it means health, health, all of us, and especially our children. And then I'm going to use the moment, if I have time, and I'm going to have that interest in this topic, and that was the goal, relatively good, for food on baby food, those on baby food samples, you're going to see how much is in the U.S., this how much is the percentage of glyphosate. So, do we want our children to be test rabbits? This is the basic question I am asking, which is why the increase in Croatia is due to the number of tumour patients. Is that possible? What the World Health Organization says, that's exactly what they've been doing, harmful food.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188744	Thank you. We are going to the next club of representatives, which is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Domagoj Mikulić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188745	I'd like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly. Dear Secretary of State Majdak and his associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing the law on the ban on glyphosate, when we talk about glyphosate, it should be said that this is the most commonly used herbicide in the world and is primarily used in agriculture where farmers are helped to protect fields from unwanted weeds before the beginning of sowing and cultivation of new cultures, mostly in permanent crops in their vineyards, orchards, olive groves, forest plantations. It is also used for the restoration of meadows and pastures. We are all aware of the great competition in the production and sale of food that our farmers and agricultural activities put under great pressure and that means that our farmer must be maximum effective if he wants to survive on a large market, which means using new technologies, preparations, etc. Today, our farmer's glyphosate is an effective field aid and economic cost-effective plant-growing aid, and due to the lower presence of weeds, much higher yields are made by some estimates and up to 22%, which later refers to a higher profitability of around 25%. Our farmers are in an invisible position because they have to produce more quality and cheaper products with less resources, and this idea of banning glyphosate today would be a great burden to the same and one with the other never goes. This is not a new topic, glyphosate is a topic of many public debates in recent years, although it has been present since 1973, there are certain indications that this substance poses a risk to both the environment and health. And that's exactly why, except that glyphosate is the most commonly used herbicide he is also the world's most studied herbicide. That is why it is very difficult to assess its carcinogenicity or non-cancerogenicity but it is good that analytical technology is making huge progress and I believe that in the future we will come to an answer to the question of the carcinogenicity of glyphosate, and until then, without analysis, I think it is quite irresponsible to speculate. Croatia currently has 19 plant protection products containing glyphosate and its consumption ranges to about 50% of the total consumption of herbicide preparations. But we all need to be responsible together and aware that we currently have no alternative to this issue and, before the ban itself, we need to be responsible for farmers and find another form of weed processing, prepare scientific analysis, provide support instruments to further educate and prepare our farmers for a transitional period, especially those of our small economies. The EU has approved glyphosate for use in plant protection products until 2022 and there are registered means for the protection of glyphosate-based plants in all countries. However, for all those who are skeptical about this and believe that we must make such hasty decisions since the end of 2019, the procedure for re-approval of glyphosate at EU level is being implemented. It is a complex process that includes both the profession and the food and chemicals agencies, the interested public and all Member States to present their scientific and professionally proven indicators and monitoring data on the potential adverse impact on human, animal and environmental health. As I was saying, the analysis represents complex processes that last for a long time, but only they can give the requested answer. And the least of the problems is to ban something but what's our alternative. The importance of glyphosate in agricultural production is large and unfortunately there is no alternative, and by this legal proposal we place our farmers in a subordinate position, and since other countries are allowed to use it, we also endanger their competitiveness. Such irresponsible behaviour among other things can lead to the opening of the black market, mainly in border areas with countries where glyphosate is allowed, and we today have situations where in the product analysis we find funds even though they are banned on our market, which means we have an illegal use of these funds, and I'm afraid that's exactly what might happen to us with glyphosate. In such topics, we should all be responsible together, leave populism aside, have scientific evidence of harmfulness, before the discussion of the ban itself, find an alternative, educate and prepare farmers, provide support instruments before we ban glyphosate that is used today in all agricultural segments. Therefore, the HDZ Club will be responsible and will not support this proposal for a law on the ban on glyphosate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188746	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the re-respected representative, Miro Bulj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188747	Thank you very much to the MOST Representatives' Club in, participating in this debate, of course I do not agree because I will personally create such topics, and I open them myself, it is my obligation as a national representative, absolutely this is not populism, this is the subject as a colleague, as they claim here that Croatia voted, one of those who voted against the glyphosate in 2017 when the European Union,... So 9 countries were, so argues, 9 countries were against, 18 were for glyphosate to stay on the market, it was reduced to 15 years to 5, and about this means speaking enough second example in other countries, absolutely do not consider this a populist proposal, I once again call on all scientists to engage, all people to engage, but I have certain scientists who go public, so I would now mention again Valeria Vrčekova, who is head of the Insurance Office... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The pharmaceutical and chemical college in Zagreb, which alone said that Croatia should be banned as soon as possible from glyphosate, these are hebricids meanings that should be numbered, he also states here his effects in his interview that glyphosate is essentially an import product, a product of poor agrochemical science, that, that effects are catastrophic, it is a means, according to Professor Vrček, that the tool is ideal for disrupting biodiversity because this nature, it destroys everything, means... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The effects of chemical protection, destroying the environment, except as it is his, except as the formulation of carcogenics as the World Health Organization says, glyphosate is both hormonal poison or endoblood... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] that disrupts the hormonal balance of humans and animals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He states that it is unfortunate that the immediate chemical is based on modern agriculture and the production of bread, oil and pasta or beer. And you're asking what's the alternative? Do you know when the glyphosate appeared, do you know when it appeared, and what is the interest of this industry? Here in the replica... So you tell me when he showed up that the public heard why our children in the research would be, which I will show, I will later quote Professor Vrček as our expert, and you deny yourself because Croatia voted against, which is why she voted against then?, I am curious why she voted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Glyphosate in children's food, in the United States children's food testing was carried out on the contents of hebricids of glyphosate, at random also selected products in the shops of San Francisco and Washington, and samples sent... American... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] accredited for the determination of pesticides. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The results were devastating, in all studies and samples examined, traces of glyphosate, a chemical that, as I said in 2015, was classified by the International Cancer Research Agency as a group of substances likely to cause cancer. The survey was conducted by the Washington-based environmental task force, members of that group decided to check the presence of glyphosate in foods that many American children eat daily, dental, fruit, and other cereal products, instant spoons, snacks, were studied 28 different products of popular brands, 26 out of 28, which meant 93% of the amount of glyphosate was greater than the permitted limit recommended by the group's employees, meaning 0.01 milligrams per day. So it was larger than that allowed in 93% of children's food in the United States to control it. Imagine what food our children eat then? And that's funny. So this is an open question why is it reduced by 15 years of use, that period, to 5 years in the European Union? Why did the Austrian Lower House decide to ban glyphosate? What makes Angela Merkel say she's going to fight the glyphosate, for what? What's the increase in the number of tumors? Which is why we invest most in the agriculture of incentives and we never have worse agriculture because we import harmful and cheap products. And it's not funny, this is a question for discussion, I call everyone in good faith, not this populism, in good faith as a representative I opened this question,... but I've opened these topics and I'm going to open them for the future of our children because I don't want them to be trying rabbits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188748	Thank you very much. We have one replica, respected MP Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188749	I thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bulj, this is the classic pulsism you're saying in 1973, so the last 40 years on the market have been glyphosate, but you just don't understand matter. You said here that Austria banned glyphosate, it's simply not true, you said that France defends glyphosate, that's not true, France even records the growth of sales from glyphosate products. Your data that you present comes from newspaper articles and really do not have any more serious justification. and in the Republic of Croatia, no case has been reported with a higher proportion of glyphosate, so please be responsible, to speak exclusively here the truth, and do not quote certain parts of certain newspaper articles of questionable portals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188750	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188751	Okay, you can declare something populism, it's your right and it's yours, it's democratic law and I don't have any problem with it. If Valeria Vrčeka, a professor of science, then I ask you whether these people are scientists in the Republic of Croatia who are head of the Department of Organic Chemistry and Pharmaceutical Biochemistry of the Faculty of Zagreb says that they should be banned from glyphosate immediately, if the Austrian home, if in the EU, Miro Bulj did not open this issue but that is Andrej Plenkovic, in Brussels he was against, loud, and in Croatia now that we are chairman of the EU, he is for Tušek. I want this debate to be discussed and the waist involved. And of course, I, as an agent, will open these questions. The fact that you voted to buy GMOs and to be the guinea pigs of Monsant's products and glyphosate, that's your problem, but it's my right and obligation to protect our children's health and safety. And that's not populism. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're a populist... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188752	The next club of representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists in the name of which the respected representative Slaven Dobrović will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188753	Thank you very much, Vice-President HS, I welcome the Secretary of State with an associate and, of course, all the present and Croatian public. In the first place, I would like to say that this legislative proposal failed to meet the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture which I chaired because there were problems on two occasions with the quorum or with the composition of those who constitute quorum because, obviously, it would have been a legal proposal even to pass as such or get a green light, so that there are no people who are members of the Committee on Agriculture and support the ruling, they were not able to listen to the debate and reject the legislative proposal. We have heard here that there is no alternative and that it is economically profitable aid in agricultural production. I mean, it's amazing to hear because it's a reson that simply sees only in one narrow direction and is not able to look and spread the view left and right, to know all the new knowledge that concerns these substances and then make policies and decisions, but to keep going in one direction. So, glyphosate as our experts call it, although I see it domesticated in the public name glyphosate is, is the most popular and most sold herbicide. However, the use of this herbicide is linked to many harmful effects on the environment because it is persistent, remains, goes back through food and in other ways to humans and animals, and there are significant adverse effects, so that it is a proven endocrine dictator, therefore also a substance that interacts with many metabolic processes in the organisms. He is all around and, of course, related, as my colleague used to say before me, there are numerous studies with him, but we need to know how to distinguish science and science. There is an independent science funded by public money that definitely does not benefit in its research, there is no, there is no targeted, targeted conclusion that needs to be reached by certain research, so they are independent and they come to the facts of science without interference of individual interests. On the other hand, we have an industry which, of course, is interested in this product because it was long ago declared an extremely good, brilliant, patented agrochemical product, a substance that has experienced huge production and sales and has made a huge profit for patent owners. This money, of course, is able to finance all sorts of things and media and various research that will help some other insights to be interpreted in the way that it now corresponds to someone who is very interested in the precise conclusions of these knowledge. And now we have here as a conflict of two sciences, one that claim to be harmful and that there is enough record, and others who say no, no, no, we have different records. So it's a matter of some controversy. I will remind that once, therefore, the organic chemical industry had a number of fantastic patents and products that they claimed to have solved, that it would solve all problems and diseases and famines and all together, is known as DDT, so the powder used for all sorts of things, so insecticide and is known to be a photo of the application of DDT on beaches, on the beach of New Jersey in America in '45. when one big machine was blowing, so because it's in the form of dust, the beach, the kids and the baths run around, but it was 45th, but there were a lot of people on that beach, and on the machine there was a DDT sign, so he knew what it was about. Strong insecticide, but harmless, so innumerable for humans. It says, that was the claim of whoever was blowing it. It's not even been 10 years, there's been a number of environmental damage and there's been a stop to the production of this DDT, this product, this patented so miraculous product that was supposed to save the world from everything and everything, right? What does that mean? There is a period of discovery, of placing on the market, of industry always fast, of claim, of whatever needs to be claimed, of getting permission, of going into production and of applying only then the effects are revealed and therefore there is a precautionary principle. Because we learned that because you now have these substances that are, these are persistent organic contaminants, they are all everywhere, you will find it in the sediment because there are no microbes, there are no enzymes that are able to break down these substances, or very slowly break down, under the UV of the sun, etc. And maybe some bacteria develop that will still go to make him disappear a little bit in the environment. So the precautionary principle suggests that whenever there's a controversy over something, so conflict of scientific records, that we should go to the side of caution. It's a policy guide, go on the side of caution not to cause too much damage, as is the case with glyphosate already done. Because what does this record mean about the presence of that compound in honey in Canada or children's food in America? Of course, manufacturers, those who have production, will all be stalking, production, placement, application. It's a fantastic thing. And now to jeopardize it, they'll do everything possible to get to the ban as soon as possible. And that's one big media war where they have big money. However, it is sad that one such proposal is then declared populism and that a smiling parliamentary representative, as he declares a man I do not know, rediculously or ignorantly, because he dares to talk about something he does not know all about. Mr. Bulj, the parliamentary representative has used the scientific records that exist, so he can read. So these records are present and not all of them are done with us. You can take the Science Magazine Nature and see that it is directly connected, therefore from British and French scientists, so they are directly associated glyphosate with metabolic disorders and then these are diseases that our children, people, old people, young people, all of them without knowing the cause. The cause is in food and the cause is in what is not regulated because we do not regulate the content of glyphosate, how much it must be in the müsli you give children to eat. These are all the questions that exist and that many people have already opened and discovered and know, but here it is ignored and then said, no, no, Austria has not succeeded. Yes, Austria is part of the EU and, of course, it takes time and procedure for it to push it out, to get to know all of them, because it has signed an accession agreement and is bound by various procedures and it is not easy. However, should we, a country where there are so many untapped agricultural productions, be at the home of these great producers, and we don't even have those big surfaces where, how is that... Of course, Americans are in charge of such applications, industrial production. Isn't it in our interest to work on strengthening organic production? And finally discover hidden damages and problems traditionally, chemically, industrially-produced food, and also discover the hidden benefits of environmentally-bred food and stop our people looking at the sole price. Let's not just look at the price. The price is the only parameter and, of course, people in poor economic power are sometimes forced to do so. However, it is not even those products that are not necessarily more expensive. A man who has healthy production, organic production, which is held by a regulation, which does not consume chemicals, which uses organic manure in a proper way, which goes to the best possible respect for the ecosystem and that it has less yield than industrial, however, healthy food, that food that is not actually food, it is also a cure. We have to, we all have to get to the point of making it easier for such manufacturers to come to the market and end it, i.e. to make it easier for them. It's not a ban, it's a ban. It's a ban. It's a ban. Don't do that. We don't need that. Thank you very much. Let's go produce what we need in a way that does not cause damage to the environment, and let's do that, that product we go to verify, so food labelling, quality, ecological quality, and let first, our customers know what and how, where and where they buy it, and then we'll be very easy, because it'll be a hoax for such products and for the outside because people like to buy proven healthy food. Every chemical treatment has its own mark. You can see in the wine how much there is, you can in the apple, you can in the meat, here, in the müsli, in whatever you want, everything has its mark, today the instruments measure if you want to get to the femto, peak level, you'll measure everything, so you can find the molecule and everything has its weight. Every toxin has its own weight, its burden of this product and I don't see it really any different than that this law goes into fact to contribute to Croatian agriculture and the Croatian economy, to the health of our people because every chemical that we and we, we bring into ourselves, and we don't even know that it burdens our immune system. It kind of brings some compromise, so and then here we have the coronary virus, it sure would be healthy food, those that are used with healthy food, that have a strong immune system the problem of the virus is virtually non-existent for such people. So I would point out that there is no populism here, that there are alternatives, and there are certainly alternatives, so what it means is that we will stop agricultural production if we stop glyphosate. That's bullshit. And that economic benefits from glyphosate, thank you very much because it creates ecological damage that you don't see so far in the account, but God didn't give you God that you'll see with your medical records. For we are sick of all things and all things, and we do not know what this is all about. So the path towards removing evidence because it's not there anymore, it's not controversy, it's proven, it's completely evident. So independent scientists have come to the conclusion that this substance has direct damage. And I guess that's enough to cross that off and look for other solutions. So, of course, the MOST Club will support this law and hope that Croatian politics will go in the direction, you do not have to support this law, but create a policy that will follow what we are talking about here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188754	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak again.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188755	My colleague Dobrovic, I do, and I must say that I have been disappointed by the board, which is why the members of the majority have escaped, and it was a quorum because they would simply have estimated that this would go away on the board, and as far as the call is concerned, from where I am entitled to propose laws and.../incomprehensible/... I did not just propose this law. I have also proposed a law banning GMOs, I have proposed a law banning agricultural land for foreigners, teleopers to behave in the Republic of Croatia as others, and I will propose. So this, which I have entered into politics of this desolate mind which in this assembly is being called upon by the academically most educated people who know their jobs and would have to know, but greater damage has been done to Croatia and to this and to this for glyphosates and harmful food and our agriculture than all the occupiers from the Turks to this day. That's why I got into politics, I didn't mean to be a politician, I was a professional soldier for 18 years, so I didn't think, and all academic educational people destroyed agriculture, economy, fishing, agricultural land, evicted 2/3 of Croatia, importing harmful food treated with this herbicide. who are resistant to this gliphosate, to the cidocor that the people understand better. You know, folks, when a cidocor pours out who's watching what it looks like. And they say I'm a populist, what I want to discuss, what I want to say is that it's sad that the speakers, you're only speakers under these lights, Mr. Tušek embellished, those industries that have huge gains to the health of our people, I want to discuss it, as a parliamentary representative, a simple man from Sinj from the village of Suhača, do you have a problem. He gave me a large number of votes to represent them, which I don't know...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188756	My friend Bulj, this isn't a colleague of the Tušek, you're a little confused.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188757	... I'm sorry if I got the wrong name, but here I said...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188758	My colleague Mikulić Domagoj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188759	...but I want to tell you, dear academics, that I have entered politics as academics, the most educated people have brought agriculture and my Croatia to the brink, my Sinj empty, the Cetina landscape, the uninhabited Sinjsko polje, and we are importing harmful food from large industries. And Europe is represented by the fact that you voted against, in the EU, against, the proposal from the European Commission against the use of glyphosate, and here you represent the views that glyphosate does not have this problem, the triba treatment, as before glyphosate was not produced. There's no alternative, there's alternatives. Now it's the worst, now we import soy, importing food that is, animal meat that has been fed with soy. That is, so this is your chemically biological political marketing populist for the purpose of large multinational companies. And it is a populism that protects large multinational companies at the expense of the health of Croatian citizens. Test rabbits can't be our children. American research says that in 93% of children's diets, food most popular than spoons, all that goes 93% has glyphosate more than projected 0.01 milligrams, 93% in Canada are proven honey, in 93% in honey samples, which are taken at the same random 99% is glyphosate in larger quantities than allowed. So what are we gonna do? Shut up about this. I want to discuss this as a parliamentary representative. I propose laws to a populist. What am I, a triba? What am I the triba bit? I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I won't, I don't, I don't see no problem, but you can't say that the bill is a populism where you don't want most of the board to be because you were aware that this would go through on the board. Yesterday, the board didn't even get a hold of this, so imagine not having a committee on such an important subject. And you claim that Croatia is among the 9 countries, among the 9 countries that did not support it, the one that supported it. She did not support the European Juncker Commission's proposal, which led him to extend, you claim I do not know, to extend the use of glyphosate. Then who's here is you're contradictory, in Europe you're against, and here you're doing everything you can to be spokesmen, protectors of large pharmaceutical billions get companies that do damage to... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188760	Thank you very much. We have several replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188761	Dear Representative Bulj, and I've been surprised for a long time why our government at the same time as our citizens are moving out of the country brings people out of the 3 countries of the world and gives them free apartments and pays them direction. Why not offer this possibility to Croats who want to return to our country? I wondered why this government supported Monsanto, or their herbicide glyphosate, when it was clear that in American courts they had lost many of the lawsuits on which carcinogenicity was actually proven and where they had to pay million-dollar damages. The only logical conclusion is that this government is working for an international click, that it does not work for its people, that they pretend to be one of us, and that they are not, in fact, representing those who secretly rule our country, who are trying to destroy not only our people and culture but also our related peoples and cultures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188762	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188763	2/3 Croatia is empty, 2/3 of Croatia's rural areas are empty, 790,000 hectares of agricultural land are under the weeds, Croatia has never invested in agricultural support, and has never imported agricultural products again, and we never produce less. So the goal was, the political goal was to import import pests, import lobbys in ministries, import harmful products to these pharmaceuticals, Monsanto, Bayer these products, and now that they've introduced these products, cheaply, they've destroyed our production now moved Croatia. And when we propose a law that Austria, the lower home passed a law on the ban on glyphosate, where Germany opposes, where France opposes, numerous commissioners, mayors... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188764	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the respected representative Dobrović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188765	Dear Representative Bulj, so I think this glyphosat is going to its end, and the agro-industry rich is looking for an alternative because they just have to continue producing something else, and Croatia does not want to be resented, I think you exaggerate a little when you say it is a programmed pest policy. They just don't want to wave a lot and stand out for something, it's best to keep your mouth shut and wait till you see when the big guy decides to throw something out of use, and then so will we. But it also means missing an opportunity to build a healthy organic farming that could feed our tourism, which could feed our health tourism and that could feed our people in a healthy way, therefore, and for everyone's sake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188766	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188767	I may have made a rhetorical figure too sharp, but I stand behind the fact that import lobbys are the biggest problem of domestic production and Croatian peasants and villages. And on this occasion, we see at this threat first that we will see that the problem is domestic production. I call for domestic purchases, I call for all agricultural land and so Croatia will be a rich country because without rich peasants there is no rich country. As for glyphosate, it did not raise the question of Miro Bulj, so the European Parliament opened and reduced it from 15 years to 5 years to 2022 by the use of glyphosate i.e. It's a phase of some kind of interrogation. Well, it wasn't Miro Bulj who said it was carcinogenic, it was the World Health Organization. Well, Miro Bulj has not reached a verdict for Mr. Johnson who has suffered 280 million kuna damages to pay Monsanto or Bayer to pay this man who has suffered from the tumor. So Miro Bulj just opened the topic as a parliamentary representative... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188768	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188769	Thank you very much. It is good to see that fellow Bulj you in some things are a spokesperson for the European Parliament here, usually as a Eurosceptic, but here I see that you are now representing certain views which the European Parliament has been considering since 2022 and that is not bad. What we should not do is call us in Croatia when 26 countries are still in the process of analysis of how and what to do. Let's say the most powerful European countries that don't have a producer of this, that substance means you talked about Bayer, it may affect Germany, but in France there's not such a large pharmaceutical company that makes it so the French can be squeezed, and they have to think about it. So it's probably looking for a certain alternative, but I agree with my colleague Dobrovic that we should develop our organic farming to try to compensate for certain things that are harmful to agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188770	Thank you. Dear Representative Bulj, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188771	Dear Maras, thank you very much for the constructive replica regarding glyphosate or, as the national cidocor says, it's usually when you pour weeds and everything goes black for months. The problem is that at this point in the Republic of Croatia we import too much food, too much, of agricultural products, and the fall means production, and we've never been encouraged again. Why? Because treated with glyphosate is much cheaper, it's much easier to produce and cheaper, and of course those cheaper products are placed on our market, but with glyphosate, that is, essentially genetically modified organisms, we have destroyed domestic producers, we have destroyed, and we have 790 hectares of unprocessed agricultural land, ecologically preserved, we have to be an ecological green zone of quality healthy food, and once again I call for a domestic purchase, we promote domestic peasants and farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188772	Thank you. The next replica is the respected MP Mikulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188773	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, the debate is absolutely welcome, it needs to be encouraged, it needs to be encouraged, but you're telling the half-truths and that's why it's populist. You mention Austria, and the Czech Republic, and France, in Austria is not prohibited glyphosate, in France we have even bigger, bigger sales than 10% glyphosate, in the Czech Republic is also not prohibited glyphosate, you are aware that we as a member of the European Union, we have certain obligations, that our hands are tied by 2020, you should be aware if you are not working, now you are doing analyses for the re-approval of glyphosate, also no case of higher proportions of glyphosates than the history of the Republic of Croatia in Croatia has been recorded when you talk about child nutrition, and so on. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188774	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188775	I'm sorry, but I'll give you the materials to read again. The lower home in the 7th month of last year Austria made a decision and sent a circular... to which you are calling, to all the members of the European Union, your intention to ban glyphosate, but it has made a decision, so can our Parliament, why not... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it's Austrian, we're slightly more developed than Austria, we have something better agriculture than Austria we import from them, and they've actually reduced the use of glyphosate because they have such promotion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No ban, but we will not buy, why would we import it into the Republic of Croatia and the harmful essentially products that are treated and resistant, food-resistant, I do not see any reason, but why Croatia voted in the European Union of 9 countries and it is one of the 9 that was against, and you are here for, it is not clear to me, you claim that you were of these 9 against,...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188776	Thank you very much. Now we're gonna stop this one for a second and we're gonna go And yes, we don't have a vote, we don't have a vote, yeah, then we'll just... [[Intruder: No, when we have finished the debate, after the vote.]] The end of the debate will go to the Clubs, and we will continue the debate, this next one will speak on behalf of HSS and Democrats' Club of Representatives, the respected representative Davor Vlaović [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go. [[Intruder: After the vote on Friday, and as there is no vote then after the debate.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188777	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate. Here is the proposal for a law which was referred to in the procedure by Mr. Representative Bulj on the ban of glyphosate in the Republic of Croatia. Above all, it is important to highlight the importance of agriculture and agricultural production in the world, and then in the Republic of Croatia, and it is not by chance that Croatia has placed agriculture and agricultural production in the strategic branch of the economy, however, the fact that agricultural producers themselves and consumers do not even notice that this is the case, because we have been recording the decline in production these past years, both in milk and in meat, and we do not have enough production of fruit, vegetables, or other food products, and we import everything and everything. And this particular importance of food production today is very relevant because of the global crisis with the coronary virus, due to the closure of borders, there is a real danger that, since we do not have enough food production, we will not have to feed our population for reasons of closing the borders and the reduced flow of goods, because only when we indicate that garlic, pea imports from China, from Canada, that fruit, vegetables are mostly imported from Italy, France, Spain, is sufficiently said in the context of closing borders and preventing traffic in which we are in the situation. And that is why it is important for us to talk seriously about this issue, to seriously talk about agriculture and food production in Croatia, not to say that so far the discussions have been inconclusive, but that it is unserious that under such circumstances we are reducing the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, although direct payments have been increased, but it is necessary to tell the truth that these are EU funds, that we have never paid our producers back to 100% possible, and that this reduction in production is partly the result. And when it comes to the use of pesticides, in this case glyphosate as a herbicide in food production, then it should be said that agriculture in a world without chemistry is hardly possible today, and reminding that the first insects were used another 1,000 years before the birth of Christ, when locusts appeared and destroyed all crops and plantations, and that simply today without pesticides would be reduced food production from 30 to 50% depending on species, depending on the climate and place where they are produced, and that we should be realistic and say that we must use chemical products, plant protection products in agricultural production, similar to products and use veterinary medicines in food production in livestock, as different pharmaceutical preparations are used to protect human health, as well as here in the protection of plants, our cultures that we produce, we need to use pesticides. And it should be said that the European Union, and then Croatia, has very strict conditions for registering certain active substances for use in, in its area of stricter than it is in North America, South America and other parts of the world. So so is glyphosate in 1970, and in 1978 it was used in manufacturing in the former state and today it is used in the Republic of Croatia 217 000 pounds, around. The most used in fruit growing, viticulture, multi-annual plantations older than 4 years, is used in warfare, mostly after the removal of grains to solve multi-annual weeds such as abutylon, ambrosia, pyrica, slak, meaning those species that other chemical products can or cannot be solved are very necessary for our agricultural producers. Also today, Croatian agriculture is of course for European green policies to be applied and implemented with us, and so are we from the HSS. However, the fact is that these policies cannot be done without the opinion and place and role of farmers. Well, we had an example of protests in Germany, Berlin, and I'm surprised that our agricultural producers didn't protest because there are always some new roles being imposed on agriculture, there are always new pressures, now there's pressure to reduce the use of pesticides in agriculture and of course there should be one such integrated approach to agricultural production, to design such models of production and agrotechnical measures where, with as little use of chemistry as possible, there will be an optimal contribution to achieve safe income for that agricultural producer. If that is not the case, then we are against it, then we ask that the European Commission does not reduce the budget for agriculture, then we are against the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Croatia reducing the budget for agriculture, but rather vice versa to ensure safe income for our agricultural producers for lost profits because it will reduce the chemistry in agriculture, reduce the use of pesticides, fertilisers and other preparations. Of course, these new policies must respect the opinion of agricultural producers. So here's my colleague Bulj asking you if you have consulted the opinion of agricultural producers, associations, Croatian agricultural chambers and other stakeholders in this area, the Faculty of Agriculture, Institutes and all those involved in this process? Because we at HSS insist that future laws regarding agriculture and agricultural production and food production must be consulted by the agricultural chamber, the association of farmers and all agricultural producers and that no law can be passed without them, but this is the place and role of the Ministry of Agriculture to finally form and establish a Croatian agricultural chamber, and they unfortunately have thrown it out of co-financing in the budget for this year, there is some minimum funding and it is certainly not good and it is not a good approach. Today, the agronomic profession and agricultural production are facing major challenges, and as much food as possible with as little agrochemical intake as possible. It is difficult, there needs a lot of knowledge, there needs lots and financial investments, from education to the regulation of the agricultural market itself. We are in favour of an ecological approach to ensure that food is sufficient, but at economically acceptable, affordable prices to our consumers and food safety, the safety and health of our people above all else. How do you reconcile that? It is not easy and it can only be with one scientific approach, with discussion and cooperation with everyone, it cannot be just a policy decision, the media, it must be one synergy, the common interest must be food production and consumer safety and the health of our citizens. And as long as there is doubt whether glyphosate has affected human health, on the one hand, the World Cancer Survey Agency cannot simply accept the decision of the European Commission or the European Food Safety Authority that there is no statistical evidence that says that glyphosate has no impact on health. And I certainly need to respect the profession, and I have done my best and thank the teachers of the Faculty of Agriculture who have enabled me to use their work and their study, so here from this paper I will read the main characteristics and chronology of what was happening in Europe regarding glyphosate. Namely, I said that we have strict conditions for the registration of active substances in Europe and the Republic of Croatia and all these products must, over a certain number of years, make a new authorisation for the next period. And it says in this paper that glyphosate sees more significant deviations from the prescribed procedure, so they provide chronology as indicated here. "Even in May 2012, Monsanto chose Germany as a rapporteur country to provide the European Commission with documentation for the re-opening of the authorisation for the use of glyphosate in Europe." The new consultations were requested and the temporary extension of the glyphosate authorisation for 2015, 2016 and 2017 respectively, and in March 2015. The World Cancer Research Organisation publishes a Monograph on the toxicology of 5 organophosphoric insecticides and on glyphosate which is classified as a substance likely to cause cancer in humans. Further research, new negotiations and consultations between different European bodies and members have been requested, and it was not possible to post a consensus, but rather not to want to vote but to extend, I said temporary permit for one year, and then to another. In March 2016, due to the discrepancies of the member states in the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Animals, the Commission is delaying the decision-making process, it points to Member States to agreeing on their views until a qualified majority achieves a single position or decision. This Decision shall enter into force on the The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety of the EU Parliament is calling for the opinion and finding of Monograph and is objecting and the EU Commission's proposal to extend the gliphosate's term of use to the next 15 years. Of course this does not go well in May 2016, the Commission partially respects Parliament's proposal, but proposes an extension to 10 years by a new implementing regulation. However, the Member States or the Member States of this body, when voting in June, fail to achieve a qualified majority and eventually comes to this decision to extend to another 2 years, by revoted 18-9 where Croatia was against the proposed decision and on this basis research has been commissioned to prove whether glyphosate is harmful to human health or not. We also have a court ruling in America where one person received $80 million in compensation for glyphosate poisoning. There's still about 10,000 lawsuits of citizens in America. At the same time, there has been a study carried out by their institute in America, Iowa, North Carolina, where 54 thousand respondents have not been proven to have a statistical relationship between cancer and glyphosate and as long as the profession is so divided, until it can be agreed, and the profession is often called under the influence of large companies, that this is often paid by companies that have money and cannot be trusted by these reports, especially since part of the experts refused to sign such a resolution, i.e. Monograph, which has been reported by the EU Commission by the International Cancer Research Agency. Therefore, we at HSS propose to create a moratorium for the further use of glyphosate in the Republic of Croatia as long as the profession and scientific approach does not prove one or the other, to be parallel to the education of our agricultural producers because we cannot prohibit them from using it as long as the product is registered, but we need to guide them when using glyphosate, in which cultures, to avoid what is common practice in Croatia, that I am not sure whether those 3 liters will be enough and another half liter added. That they should surely be directed to the correctness of their sprinklers because often one wing throws more, the other one less, and we have more pollution than is necessary and necessary, to ban glyphosate on public surfaces because it is mostly used on public surfaces, along rail lines and so on. what some countries have already done in Europe and certainly have to look to our consumers for such activities, for food consumers, but we must also provide income to farmers and find some alternatives. There is money here and the EU, and here, we propose that a scientific project be carried out that our experts from the Faculty of Agriculture, Veterinary, Ministry, the responsible faculty of medical or PMF and that an independent research be done because the fact that as long as companies order it, there is a reserve for such research and it certainly is not good to focus on them alone. And yes, it certainly needs to increase food, reduce in, produce food in Croatia, reduce imports, because the fact that we from Italy, which is now here, are infected, from where the Coronavirus pool is imported both fruits and vegetables in which There can certainly be a source of infection, so [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]] The profession and agriculture together. [[Intruder Reiner: He contacted us again on behalf of the Proposer...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188778	Dear Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188779	Thank you very much, colleague Vlaovic. Thanks for the constructive discussion. And the aim of my proposal was to constructively discuss the use of glyphosate in HS because it's not a question, I repeat that it has to move under the table, but it needs to be opened, and you said your position, openly, you said certain things about farmers and their attitude and the equality of our farmers in the use of chemicals, in this case we were talking about glyphosate. So that's all the things that we need to discuss and triangulate, and that's why Parliament and my intensity of this bill are to talk about this problem. This problem they are talking about in Austria has been decided by the House of Commons, although the decision on the ban has been made, but it has been sent to all EU members of the treaty that has with the EU, therefore, everything you have said, I accept that it is time for this to be spoken openly, through round tables, stands, I call on all the people you mentioned that they have given you academic and all farmers to engage in this matter, that Croatia finds the best solution, that at last 790 thousand square kilometres of unprocessed agricultural land be processed, that finally the Croatian village should live, I asked for a ban on the sale of agricultural land by foreign legal and physical persons, if Hungary can do so, why not Croatia? Because it's not just Europe's goal, and the EU's, as far as I can read it, and we all know that, agriculture production is just... for production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the survival of people in rural areas. That's why there are funds, and it's the other way around. In us, ever since we entered the EU, what is left of the people, is no longer engaged in agriculture but has gone to third countries, but the primary interest, that people are engaged in agriculture, to strengthen the village and peasants, you mentioned, that we are strengthening essentially, here, in some kind of threat, such as this case of coronaryvirus, we do not know how many threats they will have in terms of how much they will have to do with our agricultural production because, as you said, we are dependent on imports. I always mention my Sinj, the Cetino end and the Sinj field. Six thousand acres. The river Cetina flows through the middle of Sinjsko polje, and we import, and to Split, to Makarska, it is close by, we import pomivores from Italy. Either it's tomato, like someone says, or it's how someone says this tomato. We're importing pomidores from Italy, and the Sinj field under the weeds, is that reasonable? Here comes the man who comes to the summer, colleague Maras, this, what, is it better that she was a local pomitor from Sinjsko polje and that we have an additional value that our man remains alive we are not instructions of Sinjsko polje. And that is why we need to strengthen the Croatian village, and everything you said and the farmer's views of the tribune ask them, the attitudes of the profession, the attitudes, I agree, but this topic cannot be kept under the table. If this is being debated in other countries, if this is being discussed in an Austrian home and if it has made an Austrian home that decision to ban glyphosate, then I don't see any reason why we shouldn't discuss it, even if I was wrong, but he thinks this is an issue that we should discuss openly, publicly without fear of any multinational company that wants to control both seeds and food and herbicides and pesticides, everything. So we need to talk about this because the interest of all of us must be to survive people on agricultural land in rural areas from your parts of Slavonia all the way to Dubrovnik, we need to talk about it. So who's more relevant than us to talk. Do we have bad results and defeating results? Never more imports of EUR 2.5 billion, we import, export less than, we export this export more than, excuse us, we import EUR 1.5 billion more than we export and our production falls rapidly. And questions are asked what are the reasons? The reasons are cheap import lobbys that import cheap food the way it produces them. How much pork, my colleague, do you know that, is imported which is wounded by a strain treated with glyphosate and knows in what quantities? And what kind of cocktails are these Roundups? I have no idea. Up here in the South, down in South America. Well, there was a documentary recently, I watched it, it's disastrous how these people get sick down in those areas where they're treated with glyphosate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188780	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188781	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Bulj, a citizen's initiative by EU citizens, has signed a request for the European Commission and Parliament to implement the procedure and to ban the use of glyphosate in the EU. It says enough how interested the public is to approach this problem scientifically, to finally give the answer whether glyphosate cancerogen or not, whether it is harmful to health or not, but also to ensure the health care of food on the table of every European citizen, and finally we in Croatia must be interested in eating healthy food, unfortunately we import said a lot of fruits and vegetables outside Europe, questionable qualities and who controls whether there are residues of pesticides and those banned in Europe and Croatia, which are used in these countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188782	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188783	So that the Greenpeace Association, the association that has collected more than a million signatures, means that it is an association that is fighting for sustainable development, and we have all the conditions for sustainable development, we have the ability to help our farmers to protect this product, to be a product organically produced, and we really need to think about it that way. And this threat if it doesn't open our eyes, now this virus that not only health, which could cause problems and cause us to see what's going on and say, there should be no panic, but we and the parliamentary representatives need to discuss these issues, we should call for domestic food products, support our peasants, buy our homework and thus send messages from here and trust me that this people and we will all start moving things together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188784	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188785	Thank you very much. Mr Bulj, in your debate, and you have now mentioned one situation which is a fact, which is that regardless of whether you are in Croatia using these preparations, that a large majority of the import food or large size than all the import foods that are unfortunately imported into Croatia, since our agriculture has a downward trend for years and no matter how much incentives we receive from the EU, will be exposed to it and that we will end up using and wasting food treated with glyphosates. So this should be regulated in a different way in my view, but I am more inclined to do so at the level of all EU countries and then to make one general regulation, to somehow protect citizens from harmful possible influences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188786	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188787	You said exactly that the problem in Croatia is that we import EUR 2.5 billion of food products of questionable quality. In particular, I mentioned on several occasions Croatia imports a billion kunas of pork that feeds on a gliphosate-resistant shotgun or which are areas treated because imports are from Brazil. Soy buckshot is imported from South America, and it's a huge problem that we're eating glyphosate through animal meat. They have research that determines what this Greenpeace association has done and that in most of the countries on urine samples there are glyphosate in all inhabitants and that is over 50%, which means that we already have a good consumption of that food, harmful, imported over our import lobbies, and that these import lobbys of these vermin have a little side to the Croatian villages and peasants, today we have a lot of village and domestic products, and we wouldn't be threatened not to have any Food. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188788	Now we're moving on to an individual debate. The first will be spoken by a respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188789	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President, I will not speak for long because I have already said a lot of things in my replicas and more or less views are clear, it is a shame, and I have to notice almost daily in my discussions that the first topic on the agenda of HS that the government is proposing is almost and there is no, and let alone, let alone, that there are representatives of the ruling majority, I think this is really a curiosity that there is no one in the assembly other than the chairman of the HDZ and colleagues, a colleague from the HNS, it is all expensive what is left of the ruling majority. Regardless of Friday, regardless of the crisis situation in the Republic of Croatia, I think that this is simply a completely false message sent to Croatian citizens at times when we should have maximum confidence in the institutions of the Republic of Croatia and that we all deal together with the crisis that is happening to us. But let's now move on to this, to this topic and what my colleague Bulj said, I am absolutely inclined that if anything and possibly a complete ban would lead to great damage in agriculture or our farmers to put this under control, or that we have some kind of restrictions as well as more or less all European, European countries. Only Austria has banned full use and on this side may have made us a path to which we should go, which is to try to focus on the natural, on, on, on the production that I would say would be aimed at an increasingly larger and larger EU market because people at these times are quite focused on it and on what quality they are spending on. Austria did this as a small country, has a large share of agricultural production which, entirely, I would say, was devoid of any chemical products. So almost 20% of agricultural production is organic agriculture in, in, in Austria, the Republic of Croatia should go that way because Austria is also a country that has highly developed tourism and we want to compare with, with, such countries. What is also going on in this direction is also the European Parliament's thinking and initiatives heard in the European Parliament, and surely in 2022, there will be a serious consideration of how to deal with, with, with the treatment of agriculture, various chemical substances, and also with glyphosates here. So, on the other hand, it is possible that we will quickly come into a situation where the use of glyphosate in the EU is limited or completely abolished. I think it's trends, I think more, more and more support gets, gets every initiative, and so does this fellow Bulja, so that's probably what's waiting for us in the future. And on the other hand, I don't think it's a bad idea to discuss it, I think we should take everything into account, and that now we would probably spend the food that was treated somewhere else and agricultural products with glyphosates, so we wouldn't solve the general problem. For me, it is something that needs to be resolved in general in the EU market and in production, but also in consumption, that is, to limit food purchases with, with these properties. This cannot make the Republic itself and no matter what fellow Bulj sometimes as a revolutionary performs and tries to propose some things here, it cannot unfortunately in this constitution and, and our membership in the EU pass. It would be much better if we were to advocate as a country, perhaps it would be an opportunity to take advantage of the EU presidency which would be, which would be the leader in such things in the EU and try to isolate at EU level to make things that way, or assumptions because to adopt this law as Austria, believe me, given the structure of our agriculture 90% of our food would be treated again because unfortunately we are not Austria, which is trying and succeeding in this way, in this way to organise its agriculture. In our country agriculture has been devastated for years and today we do not have what we should have as one country that has quite rich, rich resources of agriculture and could defacto cover by producing everything that, which we spend, we are far from it, we have turned unfortunately into a country that spends quite often and products of low quality, we have seen this in recent years when the current situation and the initiative of a representative in the European Parliament, Biljana Borzana, who pointed to the problem of product quality in Croatia and Germany. Instead of solving this, that the state regulates, that the state defends, we had to have a solo initiative of a European representative who, with her European Parliament resources, managed to prove and pressure the public to force large corporations to also offer quality products in the Republic of Croatia as they offer in Italy or Germany, so where they come from. So on this side, it might not be bad for colleagues from Bulj and, and other clubs in HS to support such an initiative and to try to influence our representatives in the European Parliament, perhaps today when we are discussing it for a year and a half to be obliged by representatives in the Croatian Parliament, that this will lead to a restriction on the use of glyphosate in the EU area, both in production and in consumption, because we must be aware that the adoption of this law would not solve the problem in the Republic. The adoption of this law would bring about a slight shift, and it would bring a lot of problems for our farmers because they have no alternative in certain substances how to, how to produce, so I think that this is one thing that we should generally solve in the field of the entire EU or to act as a community, because with such a large market, then no one could ever ignore us again and adapt to the rest of us. So probably the American companies you mention in your discussions would take great care of what products and what kind of products I would say the preparations offer on that market if we, as the EU, regulate them. And that's why we are in one big market, and that's why we joined Croatia to be part of the first league, and that's why we try to set the preconditions for our citizens to live in conditions like those of the world's most developed countries. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188790	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188791	Dear Vice-President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, the debate on glyphosate is certainly necessary, but we must start with that other premise, i.e. that all pesticides are mostly carcinogenic. And what we should do now means to eliminate complete chemistry in agriculture, and I'm asking you what would look like agricultural production that has so failed in all sectors of the Republic of Croatia. What's important about glyphosate is that they use it mostly where genetically modified production happens, i.e. the production of genetically modified seed as a herbicide for the removal of weeds. In the Republic of Croatia if you have read the registration of glyphosate i.e. some under the commercial name of the gliphosate base, glyphosate is not used for such a purpose, not even used for event purposes. For the event in Croatia we have Reglone forte which is not glyphosate but is a diquat and it is prescribed that crop events such as soybean, rapes, potatoes and other things. The fact that some of our farmers may be using glyphosate for the event is another story and it's a matter of inspection and analysis of the agricultural products we produce. Thus, glyphosate is not a problem in the agricultural production of the Republic of Croatia but is a problem in what is being imported because we do not have any control and control over the foods that we import into the Republic of Croatia, which we assume to contain a large amount of glyphosate since, for example, soybean shotgun coming from Argentina, Brazil or America, where it is mostly grown in a way that seeds are genetically modified, this is not what we are talking about. We are not even talking about the fact that all the soybeans that GMOs are free in Croatia, and in order to get support, you have to submit a confirmation to the paying agency that you sowed genetically unmodified soybeans, are mainly exported. That's one problem. Unfortunately, people who go into these discussions often do not education well and speak quite wrongly, not in a bad way, but in order to understand the use of glyphosate in Croatia then you must be close to production or production itself. I'm like a dipl. Inj. agronomy and as a agricultural producer, I don't usually use glyphosate, but we do have branches in agricultural production where we create another problem by eliminating glyphosate overnight. What will people do, say, who do fruit growing and winemaking without glyphosate? They will use cocktails of some other means for the breadth of the breadth, for the buds of the year, and then we have made an even bigger problem, we use even more chemistry, instead of educating our producers, to make a commitment that only 1/3 of the intermediate gap can be a herbicidal belt, to educate them to use the urea by 50% reduces the amount of glyphosate needed to contain the weeds. There are also non-agricultural areas treated with glyphosate to remove weeds. Because to remind you, glyphosate is a non-selective systemic herbicide that, by applying to the plant, is adopted into the plant and entered into the root and destroys that plant entirely. As long as the funds as Reglone is contactable and he only frys what is green doesn't destroy the weeds, root and allows the multi-annual weeds to continue to develop. Glyphosate is used in Croatia to destroy hard-core weeds on the scales, meaning when cultures like wheat are exported, barley, so grains are then some weeds that cannot be destroyed or need large quantities of other herbicides to be destroyed in this way are far easier to destroy. Again I say education, some additional means that help to make glyphosate more active and use it less. Of course, in some recent future, he will be expelled from use, but then we must also give our agriculture an alternative. Unfortunately, there has been a lot of talk today about organic farming. We have some organic farming, however, we have no organic product. And then when you create an organic product, try to produce 200, 300 tons of organic corn, which, after taking off the field, I have to go for drying, I ask you where you're going to drive it? Where are you going to dry it? Where are you going to store it? And in the end, who are you going to sell it to? You'll sell it at the same price as the conventional corn. So the organic production and the truth about organic production are deep water, and I don't think the agriculture ministry has done a good job there and has not well directed environmental production. Today, it serves many people to draw money in the form of support, so let's say we have a crop of 300 acres of nuts where you can't raise nuts for two loins. And the support is huge and it's our organic production. Manufacture without product. That way, we won't do a transformation of our agriculture. The transformation from conventional to ecological or integrated agriculture takes a long time, all sectors should be involved and only then will our farmers be involved in this transformation. So let's explore glyphosate, determine what's really true about glyphosate, rule it out from use, but only after we create an alternative. Let us not make it more difficult for our agricultural producers than it should be because these people are fighting on the European market today, most of our corn, soybeans and other olives end up in Italy or in some part of Europe. They operate on a market principle and unless we can compete with them, there will be further collapse and this wartime part of agriculture that lives for as long as possible. But, like I said, replacing the glyphosate are, to get... more new funds, more resources that have to destroy the weeds and we need to weigh it as much as possible for us, whether it is better to extend the action of this glyphosate, i.e. use with education so that it can reduce its quantity or simply throw it out of use and leave it to agricultural producers to manage, and it will be achieved in a more expensive way because the ratio of glyphosate and, let's say, Diquat, i.e. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Reglonea is about 1:10 in price, not to say which other combinations they need. And that's how we disrupt the competitiveness of our farmers. Let's think about what we're doing. I'm normally not for carcinogenic agents, but unfortunately we're where we are, a lot of things are carcinogenic around us, and many of the drugs we use to lower temperatures have epithets that are carcinogenic. It seems that all chemistry that is unnatural, carcinogenic but, however, we need to weigh what we want. Whether we want to have available food at a good price or we want to have healthy food that will be small, we will pay it dearly, and yet we will be under a large questionnaire, whether it is really organically produced and whether it is really that healthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188792	We have replicas. He is the first respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188793	Thank you. A colleague, all plant protection products can be dangerous, not all carcinogenic, they are under strict regimes registered for use in Croatia and Europe and if used under the prescribed conditions, are not dangerous or less dangerous if used at the right time and for all precautions because if so, we have a cooking salt that can be toxic, if used in large quantities. So, there you should see that first of all, it measured the amount. When it comes to glyphosate, after its microbiological degradation in the foods that have been analysed, it remains somewhere in the micrograms of this Herbicide in these products. So, we need to see if this microgram has really affected health, all the analyses that have been made, published and independent analyses are to be carried out, as announced to be made independent. an analysis by our state bodies. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188794	The answer of the esteemed representative Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188795	I thank my colleague Vlaovic. As I said, at this point, education is the first to be made, but not in a repressive way, but it should explain to people that if they are good sprayers, if they know how much to use, and not that, in any case, we add 20, 30% more because sometimes with quality sprayers, with a high drop in sprinklers, with good pressure and schedule can be reduced by 20, 30% by the amount of herbicides that are used today, and that would be the same effect. I think there's a first thing to do and then after scientific study and proof of what glyphosate is wearing, if it's really that high carcinogenicity, normally it needs to be abolished and started. Agricultural production in Croatia will not fail if we abolish it, currently But she'll be very difficult. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188796	The next replica is the esteemed MPs, Macar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188797	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear fellow, I must say that there was virtually no sentence in which I could not agree with your debate because in some way you have tried to actually see what the harmfulness of the glycophosphate is, and in fact, what it does not bring is not applicable to our agriculture, or what it means if it is abolished in Croatia at this point, and therefore I believe that you have detected it well and I am still interested in it, whether you think it has already been adopted that some countries will ban application since '22, '23, whether yet an objective additional analysis could contribute to proving, however, that it is objectively seen that it can continue to be applied in one correct way using all the measures or we will go back to another extreme to ban it, and at the same time, Let's replace something else... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188798	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188799	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I went to this very professional side of the debate, but also from the manufacturer's side, although I said that I mostly don't use it, but sometimes for some schizophrenics when I solve such weeds yes, in very small quantities. At this point and the discussions that are being held, the glyphosate is time-limited and the question is only after which time it will be abolished, but what I hope by then will be found is an alternative that will allow our agricultural producers the same protection from weeds and not be poisoned so much. One who won't be so poisoned, doesn't exist, doesn't currently have chemistry like that. But we don't have the workforce, we don't have how to get rid of hard-core weeds in vineyards and orchards, we're only left to chemistry and mechanical way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188800	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188801	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm actually going to pick up where I left off in that first replica of mine when I said I was like my colleague Bulj, and I believe the other MPs here in the assembly are really a big supporter of healthy food. But that's not enough just to say because, of course, at the level of some logical if you say you're for healthy food compared to unhealthy food, nothing weird or anything too smart. But if we see the habits of our citizens that I also mentioned when they go out to get food, then we regularly see those shelves in the shops where there's healthy food, there's no one around them, and that citizens regularly gather around those foods that may not be the most healthy. Of course the reason is the price. How to get into this, we have already touched a little bit, in my opinion, primarily on education, on the education of adults and on the education of farmers and on the economic policy in agriculture, which will encourage farmers to produce healthy food, while not losing themselves on the market and thus not being less competitive. Because if the price of healthy food is immeasurably higher than the price of unhealthy food, conditionally speaking unhealthy because it also passes by, of course, the Food Agency and gets the green light, therefore conditionally speaking, then, of course, every economic logic led by it focuses on producing what is cheaper, which brings it more profit, and I guess the state and public health leave it to care for the health of citizens. Therefore, everyone in the food production and consumption chain must be educated, from farmers to citizens, to those who formulate the country's economic or agricultural policy. If one of those links in the chain isn't at the level of his task, unfortunately the chain shoots and all we're saying is empty and empty words. And it is particularly important that from the very beginning we educate our children in schools through school programs on the importance of healthy food. Some of these programs we have, but the programme that we also intended to introduce so health program as part of civic education should be focused on each other and on these segments very important for every person who grows up, who comes into life and tomorrow will make their own decisions about what kind of food they will eat or not eat, and at the same time they will be bombed marketingly by large corporations with ads that encourage the purchase of unhealthy food. So raising the awareness of citizens doesn't begin in their adult development of life, but when children are open to hearing really what's important for tomorrow's decisions they're going to make. GMO food, I am not a supporter of GMO food, but on the other hand there is no clear scientific evidence as much as and how it harms human health, but until we know for sure that we need to be much, much more careful than when we have scientific confirmation that it is not harmful. But today, it is still in the trails of many foods and many products that we consume, and we do not link them to healthy, GMO food. Let's say in the tablets that you're taking if they're gel tablets, that envelope was made of, among other things, substances that have been genetically modified and produced. So it's not just the food you buy at the supermarket, it's a lot of other things that we're putting into ourselves that we consume, which are already more or less in terms of GMOs. Moreover, it is quite clear already today, and medicine teaches us that today’s diseases are well conditioned by the diet we use. And whether it's cardiovascular diseases, which is already generally known, and whether it's even oil consumption, plant oil that's thermally processed, changes composition and becomes transmastic acid, or fat that the body doesn't recognize because evolution just hasn't learned about it, and the fried oil started in vegetable fats, vegetable oils somewhere in the 1950s. The human organism exists much longer than that, we know that pork or other fat used before that. Equally, autoimmune diseases are well caused by nutrition and therefore the diet is not irrelevant, which is why it is important and must become an integral part of the curricula in schools in order for children to become aware of its significance at the earliest age. What is also important when we talk about glyphosates is to say that Croatia is also present, especially in Croatia, which is, of course, represented as much as I hear in most of the agricultural households that are therefore engaged in agriculture, and therefore, because science does not offer us really accurate or verified data whether it is carcinogenic or not, whether it is harmful to human health or not, we still need to limit it until we know for sure. Because if we have two institutions, one that deals with cancer research, and another European who deals with food with two completely different points of view about the same thing, then of course, citizens who are not experts, and we keep swearing to the profession and we have to listen to the advice of the profession, and now the question is, and what is the profession, if one expert says one thing, is that it's harmful to health, and other experts say with the same competences, colleges, research behind them, another, what is the profession? What are you guys up to? What are you leading as a politician to decide on behalf of the citizens who elected you? So the waist isn't something that we can hide behind every time and every time and say, we don't have any responsibility because the waist said it. So, while science clearly confirms to us that gliphosphate is not harmful, I think we need to be careful. As long as we are in doubt, we should simply push it away from ourselves and in this context, I also support this proposal that goes on to limit or ban the used glyphosate in agriculture because in the end, we bring it into ourselves. A European debate is mentioned, yes, it was very intense, especially in the EU parliament. The compromise proposal was really to limit, what the Commission also proposed, for 15 years to be a licence for the use and sale of agricultural products containing and glyphosate, or in its production it was, treated with it, 7 years is also, many, but well, there is a fence that says that at any time it can withdraw that licence if it is proven that it is harmful to health. So, we still have no evidence, but in such a situation I always strive to be more careful and not wait for it to explode in a bad sense of the word, the health situation in our country or Europe, but to be much more careful and to actually wait for confirmation whether it is really okay to extend that time when and how much use it can be. A million European citizens who have signed a petition to really limit this herbicide, is not a small thing, is not a negligible thing, and I think that every politician or representative of the citizens in our Parliament, as well as in the European Parliament, must consider it because profit production is not the only thing that should lead to human race in its development. Health is something that we all consider to be one of the most important values, the most important rights at the end, the citizens, which is codified in various constitutions, and our Constitution also speaks of the right to health, or even international conventions mention it, as well. It should not be ignored because only those who lose their health or whose health is impaired realize how important it is. Now, as responsible persons, I think we should all be so mature to realize that health is not to play with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188802	Thank you. Next individual debate... Oh, I'm sorry, we have one replica, the esteemed representative of Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188803	Thank you. Dear colleague Klisovic, you have said a good word here, in this case, that is consciousness, the awareness of citizens, but also the awareness of producers. Because, as you said, profit is what everyone runs for in every production, and so is in this farm. So let's say, if you're using Reglon, that's about 700 kn per hectare, if you're using glyphosate, that's about 150 to 200 kn per hectare, so the difference is 500 kn per hectare, so the number of hectares, and now we're coming back to that manufacturer's consciousness. Whether he'll go with a glyphosate that needs to dry soy for 3 weeks, but he'll probably get into the fruit itself, or he'll use Reglone, who's doing it in a short time, even though he'll leave a certain chemical trail in it. So that's where it's supposed to weigh, depending on the consciousness of the people who produce and sell it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188804	Dear Representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188805	Thank you very much. Yeah, you're right, you're a colleague of Lenart's. That's what we call socially responsible business or socially responsible production. So she's not just with big companies, multinational, wealthy companies, where our eyes are usually against each other. It is, in fact, socially responsible business is the business of every company, every family economy, so everyone who contributes to the production of something that is consumed on the market. They say people run two things. In English it sounds necessary or greyed. So need or greed, that these are the main motivators of human activity. The need for food is therefore evident. Food production for profit is actually driven by greed, so gred. No more need. But to all of us, and especially to the politicians of the Assembly, it is real to contribute to the education of our citizens and not to treat every real The proposal for a law as a populist. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188806	The next individual debate is a respected representative of Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188807	Dear Chairman, he asked MP Lenart how to avoid the use of chemicals in agriculture, or he said, yes, ha I believe that cidokor is harmful to people, but other chemicals are also harmful. And he actually asked a crucial question, I would dare say the question of all the issues in agriculture, which is why today, agriculture today, is unimaginable without the use of a number of chemicals. The answer to that question is essentially simple. The point is that today's under quotes, modern agriculture is aimed at monoculture, meaning the planting of identical cultures. You have, like, an orchard with apples in it. Or an orchard containing only plums or orchards containing only hazelnuts. Or a field where only wheat, only corn, only soy, etc. But where does the problem arise? The problem arises is that when a specific pest occurs to you that attacks only one culture, for example, A leper that attacks hazelnuts. If you have hectares and hectares only of hazelnuts, it will spread from the tree to the tree, it will simply destroy your entire orchard, or the entire plantation of hazelnuts. The only way to save yourself in that case are chemicals, and yet, if you use chemicals, then you'll have other problems, ultimately and health, for yourself. What's the answer, what's the answer? The answer is to plant in polyculture, the answer is to plant 20 different cultures on one hectare instead of one culture. Involved. Yeah. And then when you have a polyculture, when you have resistant varieties, for example. apples that don't need chemical treatment, and then there's no need to treat chemicals anymore. And that's the solution I found in Karlovac, so when I started fruit growing, everyone said you can't do it without the chemicals, you can't do it without the chemicals, but then I asked, which is the solution, for example. a peach solution that, whose leaf is sealed because of that fungi of Taphrine deformities, and the solution is to obtain peaches that are resistant to curly leaves. And the solution to the plum that attacks the krill virus is to obtain a plum that is resistant to the krill and when you plant in a polyculture, then you will see that the pest is actually almost gone because you created a natural and normal eco-system. What we have today, these monocultures, they're not natural and normal eco-systems. It's a crazy system, it's a system in which, a system in which you have only one species and you spend a sea of chemicals to suppress all possible pests that wouldn't appear in that area if you were planting in a polyculture. Also, I'd like to give you an example of fighting the weeds I saw on Brač Island. Namely, to me dear friend Ivica Franceschi of Brač, he, his parents are shepherds, have sheep, however, do not have much land and the question is actually how to feed all these sheep. The answer is that their friends, neighbors, relatives, who already have an olive land, or olive groves, and they have an agreement with olivers, simply let the sheep into the olive grove and actually the sheep solve all the roots in the olive grove and at the end of the year still get the owners of olives and some cheese, etc. Most of the time, in Brač they solved the crusts in the olive groves not by physical labor, that people are now struggling with it, not with the machinery and not with the chemicals. But they simply released the most common animals, sheep of which they would benefit multiplely. That's the way to stop the weeds, that's the way to fight the weeds. However, today's agriculture is not looking for a solution that is natural, today's nature is not looking for a solution that is thousands of years old, but is inventing new solutions that are neither more than 100 years old, and all these solutions are shared that are toxic to humans, animals, after all, and to the plant world. And what's going on. And what happens to you is that when you spray the earth with these poisons, eventually you kill all, all the microorganisms in that country. That land is becoming dead. And she becomes so dead that no more fertilizer artists can produce fruit, so much dead, that you have to plow it all the time because there are no more moles in it, no more worms, no more who just loosen it up anymore. And, in the end, I would like to commend counsel Bulj for touching this topic because it is a really important topic. I fully support his bill to ban glyphosates. It's one smart decision, and I can say that my colleague Bulj saw what we all know, he just beat all of us and gave a concrete bill, which he actually went from words to concrete deeds. However, the ruling one will again say that Miro Bulj is only criticising, not giving concrete ideas, or proposals, but this proposal showed that Miro Bulj is making a concrete proposal and a concrete solution. However, any solution that does not correspond to those currently holding the levers of power or the ends of power will be rejected. Thus, this proposal by Mira Bulja will also be rejected by the ruling majority. I believe that food control, or having healthy food, is the most important thing for a country, and we gave it up. Instead of encouraging people in colleges to have knowledge of which they can benefit from, we today from primary school to university actually have little to do with food production. Agriculture is depicted as something that is backwards, something that is dealt with by uneducated people, something that does not concern each of us, etc., and the truth is the other way around. The truth is something, the truth is that to deal with agriculture, it's true that without food, we'll all starve and the truth is that without healthy food, we'll all be sick and the truth is that this question should be of interest to everyone and that we should all deal with agriculture as much as anyone can. I planted all kinds of fruit in Karlovec. I even have an Indian banana, some apple, our, or Asian pear, Mongolian blueberry, 13 hazelnuts, 3 almonds, I planted 7 varieties of apple resistant, I planted 3 peaches resistant to curly leaves, plums resistant to carrots, two, I planted some homemade varieties, and I actually even planted pistachios, there's nothing I didn't plant. But why? Because I love the country, because this is my country, this is my country, this is my country, my people living here, my people, I want to live here, I don't want to go anywhere, I'm looking at the future for 5 years. And that's what the state needs to encourage every family and who has a country to give them seedlings. The third I forgot, I planted one six cherry, seven actually, one of them is white on the outside. So, fruit is really a miracle, fruit is grateful, plant in polyculture, no need for chemicals, plant resistant varieties, and you and your children will enjoy sweet fruit and sweet food and then you won't have to chase shopping centres when panic breaks out like this moment with the crown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188808	We have one replica of Honorable Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188809	Dear colleague Pernar, I support your farming, I hope you will consume these fruits from what you have planted. But I'd like you to try to live off five acres of land like I'm 5. I've lived, raised children, so I'd ask if it's possible with that polyculture that you represent? Unfortunately, people who are engaged in agriculture have to pay and bills, have expenses, children, family and everything, and it would be nice if they could live off such a simple life without having to spend on means of protection, not having to spend on other things, if they could live on what nature gives. But on the globe, there are already 7.5 billion of us, unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia, there are still fewer and still enough that we can't produce as much food as we need. And unfortunately, it is not realistic to expect this way of agriculture to live and what is a tragedy in Croatian agriculture and in some other branches that everyone in Croatia understands in agriculture, football and politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188810	Dear Representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188811	Your Honor, I would like to tell you that for the fact that in the Republic of Croatia it is difficult to live in a natural way, it is not nature's fault, it is the authority that made it impossible, the authority that does not want to meet people, the authority that does not care at all how farmers will sell their goods, the authority that holds an unreal course, high impositions, etc. And what's what, what's the biggest tragedy today, is that about such an important topic as the use of glyphosate herbicides that's proven to be poisonous and harmful, there are only four of us here in a meeting with Mr. Reiner's 5 chairman and there's a question of what's going on with other agents, are they not interested in this topic or are they all in that protective isolation from the Coronus virus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188812	Thank you very much. Now the word will be taken by Honorable Representative Miro Bulj on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188813	Thank you very much. Here, I welcome your endurance. Here's the secretary of state and his co-worker and your fellow MPs, all three of us, now there are five of us, known to be Friday, the weekend is, regardless of the crown virus and all the recommendations I think every Friday when it's not voting is a similar atmosphere, but I expect that we MPs will now show seriousness and now that there are no schools and other things in the fight with that, with this virus, that we Assembly representatives will show sobriety and we will be here at the workplace and we will try to reduce that panic, but also point to problems and discuss these problems as discussed today. I would finally thank everyone who listened to me, I'm sorry that no one from the government came out here or anything. The Prime Minister could have given his position all the time. I would thank all those who gave constructive and criticism and all those who had said that, yet no one had said this classically about glyphosate except the gentlemen of the HDZ Club, these others said that my intensity should be discussed and the goal was to encourage this topic and the discussion of the glyphosate problem, if we need to know that, personally, I am against the use of glyphosate, to ban imports, transport, trade and production of GMOs, I have also given this law, a ban on selling agricultural land to foreigners, do I think that unprocessed land is our most valuable gold. I come from the neighborhood, here's a colleague mentioned earlier, where there are also small areas and plots, there's been very difficult survival, but people have lived from agriculture on these plots. It is possible if we all process this land to increase food production because this threat speaks to a message that I will always repeat, and probably to you because we are all representatives of the people. The people have chosen us in this Parliament, that we are, we are all sending a message to buy domestically, we produce, we protect above all the safety and health of the contradictions there is, is the World Health Organization saying that it is possible for the cause of the tumor that this glyphosate is, and we have the verdict in America that glyphosate is this, the company is punished i.e. Bayern and, Bayer and Monsanto. So we do, so we have contradictions while on the other hand the European Food Safety Authority says that's not the case. So we have these lobbyists, we have influences, we have opportunities to develop agricultural production that is not harmful, which is organic. I'm sorry there weren't any colleagues here earlier from HDZ who claimed that this is populism what I'm proposing. I say let them be tests, let them be tested with glyphosate, and with it, and let them see the consequences. I believe that we will find solutions, organic food producers always tell us colleagues and colleagues that it means that even glyphosate is not needed they repeat that Austria is an example for an effective production. Agriculture in the future is to co-operate with nature, not against nature. Glyphosta is the enemy of nature, we're tripping from that point of view. We have to look for all the elements to work with the nature of the tree and before the glyphosate there have always been chemical resources long ago, however, it is also a fact that we must start to rely on biodiversity and a large variety of different crops and structures, about which he was recently a colleague and spoke, avoiding in this innumerable monoculture that attracts intruders and replanting in fields that allow the development of parasites in the land in plants. We have an association which means she raised that question in, at a level collected, Greenpeace, was collected during a million signatures. This is the topic that will still be discussed, I believe that the government will coordinate the opinion within the Republic of Croatia and Croatia's EU position is that when we voted on the European Commission's proposal, Croatia is one of the 9 countries that was against it, and I see that the ruling party is not very opposed here, but even if they consider this proposal to be a law and debate on this law to be a populist. I believe that this will be harmonised, because this is how it becomes a contradiction, and first of all I want to send a message, let's buy a local, we produce a domestic agricultural, we use domestic agricultural capacities, 790,000 hectares of unenclosed land, and I invite you colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives to accept this proposal, and everyone who knows something from experts to farmers who can be involved to finally preserve nature from enemies of nature, and all for the purpose of protecting the health of our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188814	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-13-0.u188815	And let's go to the last proposal we're voting on, that's the bill on the ban on glyphosate, first reading, P.Z. No. 751. The promoter is MP Miro Bulj, the debate is closed. In accordance with the opinion of the Government and the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on the prohibition of glyphosate is not accepted. Who's against it? Who's restrained? And who's in? I find that the majority of the votes reached a conclusion according to the government's opinion and the proposal of the parliamentary working body, and the result was 88 for, 6 abstentions and 30, I don't see, 30 against. We have reached the end of the vote, and I thank you all for your very correct and disciplined conduct. Now we're going to take a 10 minute break so that those who want to leave the room. We continue with free speech by clubs and independent representatives, and after that, the debate is united on the SDP's crisis-related set of laws. We continue, most likely, almost 100%, in the building of the Croatian Parliament at Mark's Square on Wednesday, 15th, the day before we will have a session of the presidency. Thank you very much. I'd like to invite my colleague, Anta Sanader, to take over the presidency. Thank you. It's a date. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats and please just a little attention. In view of the situation related to the coronary virus, we also have to adapt to the Croatian Parliament's new conditions. Follow the situation that is really dramatic in some countries in our environment, in order to avoid such a scenario as this. in Italy, we must stick very strictly to the rules and recommendations that we have received from the competent state authorities. So I ask you to be responsible, serious, solid and to show by our own example that the state can function well and that it must function well. I repeat again, we strictly adhere to the rules and recommendations of the competent state bodies, but I ask you to stick to the recommendations we made here at the Parliament's secretariat, so there are no physical contact handling, to disinfect your hands, and to hold the gap that we have defined here in sitting. Those who have health problems, who either cough or have respiratory problems, headaches, throataches, temperatures should not be and should not be in the Croatian Parliament. Our mission is to pass laws that will ensure the implementation of measures proposed by the Government, as regards health security, in general the security of citizens. Today we will also discuss a set of laws regarding economic measures, responsible approach, rational debates, serious debates we will show to the Croatian public that we can deal with responsibility and ask that we all be together at the level necessary to leave and send one quality message. We must also be effective and efficient and do in the fastest and best possible way all that is required of us, and once again, our key task is to pass the law. The plan for today is as follows, so first we will complete the agenda, then we will vote on the Civil Protection System Act, then we will have free debates, where I would only ask that we be brief and clear and that we do not have too many free discussions so that we can go to a united debate on a set of government laws regarding economic measures. This would take a while until the debate was over, tomorrow morning we would have amendments to the proposed laws and then at 12 o'clock we would vote on all those laws and on those we discussed before. As for journalists, I also welcome them, we will make statements in the hall "Ivan Kukuljevic", so it is that glass hall where presses are held, you have seen that there are no journalists and cameras outside the entrance because we all have to follow these measures, so anyone who makes statements, please give these statements in the hall "Ivan Kukuljevic". As for the replica, so this is now sitting as we sit, just to tell you the rules of replicating after the opening, the prime minister will come here and the finance minister will be here, so all of you sitting here are replicating from the scene, those MPs sitting on the side will be speaking from the last microphone here on the government side or on this side, and you in the gallery will have to talk a little louder and louder to hear you because if we put the microphones up there coming up to the microphone and then the sound is unclear and the speakers react badly. But we've already tried, some colleagues have tested a little bit as it sounds, and it was fine, it's sounding good. Here, I think that's it. Now we're going to move on to the proper article. 226.St. 2. The Rules of Procedure will be amended to supplement the 16th session agenda with a 21st new point. You have received a proposal to supplement the agenda by electronic means, Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure set out firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure, and here all points of the proposed addition of the agenda are submitted by emergency procedure. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law of the proposed amendment to the agenda? No one is present, this means that a proposal for an emergency procedure has been accepted, in accordance with Article. 205. The Rules of Procedure and I shall establish that all the proposed items are included in the agenda of the 16th session. We are now going to: - Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Civil Protection System Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 860 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. In accordance with the agreement of the representatives' clubs on this legislative proposal, we will not conduct a debate. With us came the Minister of the Ministry of Interior and Deputy Prime Minister, respected Davor Bozinovic, but we agreed that I should read only an article that is changing. Therefore, Article 22a is added to the Civil Protection System Act. which reads: “1. In the event of the occurrence of specific circumstances involving events or a certain situation which could not be predicted and which could not be affected, which endangers the life and health of citizens, the property of greater value, significantly disrupts the environment, economic activity or causes significant economic damage to the headquarters of the Civil Protection of the Republic of Croatia, the decisions and instructions carried out by civil protection headquarters and units of local and regional (regional) self-government. 2. The decisions and instructions referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be taken to protect the life and health of citizens, to preserve property, economic activity and the environment and to balance the conduct of legal persons and citizens." Article 2 of this law shall enter into force on the first day of its publication in the National Journal, and we have agreed with the National Journal to do so immediately after the vote and the signature of the competent persons. So I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law supplementing the Civil Protection System Act. So the vote is for you who are down by electronic means, and up there we have five counters for each section of the assembly that will then inform me about, about who is for, who is against and who is abstention. So first, I ask you to vote electronically for this Proposal for a Law supplementing the Civil Protection System Act. You can publish, well, here we have 67 for, 5 abstentions and 1 against. Now I'm going to ask which one of the legislators for the bill, raise his hand on the gallery and on the side of those who are. 9, 9, 13, so please just 9, 9, 9, 9 is 27 and 13 is 40 and 1, 41. Who's restrained? All right, you can give me one, one good. And who's against it? 0 versus, which is 8, 0, good. Now can you just tell me how long it's finally been? Therefore, I find that most of the votes 108 for and 1 against and 6 abstentions have been passed by the Law supplementing the Civil Protection System Act. So we did it.
