ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188580	Thank you, well-respected president of HS, respected MPs and MPs. Today there is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, one of the basic reasons for amending and supplementing the Insurance Act is to align it with the acquis of the EU. In order to fulfil the obligations of consistent transposition of Solvency II Directive, which the EU has indicated to the Republic of Croatia, the kuna amounts in the Insurance Act have been replaced by amounts in euro in order not to be required to prepare amendments and additions to the Insurance Act each year. Furthermore, the draft law amends the provisions relating to the calculation of the minimum necessary capital, the conditions to be met by insurance companies in order to qualify as small companies and amounts included in large risks, in such a way that kuna amounts are replaced by euro amounts, with an indication of the conversion into kuna equivalent to the average CNB rate applicable on the last day of October of the previous year. In addition, in order to ensure uniform application of the Insurance Act, the second insurance distribution directive set out in kuna amounts in the Insurance Act will also replace the amounts in euro. Furthermore, since the bilateral agreement between the EU and the US on prudential measures for insurance and reinsurance entered into force in April 2018, the Republic of Croatia, as well as all other EU Member States, must not impose any conditions of business established for the business of US resecuritisation companies in the area of the Republic of Croatia, and in this respect the provisions of this law have been amended. Furthermore, the proposal for a law provides for the obligation to proceed with the prior approval by the HANFA to perform its duties as members of the Supervisory Board, insurance company, conditions and to suspend and suspend the approval of members of the Supervisory Board, thus ensuring a standard for the performance of members of the Supervisory Board by direct verification of those conditions, given the role and importance of the Supervisory Board in the Insurance Society. It is also possible for Leasing companies to carry out insurance distribution operations on behalf of one or more insurance companies or by order of the party. Amendments and harmonised infringement provisions have also been made and part of the provisions have been developed for the sake of clarity and nomotechnical improvement of certain provisions. Finally, it was proposed that the law enter into force on the 8th day of its publication in the National Journal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188581	We don't have a replica, so I'd like to call the committee's reporters if they want to take the floor. No, I don't. I am opening the debate, the first is the respected Ivan Lovrinović, A Club of Representatives of the Living Wall, and Let's change Croatia, as it is gone, loses the right to speak. The second is the Club of Representatives of the SDP Boris Lalovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188582	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Here, today, we have a proposal for a law on insurance that is passed in order to comply with the directive, so-called. Solvency II, in order to fulfil further compliance obligations. The most important part concerns the harmonisation of the currency ratio, i.e. that all kuna amounts are replaced by the amounts in euro so that this law should not be amended each year. Furthermore, following the fulfilment of the obligation to apply the Directive, the draft law amends the provisions relating to the calculation of the minimum necessary capital, the conditions to be met by insurance companies in order to qualify as small companies and the amount included in large risks in such a way as to replace the kuna amounts in euro with the indication of the recalculation. It applies here, i.e. to change the calculation of the minimum necessary capital, but it seems to me that all insurance houses already now have their capital at the level of these directives, so you can also confirm that there will be no significant change in the insurance market related to their additional level of capital. In addition, in order to simplify the application of the Insurance Act in the distribution of insurance listed in kuna amounts, they are also replaced by amounts in euro and, most notably, amounts to insurance premiums, amounts to insurance against professional liability and amounts to the available financial assets of intermediaries. Also, as mentioned here, as it came into force in 2018, the Bilateral Agreement between the EU and the United States on prudential measures for insurance, the reinsurance of the Republic of Croatia, as well as all other Member States, must not leave their legislation subject to any additional conditions to US insurance companies in the area of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Eopia has the power to regularly review the amounts of professional liability insurance and the needs of available financial resources, insurance and reinsurance intermediaries, and all to take into account changes in the EU consumer price index published by Eurostat so that from 2013 to 2017, the consumer consumer consumer price index was around 4,03% and it is corrected every 5 years. Moreover, what is being said here is that the obligation to obtain the necessary approval from the Agency for the performance of functions means that HANFE should be licensed to be a member of the Supervisory Board. Also.../incomprehensible/... termination and withdrawal of authorisation to perform the duties of members of the Supervisory Board. This is only one follow-up since all the institutions that are actually controlled by HANFA mean pension societies and Leasing houses, etc., all need to be approved by HANFE not only for a member of the Board but also for the Supervisory Board, so that this directive actually extends that part of the powers of HANFE to members of the Supervisory Board. The last amendment applies also to allowing the Leasing company to have in one or more insurance companies, and by order of the party to carry out insurance distribution operations. It is very important here that it be, and we had this debate on the board yesterday, that it be very clear, transparent without any monopoly in performing these functions of insurance for the Leasing Market so that consumers can get a quality offer, transparency and actually be in favour of them. So since these amendments are not only in line with the Directive, they are also going to strengthen the insurance markets, the SDP Club will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188583	We are now going to discuss the HDZ Club of Representatives, a respected colleague, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188584	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues, and here we have one more to say by technical law. To be honest, since it is about the changes defined by the EU directive that we cannot change much, but in the very changes to the law, with what the Secretary of State and counterpart Lalovac said, I will look back a little later on behalf of the HDZ Club. However, I think that given the situation and the time we live in, given the coronary virus, given the negative impact on the economy, I think this is a convenient opportunity to talk about a segment of the financial sector in the Republic of Croatia. The financial sector, which definitely has money and which can participate in some kind of government projects to help the Croatian economy, as well as to see little who actually owns this complete and non-banking financial sector in the Republic of Croatia. So when you take a look at the HANFE data with a state of 31.12.2019, you'll see that the total assets of the insurance companies are 45 billion and 400 million. Of which the largest share still has Croatia's insurance 24.5%, then Allianz 12.6%, but their grossly charged premium is 10.5 billion and that's where Croatia's insurance participates or participates or has a part of 26.1%), Allianz Croatia has 13%. Now, when you look at the small ownership structure of these insurance companies, then you'll see that one of the insurance companies is tied to companies in the Republic of Croatia that were financially powerful in their business, so they later came up with a change of business and they used those funds for something else. However, also one part of the insurance companies and how they relate to banks. Now that you take into account this link between these insurance companies, when you take into account that the practical factoring of a bank-owned society is a 4 pension fund, the mandatory pension fund that currently has the potential of 110 billion where there is a second pillar of savings of Croatian citizens is practically directly owned by Croatian banks and you take into account banks where practically over 90% of the ownership is in the hands of foreigners, then it is clear which direction you should go when you talk about what you would do in the future, who has the financial potential and who has the financial power and often pulls the parallel from 2008, but the financial situation of Croatia today and then the general situation on the financial market is quite different, however, and then the CNB freed up the reserve and the banks practically gives 4 billion kunas with a more favourable interest to the economy, however, that finding of HABOR was actually an analysis of those who had no credits because they had no credit. And we need to keep that in mind when we talk today about the situation we are in. Since there is obviously no great interest in this debate, I considered it necessary to present some of this basic information on behalf of the HDZ Club because these changes that have been proposed as regards the course that has been used since 31 December, a course which was in the last October and a logical thing if Croatia is an EU member to have some course to be attached to, rather than constantly having to recalculate. Also, the change is actually the possibility of opening third-world resecuritisation companies, given the signed international contracts, the logical thing to build into the law. What's good is two things. One that consent to perform the duties of members of the Supervisory Board is given by HANFA, it is well incorporated into the law. Furthermore, the provision of the article, I believe, is Article 8, that is, in Article 59(6) of the law in force, says that, explaining the provisions so far, since such checks are subject to co-workers of the Supervisory Board which was required to be more explicitly stated in the law in order to avoid legal ambiguity in application. Therefore, the legislator, i.e. The finance ministry simply noticed, saw certain anomalies happen and explained it in the law, and that's good. What's also good is that leasing the companies gives them the opportunity to sell, to be insurance intermediaries because the logical thing is if you want to buy a car or over, to lie down, that practically it's a leasing society can do anything. And what my colleague Lalovec said, I just think it should be transparent there that the Leasing Society should offer the user the practical conditions that all insurance companies have, so that someone, anyone, anyone, can choose which insurance company this wants, and I don't think there's anything left to add, so another technical law. It's a good thing the Proposer, I'll say it again, noticed this inconclusion about these people associated with the members of the Supervisory Board that he corrected it. And we all talk about what the government has done in these moments, what it has not done, simply this data that is here, who currently owns the financial sector in the Republic of Croatia, who has money and the Government and the Ministry of Finance is doing very much what measures it should take. However, you must be aware, it is one thing to talk from the constituency benches, and the other to come and bring a concrete measure and apply this concrete measure to economic operators who have found themselves in various conditions, it tries to agree and put into some frames. However, given that my colleague Maric has a great experience from the financial and economic crisis in 2008-2009, it is certain that he and his colleagues from the Ministry are very much using this experience and with all the available data they have, working on measures that should be taken so that the Croatian economy will not sink into simply something you cannot influence, nothing at all, but it is simply a code you are in some wild river and you are a simple hive that the water is carrying, hitting you on the rocks and e, now who is going to get away with it, but I am saying that first of all, I think that the experience of fellow Maric who has here from the first crisis of this and operationally and professionally led to the ministry working. Why am I saying this? So yesterday, I think that there were incorrect statements from some colleagues from this pay phone because in a situation where the crisis then whoever has the necessary instruments to manage the crisis must not all voice the cry of the crisis is, the crisis is, we will do so, he simply needs to prepare things and when some things are recognized that he needs to react, that he can react spotably and that is the meaning of this meeting yesterday with ministers and businessmen and financiers who had in government. So it just shows that it's done. And I'm saying, at the beginning, I just wanted to show who owns the financial sector in the Republic of Croatia and that these people should be very cooperative because they are the ones who have the money, they are the ones who, at some point under certain conditions, can postpone certain payments, can offer money to the economy to get through certain things, and it is certain that today that the situation regarding the Republic of Croatia and the fact that the EU member is much more likely than we had in 2008 because only remember that in 2008-2009 the EU members had a number of opportunities that they used, the Republic was unfortunately somewhere in the conclusion of the negotiations and had to deal with this crisis. However, what is very important, no financial institution in the economic financial crisis has sunk, and this is evidence that certain things have been done well. I'm saying, some things just need to be said in public and openly because it's the easiest thing to do is attack. And it is a serious and responsible policy for people who are aware of the situation and must trust people who are currently executively leading, are in the executive positions of the Republic of Croatia and take care of the measures to be taken. So the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188585	Thank you. We are now going to an individual debate, we should talk to colleague Grozdana Peric, she is not there, so she loses her right of speech, and so is colleague Sasa Djujic, who is not there, and colleague Gordan Maras is not present, so we have reached the end of the debate that I am concluding, and we will vote when the conditions are obtained. Now, we have a problem because we have two laws whose proposings aren't here right now. One is the Proposition of the Law on Professional Pensions, the Proposer is Mirando Mrsic and the Implementing Law proposal, the Proposer is Damjan Vucelic, and since they are not there, so let's not interrupt the assembly session today, I'll give a break by 10:30 and then we'll try to have that debate, if they are not there then we'll have a free debate. Thank you. It's 9:00 P.M. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, first reading, P.Z. Number 851. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, who's against it? Who's restrained? And who's in? I find that most of the votes are 118 for, 1 abstention and 2 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188588	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before I begin to explain the law, I would like to invite all the political parties in the Assembly to sit together and discuss the measures that should be taken in Croatia that we limit this epidemic that is now ahead of us and that we agree on measures that should be taken to save the Croatian economy because obviously this epidemic will not stop so quickly, and we are an economy that is very vulnerabilable to what is happening now and I think we should gather all the heads together, regardless of the political sign, to agree on what and how to do because I think that no political party should try to collect points from this situation. The situation is serious. We are obviously at war against the virus, but we are also at war to maintain our economy and save tourism and what is being saved that, well, before I move forward with the interpretation of the law, that's my call to the parties, I hope that this will come up with a positive answer. As far as the law itself is concerned, the law is aimed at those who do long-term, difficult and responsible work, a job at extremely stressful, with extremely stressful characteristics compared to an average population that does not work on jobs with a well-favoured insurance course, which significantly affects their level of basic functional and motor skills. It is known that people who work in these places, their working ability has fallen since 35 years of life, and with an increased burden due to insufficient number of workers in these jobs and their additional burdens up to 50 years of life, this further affects the risk of increasing the severity of disease and mortality within these categories of insurance companies. The proposed law regulates the conditions for the exercise of pension insurance rights for certain categories of insurance undertakings in a more appropriate manner... transactions from the determination of those conditions by general or other specific rules. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is interesting that the government has missed the opportunity to bring our system of benefits of working with systems that time in Western European countries. What is evident from the data that we have in the Western European countries is that the system of benefits that we recognize and know does not exist, and in these countries, this problem that is in them, therefore it cannot be said that there are no interests in them that require that in some way what is working on difficult jobs be honored, that despite all the protection measures, a full-time working life can not be solved in a certain other way, so I will take advantage of here, the opportunity to invite the Government to think about these other ways of thinking and this law is precisely the mark of what it looks like in Western European countries. Therefore, if it is harmful and health-threatening jobs in Western European countries, these jobs are done according to a shorter daily clock and are paid more. It comes from the fact that harmfulness and danger work on certain jobs are daily, for example. They can't work full-time every day or dive or be in a box. Similarly, it applies to an x-rayologist who can only receive a certain dose of radiation daily and is usually up to a few hours. We also have jobs in the pharmaceutical and chemical industries. In all these situations after a certain time of appearance in quotes, a critical moment when a job should be terminated. Therefore, the protection of such jobs is not exercised by the right to an increased pension internship, but by reducing the daily number of hours of work. For example, when it comes to performing certain age-related tasks or those seeking special knowledge, skills and natural skills, Ballet artists, in this case such occupations reduce the age limit for work, but no increased internship is recognised. In Germany even miners are not given an increased internship, but the age limit is reduced, so in Germany miners acquire the conditions for a special pension after 15 or 20 years in mining or equal work. All these professions are not damaged despite the fact that they are not recognised for an increased retirement period, they all make a special pension according to the regulations provided for in their work and occupation, but when they experience the prescribed years, which are also time for other insurance companies. However, regardless of this, in Western countries, they can all go further on the labour market on the basis of their remaining health and age free to earn and meet the conditions for a second pension under the general rules applicable to all other common and regular interests. So it's something that's common in Europe, and this law is exactly on track, and this way of solving the pension of people who work on jobs that they can't do full-time. The government has passed the Law of Interrogation with an increased duration or a well-fused job experience, but it has failed to resolve or it has happened in the omega, so here's an opportunity to point out the problem of the current Law on Beneficiary Employment. Namely, fishermen, left-wings, clerics, heavy truck drivers who are employed by craftsmen have the right to an unfettered job internship, but if they work and owners are craftsmen then they do not have the right to an unfettered job internship. Because the legislator unfairly leveled the craftsmen and therefore the owners and directors of the company. It is clear that whoever owns or manages the company will rarely work on these jobs, but craftsmen usually work on these jobs and there is one problem that obviously the Government has not, failed to resolve. Here, therefore, is my wish to point to the Government the problem that the owners of the crafts are also working in places with an increase in duration, therefore abolished because the law does not allow them to use that privilege. What do we propose by law? The Professional Pension Act proposes the exercise of the pension insurance rights of those categories of insurance workers who acquire the right to reduce the age limit depending on the length of the period for which the insurance internship is calculated with an increase in duration. Jobs and occupations are placed in 4 categories depending on the degree of difficulties in working conditions and the nature of jobs that they then perform and then on the appropriate increase in the insurance standings, so what was and what was in the current Law on Beneficiary Train 12 18, 12 16, 12 15 and 12 14. This law establishes a circle of persons who are entitled to a professional pension are insurance companies whose age-limit is prescribed to acquire pension rights under the Law on the calculation of internships in the increased duration of so-called drivers, drills, installers, fishermen, divers, ballet artists, etc. That is to say, those whose age limit is prescribed to acquire the right to pension under a special regulation, which are members of the crew of the ship, professional firefighters and employees of demining operations and those whose training is accounted for under special conditions of work and special means of determining the level of law, namely civil servants, military officials, police officers, authorised officials of the judiciary in the affairs of the execution of prison sentences and detention measures, as well as educational measures of reference to the educational institution and the provision of judicial authorities and persons with special powers in the security intelligence system. What are the conditions for achieving this right under this law? The professional pension can be achieved by an insurance undertaking depending on the years of life and the overall completed insurance period for an effective duration, so the insurance company had to carry out effectively on these transactions the prescribed period. The prescribed pension may be made by an insurance undertaking in the range of 50 years to 56 years and 8 months of life depending on the job category with an effective job life insurance rate of at least 20 years in jobs carried out at the workplace or duties at which the insurance internship is calculated for an increased duration of either half or full-time. The entire retirement period does not have to be covered by an increase in duration, for example. A police officer must have the status of a police officer before he retires but does not have to be at the workplace where the internship counts for an increased duration. The amount of pension shall be determined according to the total duration of insurance and the special period according to specific regulations. By completing the prescribed age-limit for professional retirement with the minimum requirement of 20 years of insurance, the insurance undertaking makes a professional pension, but as a pensioner, it may stay with the same employer or, for example, in the system, because of the need for a job. The MIP or the MORH and thereafter request a recalculation of the professional pension. After reaching a professional pension, the user decides whether to continue working with the same employer or to stay in the system and go to the private or public sector using part of the professional pension. This law provides for 3 levels 25, 50 and 70%. In this case, by completing the prescribed age and the necessary pension standing, the insurance undertaking from a post-work relationship in jobs where there is no insurance standing in an increased duration shall exercise the right to retire under the Pension Insurance Act. Then his pension is combined from two levels, so he has a part that is a professional pension and another part that is related to the Pension Insurance Act. Mirovina is determined in a way that, on the basis of the salaries made in the most favourable 5 years, for the years in which the insurance company worked on jobs with difficult working conditions. That's better than it is now. So in the current regulations it's 10 years, we're proposing 5 years and the calculation is done in the credit system to keep pension levels in line with the applicable regulations. If the insurance company leaves the system before it can exercise the right to a professional pension at the time of exercising the right to pension under the general regulation, it will be calculated in proportion to the part of the professional pension and will be included in the total pension achieved in the proportion part. Of course, these places are places that can cause a certain level of disability in the working century. Therefore, we have also foreseen that disability pension is defined as a professional pension during a job relationship with increased insurance training, but in accordance with the provisions of the General Pensions System and if the disability pension is made after that period, it is achieved exclusively according to the provisions applicable to the general pension system. These pensions are clearly and inherited, so that the family pension is achieved according to the terms of the general system, with the calculation of the pension that the insurance would belong to at the time of death under this special law and its benefits. Here, here, I want, I'm taking the opportunity to plead with the government to solve a family pension problem that has long been on the wallpaper in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, not only about professional pensions, but about all pensions, because in cases where you have two pensions, when one spouse dies, then the other one can take either his pension or 70% of the deceased spouse, that's something that then pushes those people into, below the poverty line, whether the costs are the same, the directors are the same, and the incomes are smaller, so I plead that the government also respects the proposals we made in the assembly. In the assembly is a proposal by the Democrats to amend the Pension Insurance Act where we propose that, therefore, the pensioner has the right to his pension and 50% of his deceased spouse's pension. We have also foreseen a transitional period, in the transitional period until the full application of the proposed system, the exercise of the right to a professional pension will be achieved, the pension rights will be exercised in such a way as to apply the current regulation if this is more favourable for the insurance company. The benefits and consequences of accepting this system are made possible by receiving reduced professional pensions to users who exercise their right and who are employed outside the system, thus encouraging the employment and self-employment of these users. Namely, what we have in the system now is that people can't retire because they don't want to go into early retirement, so that they have a smaller pension, that we have cases of having a ballet artist in HNK who was 70 years old. And she was still employed in HNK because she didn't have enough years of internships to get a pension. We have a problem with firefighters that people stay in the system, and so if they're not in command waiting for retirement, and we can't hire younger people at the time, and they can't get out to put out the fires, is that it's just age and physical preparation they don't allow? The time spent in the system and the training achieved increased during the period through the categorisation of jobs and the possibility of early retirement under the conditions laid down for the exercise of the right to professional retirement. Under the proposed model, the use of professional pensions could also remain in the system and work until the maximum age for professional retirement, and for special staff that are important and in the system, ensure that they remain in the system and later exercise of the right to professional retirement. This law has yet another effect, which is that these pensions are finally being moved from the part that HZMO specifically says, which is pensions under special regulations, preferential pensions, as they are being called, because they do not belong to that system because they all earned what they get, because there are no more parliamentary pensions, that we have abolished it, I was then the minister who proposed that law and that assembly accepted it, so we have no parliamentary pensions. When we talk about academics, defacto they don't have privileged pensions because they all work over 40, what they get is that supplement because they're at the academy. If we remove these pensions from it because they do not belong there, the defacto of the Republic of Croatia will remain only with privileged pensions related to defence status, and I think that part should be resolved in such a way that these pensions are transferred to the system or to the Ministry of Defence or to the Ministry of Defence. As for increasing the expenditure of the state budget, we have made a conservative calculation showing that the burden on the system is acceptable because part of the people who receive a professional pension will retire early because they do not have to wait 65 years. lives, yes, but part of them will be employed, defacto those with contributions to which they pay, so on the salary and, therefore, what enters the pension system will defacto finance this earlier, earlier period and thus the impact on the budget will be minimal. We predicted somewhere that around 30% of them will be, will return to the system and that 50% of their pensions will be paid on average, and not the whole meal are in a working relationship which leads us to calculate that for example 2020. with a harmonisation of about 1.5% annually, and there is a clear and now a problem for this government because it is more consistent, let's say, 0.7%, and one of the reasons is that, because one large part of the salary that entered into the pension base is in the untaxable part, and that is the reform of Minister Marić, which looks like this at first glance, is very good, but de facto workers are reducing their pensions long-term because the non-taxable allowances are not based on the calculation of pensions, and therefore has reduced pension increases because the increase in wages is minimal because these non-taxable allowances are not counted. Employers de facto all lively pay through untaxable supplements. The adoption of this law will also provide for a prerequisite for the exercise of pension insurance rights for specific categories that carry out tasks which result from the dangers and harmfulness and psychophysical efforts they cause during their regular exercise do not allow them to work long enough to achieve pension insurance rights under the Pension Insurance Act. In addition to ensuring transparency, simplicity and uniformity in the exercise of the right to pension of those persons who now exercise their rights on the basis of a series of applicable parallel rules, the proposed law will establish a system of pension rights which will be established on the basis of the specific conditions met, but the way in which those rights are determined will be maximumly brought closer to the way of determining the right in the general pension system. The Pension Insurance Act remains a fundamental regulation on the basis of which pension insurance rights are exercised. The adoption of this law complements the existing system by a new way of exercising the right to pension of persons who are provided with the basis of work in different insurance systems, who work on jobs and interests in which the insurance internship is calculated with an increased duration, in a unique, easily recognizable and united manner. It should be pointed out that the bill fully supports the scope and content of the rights that we find in the different regulations based on which the right to retire these categories of insurance undertakings is exercised. Even so, not only are the rights they have under existing laws maintained, but we have predicted that 5 of the best years are counted, so instead of 10, it means 5 of the last 10 that we have now that these pensions are then and greater than these pensions that people are now receiving under special, special laws. A special emphasis is placed on that category which is being paid additional contributions depending on the degree of increase in the insurance rate currently in place by a special regulation for the exercise of the right to pension, if it is further demoted by the permanent reduction of pensions, as well as on the possibility of re-employment and the inability to equate with other pension beneficiaries who make pensions under the Pension Insurance Act, so here we propose that they increase their pension by 27%. So, all the protection mechanisms have been put in place to make the adoption of this law of people who are receiving that pension appropriate, adequate and greater than it is now. We believe that under conditions of unfavourable ratio of insurance and users in the pension insurance system, as well as unfavourable demographic movements and more favourable economic conditions, the time has matured for the uniform regulation of pension system rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188589	I thank the proposer. Now let's go to replicas and have four of them. The first is the honorary colleague Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188590	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Mrsic, as you were Minister of Labour and Pension System, I have no doubt that you did not think with such a bill, but you know that the pension system is as sensitive as it is when we introduce new institutes, that it has to be very careful about such things, and it can be completely resolved as such. However, I remember very well while you were in opposition to the SDP then you had about 47 or 8 laws in that term, but when you came to power, you did not implement any such law or put it into the legislative framework. So, none of the ones you spoke back then in opposition. I understand that, and I assume you worked on this law while you were a minister, but in those four years, there was no indication that this law could be passed. Tell me, what happened that didn't come in and why are you proposing it now if you could when you were minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188591	Thank you. Here, just a second first they will respond to the replica of counterpart Mrsic then we will apply for a break from fellow Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188592	Dear fellow, preparations for the adoption of this law began in 2012, so as soon as I became a minister, but before one of the preconditions for the adoption of this law was to revise the training with increased duration. Then we formed working groups that worked for the next two years to bring in a revised list of jobs with increased duration of the internship, which was used by the HDZ Government, and based on these results, this law that is now in force. I, therefore, have left Minister Šikic, when my duty ended, finished the Law on Professional Pensions at the Ministry and I said that when you are done with the benefits, the second step is to just implement this law because it is something that is on the trail of both Europe and the EU. Why didn't you do that? You have to ask your HDZ colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188593	Thank you, thank you. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188594	Dear President of the Assembly, I request a 10 minute break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns, of course, regarding consultations with the law in question, but I would like to point out one more thing here. So today we are discussing several laws, each law is important, but I believe that in the Croatian Parliament as the most important place for Croatian politics, for the Croatian state, we should urgently discuss the emerging crisis situation related to the coronary virus. So, any honor to the government for the measures it is taking, but right here in this house should be discussed on this most important topic not only for the Croatian state right now, but I will also say about all humanity. And it is a shame that today in the Croatian Parliament there are not enough representatives, unfortunately it is not unusual and I think that we should meet permanently because of this extremely, extremely dangerous crisis situation. So, as President of the Parliament, I urge you to put this item on the agenda in haste, to discuss this issue permanently as long as the danger of an epidemic of coronary virus exists in our country of Croatia. Many good measures are being taken, however, I believe that many Croatian legislators who have legitimacy can give some advice here, some criticism and contribute to this situation being resolved as soon as possible because, I repeat, we are in one of the most dangerous periods for our country, in general for humanity, and the Croatian Parliament acts as if nothing is happening. So, I will repeat, ask and say even, please, that we urgently put into the procedure a debate on this extremely important point on the extremely important topic that is happening today in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188595	A colleague of Zekanovic, so HS and HS leaders together with the HS Secretariat are closely monitoring everything that is going on and we are in constant contact with the competent state services. Before this debate, I spoke with the Secretary of Parliament, and we decided to postpone all organised visits here at HS, that there were no more thematic sessions, no more round tables, no international travel and contacts, so we reduced all the obligations here in HS to the least possible measure, taking care of health security and protection, not just representatives, but all the citizens who come here. We will also continue to monitor everything that happens and react to the needs. We follow what the Government is doing, we follow what the Civil Protection Staff is doing, we listen to what our experts from the Croatian Institute of Public Health say, and according to their recommendations, we will behave here in HS. I see that today, too, it has been announced that it will go to the cancellation of all meetings with more than 100 people, so we will take care of that too, and we will probably take care of it during tomorrow at the Bureau level together with the representatives' clubs, and then we will see what we will do. But I appeal to both you and everyone else not to use this situation for any collection of political points, let's be responsible, let's be aware, this is one situation where the personal responsibility of each of us, every Croatian citizen, is primary and I believe that we will be conscious enough, responsible enough and that we will know how to deal with this situation. I'm taking a break by 11 o'clock and 20 minutes. It's 11:00.08.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188596	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 10:36 A.M.]] Replica, the first line has Mr. Vlaovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188597	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague Mrsic, this bill of yours, you wanted one area of pensioners, one sector to edit them more precisely by this special law because in the existing law they belong to that group of privileged pensions even though you said well that they earned their pension, and did not according to some privileged regulations achieve it and the key is that their status improves, better quality defined. That under more favourable conditions they retire, that they have a bigger pension. As far as we've heard the explanation why the government rejects your proposal yesterday on the board, that this bill of yours would make Croatian soldiers and defenders in a more unfavourable position, in order to have fewer pensions and therefore reject your bill. So I'm asking you, you've been doing calculations, which is the real truth, which is exactly what's going to happen, whether pensions of retired people from a professional retirement. Soldiers being smaller or not? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188598	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188599	Thank you very much, colleague Vlaovic. Here, once again and from this pay phone and as a minister and as someone who knows the matter, I say no, they will not be reduced rights, rights are not reduced, they are arranged in a different, more favourable way, and not only that, since we propose to take five last years, which is much more favourable than in the current laws when taken for 10 years. According to our calculations, this pension is about 10% higher than the pension that is obtained under the current laws, so we have led there, we have been guided by the fact that this law cannot and must not reduce the rights of people, either in the military or in the police, but not the rights of all others who have the right to this pension, therefore, pension, with an internship with an increased duration, or professional pension. Everyone will have a better pension than they have under current regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188600	Thank you. Mr. Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188601	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. My question is, professional retirement and staying in the system of work. So those who leave or go on a professional pension after certain years of work should no longer work in the profession, although I think that is individual, but if they were to leave on the basis of a well-fused job experience, then could they stay in the profession or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188602	Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188603	So this law goes for when you go like that. The fireman, to be simple, means a fireman who, in a professional fire department, is perfected, hypothetically, 52 years goes into a professional pension, leaves the system of the professional brigade, but can also work as a professional, for example in HNK, here in the Parliament, so he can stay in the profession, receive his professional pension and earn a salary. So here we are predicting what amount his professional pension is paid in. So when he goes into retirement, he turns out to be retired, then his total pension is calculated, where he has a part that's connected to the Pension Insurance Act, because then he's no longer in the system of the benefits of work and plus a professional pension that's combined with two. So this is something that is favourable and that allows people to still be able to do other jobs. And that I can keep working [[/Agreement: Thank you very much.]] Not to wait for a pension and block a job. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188604	Thank you very much. Mr. Culey, he's gone, he's losing his right. Let's move on, would he, would he, would the committee's rapporteurs like to take his word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, the first Mr. Ivan Shucker to speak in front of the HDZ Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188605	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, ma'am. State secretary with HZMO associates. This is a theme that when a person speaks then he must always choose the words he will use for the reasons that with every spoken word you can in a certain way hit someone who achieves a right. And therefore, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I will remain in most of the provisions at the principle level. Because by reading this bill first, and I have to read it, I have to quote this sentence because it's just the horrors that come from those sentences because whoever reads such a sentence to the losers of this will to read the next text, and says here, says the basic question that needs to be settled by these laws. Now listen to this sentence, ‘This law proposes to regulate the exercise of the pension insurance rights of those categories of insurance who acquire the right to retire with a reduction of the age limit depending on the level of the period for which the rate of insurance is calculated with an increased duration and the rate of increase in the insurance rate primarily by prescribing the specific age limit for the achievement of the right by respecting the fact that the performance of the tasks at which the law is applied shows exceptional efforts, and that they cannot be carried out up to one year of age prescribed as an age limit for the exercise of pension insurance rights under the Pension Insurance Act.’ Furthermore, by reading this law, it seems so simple, it seems so easy and a little cost and so, they created all the preconditions that practically everyone should support that law. But what intrigued me especially, and I'm going to start with my tail, which is an art. 16. who says, says "The transfer of funds from personal accounts referred to in Article 1 of this article is reported monthly by the Ministry of Finance and HZMO." Someone passed the Law in 2013 to save the budget from II. The pension rate is to be paid nearly € 4.5 billion in the state budget, € 4.5 billion in II. Retirement rate paid by just these insurance companies who need to regulate their pensions. Now, I don't know if I should use this special law or be mean, so what colleagues often do when it comes to Croatian defenders then speak on pensions about the Law on Special Regulations. Because these are definitely pensions that go on this list of pensions under special regulations. Next, then 4.5 billion were transferred from II. It enters the state budget. And now someone says it doesn't matter, it's just not true. Why? Because all those people who were using the law to pay in II. The pension rate, and when they retire under specific rules, these funds are paid into the state budget. So, all these people didn't retire, some of them will go away for the next couple of years, and all those years, the state budget will remain damaged for that part of the payment. Why? Because that money was spent in advance and it's just facts that we can't get away from without us changing our minds, that's what I was saying 6 years ago, 7 actually. So nothing has changed. So why did I say that reading the law? Well, after all, from Mrsic's opening argument, you just don't see a lot of strangers. And that's actually what intrigued me most when I was getting ready for this debate, the first two questions I didn't get an answer to. Do we, by passing this law, have to amend the basic Pension Insurance Act? I don't think so. Why? Because we're introducing new categories of pension insurance, pensions, not pension insurance. The second thing, we're introducing something that the existing Pension Insurance Institute doesn't predict that, basically, with a basic pension, you have the right to another pension that you'll exercise on the basis of your right when you go into professional retirement, so you'll be working for four hours. This is not regulated by the basic Pension Insurance Act. Perhaps that provision in the law that says that it can be done for four hours at a pension, but since it is a special pension and it is said that it can be done, that after a year power will be exercised from the pension system, then a fundamental question is asked whether the basic Pension Insurance Act should be amended? The second thing, and the question raised, is this law reducing the existing level of right to pensions that these members of certain groups of societies are making by means of special laws at the moment? So we think of soldiers, people who work in the police, who work in the judicial police, so that's defined by the existing law, and maybe it's a good intention to put it all in one place and to clear up some things so that it doesn't depend on which political option this issue is being discussed, the promotion monks, some will be members of a folk-free fight, someone will be this, depending on who, at a political point, although I think this is a topic that we shouldn't be politically thinking about. Why? Because all of Croatia's citizens paid out of their profits on the basis of existing laws, their employer paid their pension insurance, then on the basis of that, the law that we bring here gives us the right to retire and therefore, I don't see that there should be any difference, regardless of political belonging to us in HS. However, what I mentioned to those 4 and a half billion in 2013, so if the funds could be transferred at that time, then someone could also propose a law because for this law, since I don't see it here, with this law debate with the interested public, I don't know who took part in the debate. Who gave their thought to this law. Is that what this law is about, whether they've given their thinking, thinking, whether this law is exactly what they want. So that's what I personally miss about this law. And why am I saying this? Because I really want to stay at the principle level because if I were to go into detail, then there's a series of questions about calculation. Is it supposed to be like this and if it was supposed to be like that? But if a debate had been held with an interested public, then anyone who is here would need someone who proposes this law to make a calculation for him how much pension he will get under this law, when he gets the conditions to retire, and how much pension he would get, he actually gets from the existing law that I'm looking at, let's say for the active military persons that are defined in their law. Therefore, these are simply things that, when a law like this is proposed, must answer these questions. Not for political reasons, but, colleagues and colleagues here we make a decision about what life will be like for a few dozen thousand of our citizens in the near future. And that's why some things just can't stay irresponsible. And I would very much like that, perhaps colleague Mrsic has those calculations, I would very much like to have said them. Then I wouldn't be talking about this right now, but I'd be talking about something else because when you look at the law itself, then you'll see that in art. 8 So clearly define who the insurance companies are, when they acquire the right to retire, they are divided into categories, Art. 9th is about early retirement, Art. The 10th is about calculation and so, now that you look at that article. The 10th and then the question arises whether I am the foundation of this article. 10., can HZMO do a pension calculation. That's what the key question is to me. So read the article. 10th, I'm not discussing the law if I haven't read it. I've read it several times, and I've tried to turn it into real numbers, and you, when you read the article. The 10th is then asked what it is, especially in art. Article 10(6), pensions under Article 2(5) of this Law are increased by 27%. We know exactly which members of the general law have the right to an addition of 27%. Do all those to whom this law applies now and in the future have the right to these 27%? So that is a key question that simply needs to be answered. However, you have defined here, with calculations you said clearly in chapter 6 that all who will receive a pension under this law have the right to an addition of 27%. I don't know that's exactly because we know why this supplement was introduced by 27% and what happened to the pensions of those people who got that supplement. Art. 12., so well writes, says the user of a professional pension which is employed during the application of the right and begins to carry out the activity of paying off a professional pension, continues from the day of employment of 50% of the corresponding amount of pension, and that is that. And now we come up with that question, he starts working, after a year he makes his pension and the basis of the General Pension Law. And you, based on the General Pension Act, have no idea of two pensions, you only have one pension. So it's just some things that have to be answered, I say, so I started my discussion simple and easy because when you read this law, then everything seems very simple, you get a number, you peel some percentage, you figure out some kind of basic year, the man starts working, you pay him 50%, the rest of it gets, he stops working, he pays, he's based on what he's paying gets some kind of supplement of some pension that's not redefined in the law, and so that's all the things he just needs to answer. Art. 11, says the pensioner who, after gaining the right to a professional pension, continues to work on business... Art. 2. of this law and which has completed at least one year of insurance training may, after termination of employment, exercise the right to a new professional pension. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A new pension will be determined according to the article. On 10th of this law, according to the overall completed insurance internship with increased duration and value points achieved for that period before and after the exercise of the right of professional retirement. Now, I'd like to see someone who would based this provision article. 11th someone could calculate a pension because everything at the principle level is said here, if, and how, without a single mathematical indicator. So, even when some of the government's remarks are taken, then it will be clear why the government does not give a positive opinion. However, as a club, we believe that this issue of pensions under special regulations if it will be regulated then a special law should be regulated for all, that it should be incorporated into the basic Pension Insurance Act because, now, I want to be a little honest because all the political options were involved, so this 27% supplement happened because someone went into the pension system intervention without looking at the consequences, exclusively because of that. Only because of this, it did not consider what would happen to a certain group of pensioners and therefore there was a need to introduce a 27% supplement and I will end the debate on behalf of the HDZ Club. So, because of all of this, we can't support this bill because we think there's a lot of answers to the questions that I've asked on behalf of the club, I hope that my colleague Mrsic will now be able to answer in an additional 5 minutes, but I would, I would like to ask specific questions and answer them specifically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188606	Thank you, too. Proposer Mrsic will use his 5, Mr Mrssic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188607	Thank you very much. Here is the answer to specific questions, first of all about the Act on Active Military Persons, so that article. 6.a., 6.b., not one member of the military and police force since 2000, when the law was passed, has been using the II funds, so the pension column because they were more comfortable to retire under this law. Secondly, there is no need to change the Pension Insurance Act because even now, the rights that these insurance companies draw are defined by other laws. We have five laws that regulate that. We, with this law, put all those five into one law. Therefore, there is no need to amend the Pension Insurance Act. When we talk about pensions, clearly we've been doing calculations, so let's say those who don't go according to the Act on Active Military Persons, so everyone else who has an unfettered working experience, if they go according to current solutions, their pension will be taken for the whole period and then it'll be 3,580.66 kn, if it goes according to the law to this one we propose, 5 most favourable consecutive calendar years, then the pension will be 3,891,00 kn, so 300,00 kn larger. For the active military personnel of the MUP, intelligence and others, they now have 10 of the most favourable consecutive calendar years, so one of our calculations on one, so an example of a policeman, 3.996,39 kn, if they go according to this law, 5 of the most favourable consecutive calendar years, is then 4.342.87 kn. What I'm saying is, this law allows more pensions and not to touch the rights of those people. We have consulted this law and is in agreement with both the Ministry and the police and the unions and allows them a much simpler way when someone needs to retire because of the need for service or something than it is now. As far as two pensions are concerned, there are no two pensions if you've read this bill well, then the law makes it clear that we're going with the credit system to be compatible with the Pension Insurance Act. Therefore, the calculation of the professional pension is calculated according to the credit system, as are the accounts and pensions under the Pension Insurance Act and there are no two pensions but its pension is combined with that of the internship he had under this law and the internship he has under the Pension Insurance Act. Another remark or another remark you had, which is 27%. We have also pointed out that a special emphasis has been placed on this category of insurance who are paying additional contributions, which has been further downgraded by the permanent reduction of pensions by detiming in the possibility of re-employment and the inability to equalise with other pension beneficiaries who are making a pension under the Pension Insurance Act. And that's why we pay them back 27%. As regards the observation that, therefore, this law does not comply with the intensities of the long-term remainder or that it is in collapsing with Article. 6.a. and 6.b. A law on active military personnel and police officers. The longer you stay at work is something we promote with this and we let these people do after they retire to doing other jobs. And it's in agreement with both the military and the police and the firemen, everyone supported this law because it's the law that allows them to work more easily in the service, and those who plan to serve, the staff, the renewal of personnel, with this law, it's much, much simpler. Here, I hope I've answered the questions, but what I'm saying again, and for those who are not under the Labour Act military personnel and other pensions are bigger than they are under current laws. [[Intruder: Thank you, beautiful, weather]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188608	Thank you. Mr. Maras' first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188609	Thank you very much, Mr. Mrsic. I think you've quite correctly explained these enquiries to Mr. Shucker on his questions, given quite clear, unequivocal and logical answers at the end of the day. I'm curious, I'm curious, I'm interested in two things. So, one, you explained that it was necessary, so 5-6 laws that we currently have to replace with this law and for the sake of transparency and for the clarity of the legislation, I agree with that, and I think that's good. And secondly, what I'm interested in, after you gave these concrete and clear and logical answers to Mr. Shucker, do you expect, as he said, his support for this law after what you explained to him? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188610	Mr. Mrssic, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188611	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras, so what I'm expecting, I don't expect the government to support it, not one, so that position didn't quite approve of the opposition laws, not even when we were on the other side. What I am sorry about is that the Government and the Resort Ministry did not solve this problem because we thought that only by amending the Law on Beneficiary Employment will solve the problem, and they haven't solved anything, and yet they have opened another question that I have mentioned, craftsmen who are owners and workers on and who are working on, on these jobs, but I hope this will in some way stimulate the government to resolve this issue, because I say the benefited employment is in 5 or 6 laws. So, in the Law of the Sea, in the Act of Active Military Persons, in the Law of Mine Action, in the Law of Firefighters, the Fire Department, so in all these laws is this subject, and here it's all set One, and we put them all in the same relationship. [[/Agreement: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188612	Thank you. Mr. Shucker, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188613	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs., if you noticed from my debate, I am clearly this law and I have read the Government's opinion and I have asked you certain questions on behalf of the HDZ Club. You're like the promoter, and you know it very well, these calculations you've read here, you've also had to write an explanation of the law. Why? So to be black on white, to see if that's what it is. Another thing you can't say is that if someone, on a professional pension, counts on a new supplement based on what he's accomplished, it's not getting into the pension system and it's not receiving a pension on two grounds. It's just a fact. So the first question I asked you was do you think the basic Pension Insurance Act should be amended? You said you shouldn't. And now I don't get it, if you don't have to say that you're introducing some new newspaper that doesn't exist now if you claim to practically transfer rights from existing laws, then that's something that's wrong and that's what I'm looking for. Here. [[/Intruder: Time, la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la ……]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188614	Mr. Mrsic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188615	So if you have also read the explanation and the article of this law, it makes it very clear that the system used in determining pensions is the same as the system that is related to those other insurance companies that do not have an internship with an increased duration. And even now for these laws in which these special rights are, we don't change the Pension Insurance Act. Therefore, the Act on Active Military Persons, which calculates pensions for the military and police, does not exist in the Pension Insurance Act. And what I've already pointed out is that we bring these five laws down to one and allow for a clear and transparent determination of professional, professional pensions. When we say about 27% we don't transfer those pension insurance laws, but we're equating these insurance companies with pensioners under the Pension Insurance Act because they've been suspended for years, Like you got 27% for these others. [[/Intruder: Time, Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188616	Time. Let's move on with the clubs, now it's Mr. Gordan Maras who will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188617	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about this law and when we talk about such an important topic as the pension theme is related to certain professions that may now have a well-fused internship, it is impossible to avoid the impression that, over the years and the adoption of certain laws, certain categories of professions are not evaluated in the same way and are not in some way put in a transparent and clear way so that all of us can compare in one place how we benefit from and enable certain employees in really dangerous professions to achieve a well-precise work experience or that they go a little earlier in retirement. As the promoter said, at this point, it solves a few laws, and usually it's ad hoc solved, made possible by certain services of a certain benefit, and in the end it's not compared to, in one place and not evaluated in some way by that profession to say that, this one deserves to be in the first category, as the promoter said here, and each year, each year will be worth so much, and every year the internship will be worth instead of 12, 18 months or category 2, 3, 4 and at the end of 14 months. So it would be good if we had a solution that would allow us to follow certain professions in one place, to make it quite clear how many people have the right to retire, no matter how much you compare 5-6 laws, which is unfortunately the specialty of our pension system from the beginning. Maybe it was a mistake that we hadn't done it before because when injustices are corrected partially, it's usually done and let some new injustice be done. So here I was, during the debate of the HDZ Representatives Club, rejoiced because at some point I thought that, at some point, colleagues from the HDZ would accept this proposal, to show the citizens that it was possible to find a consensus on some things. This is one important thing, we all agree here that professions such as active military persons or, for example, firemen or such as employees in demining jobs, have the right to an unfettered service, but it would be good to send a very clear message as a society and as a council that we will agree on how much it is, that maybe the amendment something is corrected if it is problematic, and not that ad hoc refuses, and for the first reason only because it is proposed by the opposition representative. And I can say here that on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club that we will support this law and I think that such a law should be passed and I believe that we will bring it in less than a year, although the Croatian Parliament here rejects it because I think there is enough intransparency in the pension system, there is a lot of illogicalness in the pension system, enough of the procedure and purchase of its voters in the pension system, which is unfortunately the speciality of this government, and we have seen what it looks like at the beginning of the term where it is explicitly asked of its own voters, and unfortunately our pensioners in general in 4 years of office when you split were given an average of 30 to 40 kuna increase in pensions per year. It's nothing, it's not enough, and until we start thinking about everyone, until we start putting things on a transparent basis, there won't be any luck. And on the other hand, I think this is a good start or an example of trying some things in the pension system that might have been confronted in one place, transparently under me would tell the public analysis and those dealing with these jobs to ultimately get a quality solution. Whether it's optimally classified here by categories, whether it's supposed to be a month more or less of a benefit, it can be discussed, and we should have discussed it through amendments and through certain proposals, but immediately reject that law, the idea refuses, I'd like to say that the government accepted the idea, and then she came out in a month or two with her proposal. Unfortunately, we don't have that either, but it's being rejected, and it just doesn't want to accept something that's logical and that everyone here should agree on, as my predecessor here said for a speaker from the HDZ Club, so this isn't a political topic, this is simply a subject that should be acceptable to everyone, and maybe we have more debates like this that MPs might agree on. If the assembly were a decision-making site in the Republic of Croatia, it might not even be empty benches in the assembly, perhaps more people would be interested in proposing because I really think the biggest problem in our society is the democratic fact that the assembly is completely marginalized and serves to pass the law on Friday as a ruling majority without any substance debate, without one club or one representative for the past few years proposing a law adopted in the Croatian Parliament. It's simply not parliamentary democracy, and that's what I need to think about as soon as possible and change the system in a way that we get the possibility of a quality democratic debate here, and not that Mr Schucker, no matter what he might think this is okay, because the government doesn't accept it, must reject it. So that's something we have as a deficit at this point and we need to talk very clearly about it. And for this reason, I think that Croatian citizens also feel in some regular monthly research that the Croatian Parliament does not contribute to the society that should be given. So, on that side of my colleague and colleague, it would be a good idea to pass this bill, here we are at the SDP Representatives' Club, no matter what it is, we will accept it. What we can say is that, after establishing a new assembly, we must surely go to the adoption of such a Law on Professional Pensions, that it is not good that at this moment in Croatia the Croatian Parliament is not discussing almost any of the topics that are of the utmost importance for Croatian citizens, you can see in the agenda how the first point ended, today the assembly will probably end by 2 hours. It simply shows the consumption of this assembly, and it would be good to pick a new one as soon as possible. Unfortunately, in this current situation, power will have to wait for this autumn to pass, that this crisis and that we begin to solve things in Croatia so that we should solve them. On this side here we give support, support for the law, we hope that most of the representatives in Croatia will do the same in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188618	Mr. Maras will also continue the debate individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188619	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once again, I appeal to the leadership of the assembly to finally start doing our job and to get discussions in the Croatian Parliament that the Croatian citizens are torturing and burdening. It would be normal at this time and give it to the President of the Croatian Parliament to discuss the topic and crisis situations in Croatia, perhaps at a special session, to get a report from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, so if necessary for the measures they intend to take to get the support of the Croatian Parliament and opposition representatives. So it's something that our fellow citizens are most interested in and most troubled at the moment. I simply cannot accept this scene in the Croatian Parliament, a half-empty assembly where the points of opposition clubs are discussed, which is usually placed in a certain period of late hours, but today there is no longer any government proposal. So that's what Croatian citizens need to know. We no longer have government proposals on the agenda, the government has not proposed for weeks anything that could be perfectly discussed here. And on the other hand, look, I have to say it as my own. [[Okay, let's move on to the subject now.]] dissatisfaction and I don't know if you are [[I know, but you can do it to others, you can ask for a break.]] I don't know if you told Mr. Vice President because last time I told you the same thing to the president of the assembly, I'm asking you to pass it on. [[Now please move on to the topic, I have to tell you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188620	All right, I'll pass it along, now let's get on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188621	Thank you very much. So, as on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I will support this proposal, I think that people who are working on the demining business, crews of the ship, military personnel, police officers, but also others that we have now defined as an unfettered service, perhaps it should also be included in this law, so these are persons who work not only as crew members of the ship, but also members of the crew of the aircraft. At this point, we have an unfettered internship for both pilots and cabin staff, and I can say that I am proud of that the Committee on Labour and Pensions has just initiated that the benefits of the work experience to the cabin staff and in the end is one of the few initiatives at all, which, from this assembly over the past few years or all of this synergy, the 9th symposium of HS, has arisen, but I want to say, unfortunately, at this point in time, as much as we agree on what the benefits are and which we should get certain, certain, certain support for our own, for our internship and, and certain, and certain possibility of this being, to get a month more per year when it comes to, oh, about the pension system, we do not have a uniform system and we don't have a transparently set up in the Republic that people know and see it in one place. So, these problems are usually partially solved with us, unfortunately, usually buying the preference of a particular electoral body, someone gets more, someone gets less, and we also have a famous Law on official pensions where they are piled up according to special regulations, not on the job but rather on special pension regulations where 50-60 000 people are 6, 7, 8, 9.000,00 kn, 10, some and more thousands of kunas of pensions where they can then be raised on a partial basis, because it is estimated in the HDZ that this is the electoral body, which, which, on the other hand, the HDZ loves to adopt and thus receive support, is estimated to raise 10%, 10% of the pensions at the beginning of the term, and thus be made certain, this cost in the state budget, and then, on the other hand, firefighters who are not thus understood as the electoral body of HDZ, do not have the same option. So it would be good to do, to make an absolutely transparent law, to cover all the professions that we can agree on here and, at the end of the day, to be aware right away at the beginning, yeah means the firefighter has the first category, he'll have a year and a half for a year or an officer or an active military person, and I don't know, the crew members of the ship will have a year and two months. So on that side, I think it would be a good idea to put things together that way, I think it would be a good idea to write it out in one law and end up agreeing about it all here in HS. If we do not, we will always leave that shadow and doubt that, in order to partially resolve things in order to intervene from the budget towards a particular electoral body, unfortunately it is now and we must change it urgently, especially because we may be expected to have a very difficult time in the coming years, so I think that the government has completely underestimated this situation regarding the economic side because we do not see a single measure facing the economy because of the crisis that is currently happening because of this coronary virus, citizens are concerned, of course they are primarily concerned about their health, it would be good for the Croatian government to send very clear and harsh messages because we see that countries in the area are closing schools, that they regulate and even more stringent border crossing, that they are limiting public gatherings, meaning we expect responsible behaviour from the government of the Republic, and after that responsible behaviour and towards the economy and pensioners because this type of crisis will come to a very fast 2021. And who knows how many years it'll take as short as possible, as soon as possible, and if it'll last as long as possible. So in principle, I support this law, I will vote for it, I would like that law to be joined by other MPs to show that we can reach an agreement on some laws regardless of the political sides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188622	Thank you, too. Mr. Vlaovic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188623	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, I agree that this law should be supported and we from the HSS will vote for this law because it solves in a transparent way the problem of several professions that carry out their jobs under special conditions and have the right to a professional pension because of their benefits. It's a good thing you mentioned the problem of people working on demining because we know how much they were underrated and low wages, and of course there are firefighters. But I want to encourage here and again give the idea to solve and problem more than 20,000 farmers who have retired from agriculture, who have pensions below 1,000,00 kn, to find a model for them to increase their pensions because they do not follow the work of living costs. These people are also on the poverty line, and if they didn't have any other products that work on their family economy, they'd probably be a clean socialist. So let's go. help everyone. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188624	Here you go, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188625	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, the vast majority of these people have no means of not having, what you said, their own country and domestic animals would probably be hungry at this point because in this way they manage to at least feed their families and themselves from what they have. The problem of the pension system in the Republic of Croatia is a standard problem that has been dragging on for many years. Unfortunately, there has been no major shifts in the past 4 years, we have had a big, big protest against it, the signing of 750,000 citizens said their thumbs down for the government and for their solving of these problems. So there's nothing special to add except that the minister of former Pavic escaped to another ministry now I don't even know what's going on anymore and what this one's doing for the government might be good. It means he doesn't have that much in public anymore, but unfortunately for the retired, it's not good because this government doesn't solve problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188626	And in the end, Mr. Steve Culey, there's a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188627	Dear colleagues and colleagues, my debate would go in the direction of this perphomaniac, who says nothing about you will be called, but I've been wrong a little bit, as proposed by this law, something will still be named after him, and that will be the incubator of Mrssic's partisan pensions. So, however, it will remain recorded in history that one labour and pension system minister has managed to make 6,000 new Partisan pensions. In what way he did it, I don't know, and to the citizens who look at us and listen I give thinking and thinking to turn around and try to see those followers of these pensions as old as they are, with whom they live and from whom the trenches and Boška Buha action know them. But it's just one such small introduction to this whole proposal...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188628	Now you have to get to the point, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188629	Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188630	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188631	... who, in dogmatic style, are trying to defend both the proponent and individual MPs, taking care of the interests of Croatian pensioners so that they can enjoy the fruits of their work while forgetting that they are the creators of this chaos, which will have the potential in the future inconspicuous consequences of the pension system and that we will be able to respect the obligations towards pensioners who are therefore honorablely, responsibly, in their jobs in a long-term job, giving up in their work many and their safety and health in order to contribute to the improvement of both their businesses and their families. So, you and those who have contributed with their work that many of those I am about to list would also enjoy theirs or manage their pensions, which is why we are where we are. It is common knowledge besides those who have earned their pensions by their work that there are those who, by some other work or other, gave themselves for the betterment of society, have achieved this right, and those who participated in these and such works, i.e. by wars, they were able to achieve these rights. The burden particularly promoted by the respected former Minister Miranda Mrsic refers to those who were in the Homeland War, which are Croatian defenders who are marked as a burden, as ballast waters of the pension system, as he said. Forgetting that there are 20,000 Partisan pensions next to them, 75% of them are hereditary. I do not know which others enjoy inheritance pensions other than them, 5,800 former JNA members, so those who, according to special regulations, have exercised the right to pensions of 5,800 who, before the Homeland War, had paid 20 and more years in the JNA pension fund in Belgrade and which the Republic of Croatia took over, had granted them a pension without paying any kuna to HZMO. So this is another ballast difficult environment on the pension system that Croatian citizens have nothing to blame or debt to pay. Because someone smart found himself, proposed a law and brought it to harm Croatian citizens and Croatian budgets to pay for something he was not even obliged to pay. To who and why? In addition to domestic pensions, we won't mention them they're from that time, but there are also 46,000 Ukrainian, rebel pensions. Why the rebels? These were those who were in the occupied territory of Croatia during the Homeland War and who had neither the guilty nor the debtor, and now had a chance for many of these same Croatian citizens who occupied, terrorized, murdered, tortured, burned, raped, and now that same people are paying them their lives, both in Croatia and Serbia. They do nothing wrong with receiving Croatian kunas that do not hate them. And what else is waiting for us to do that? The association of financially damaged pensioners founded in Belgrade, representing the interests of 50,000 Krajina pensioners, estimated in time that Croatia owes them about a billion and a half kuna. The amount that we have paid for landscape pensions so far is not final because the second part of the requirements that have been recognised refers to the internship for those 5 years that will only be included in future pensions, so that is almost another 250,000 people, is clear number of landscape pensions that Croatian citizens may have to pay in the future. Who? So those who were in white eagles, left and right subdermises, the Chetnic squads of Dušan.../incomprehensible/... so for the day they attacked Vukovar on 18.11. when it fell, they will receive a pension from Croatian citizens for the day. He will receive a pension from Sister Blaga Zadre from his family, his son will work for them for the murderers of his brother, sister Marko Babic will also give up for his children for those and such. And to give the cake cream aside from all the JNA pensions that Croatia must pay some quasi officers for their services that they have contributed to Croatia, they contributed to their cowardice, so we managed to get them out of Croatia, some of them escaped here to rock this Croatian ship as ballast waters. And Milanovic, the cousin of this one here, will not be called after 23 years of retirement, who became the technical director of the Krka National Park, they hired the nearest cousin of Prime Minister Milanovic in Krka National Park, and he was retired for 23 years. What do you say about that? The commander of the corvette, the white ship, may have commanded Galeba in some past times, imagine and he corvets in the Krka National Park. Who's cousin, how could he even come to that place? So I don't know any Croatian defenders that came, not even Ljiljana Zmijanović, who I must mention, who is fighting the injustice that was done in this time of ours, calling those who are guilty, I will not stand on yours, but I will end up with mine, and a white ship I hope never will. You're interrupting me. I've got another minute, Mr. Honorable. [[Intruder: To the law, go back to the law.]] I've said enough you understand me without it. [[Intruder: To law, go back to law please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188632	And now I'd like to say two words just before I give the replicas. This Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament binds my hands to me, but otherwise no one in this assembly should have, should have neither on their computer nor on their shirts, nor on the picture in front of them propaganda, propaganda materials. Parliament is where you speak with words, which is why Parliament is called, the word itself says, Parliament is where we fight with words, not like in the street or in the stadium with shirts, in front of computers in that case even the president of the Republic. So this makes me bigger because it's been done by the parties to each other by a compromise that isn't enough. I hope it won't be in the next term. Mr. Glasnović asked for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188633	Yes, Major Culey, to some, the truth is painful, every honor, here are the people who started the international court in Switzerland to work to pay their pensions to the occupiers of those who occupied a third of the country until the integration of Eastern Slavonia, where these people sit. The question of how many pensions do we pay in Serbia people who occupied this country, how many thousands? You don't need to answer that you should know these co-workers from the Ministry of Labour and Pensions. We are the ones who earn, hundreds of millions of dollars in profits from trade with Croats in BiH, they are not desirable here when they do not pay taxes. There is one current that wants to remove a unique Croatian being outside the Croatian homeland. What are pensions for Croats in Serbia, Republika Srpska, etc.? Why do we have a double standard, how much UDBA's files are in Belgrade, receiving thousands today, thousands of heads of retirement, it's also not.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188634	Thank you very much. Mr. Schucker will finally speak for HDZ, there is no person.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188635	Thank you very much, I'm going to report finally on behalf of the club just to clarify some more things because unfortunately some colleagues have tried to politicise this law and I simply, so I don't think that Mrsic or I didn't go in that direction, but we're simply out of some knowledge and from experience, he's suggesting something I've tried to say on behalf of the club, which we don't think we're done with, let me just a few more words. Due to some of the things that have been happening in the pension system, the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia have paid dearly in recent years. So, the pensioners' debt returns remember that agreement with the pensioners somewhere over 15.5 billion kuna, not counting interest, which is your money, for part of the repayment of that debt has been sold practically took by 20 and a few percent of the shares actually 18% of the INA shares and 30% of HT shares. It was only enough for half, for the rest of the Republic of Croatia to pay off that debt to the pensioners. The second thing we say to our colleagues and colleagues every time is that the amount of peace is totaled by this year 37-38 billion of this year will be over 40 billion, and when you deduct from that amount the amount that those who do not have the right to this 27% supplement, count 27%, and you will see how much that is on the annual level, somewhere near 10 billion kuna. And that's all the consequences of something to correct injustice against the pensioners. Why? Because at some point the laws changed without seeing all that was going to happen in the future. So here we have to be aware this is a law of great numbers and at no point did I intend to cut the job of those who have proposed this law. In the name of the club, we have tried to warn you about some things, and finally, with what I have mentioned, I want to say two things to you colleagues and colleagues, and primarily to the promoter. So, this law never ceases to apply to the Law of Fire which has been in force since 1.1.2020, we, with this law, have now passed it recently, defined the pensions of firefighters. It was therefore necessary to indicate here which laws have ceased to apply, and as far as military personnel are concerned, they are being abolished, in fact, by the decision of the President of the Republic of Croatia. For both persons and members of the Armed Forces, this Act does not comply with the Armed Forces Act. It's just facts that we can't get away from, and that's why there are discussions here that all things are arguments on the table and that's why we're discussing them. And maybe it would be better if we finally settled it with one whole law and stopped shooting here who made a pension on which basis because the one who made the pension didn't accomplish what he wanted, this Parliament passed a law based on whom he exercised the right to pension and no one has the right to object. I repeat, this is not a political issue. We are here discussing a law that determines, says, the property future of our fellow citizens and how we bring it, so it will be, and that's why I said that in this bill there had to be a calculation of what it means by this law, because look, if there is no need to change the existing Pension Insurance Act, then how is someone just practically the same thing being transferred from one law to another to a greater right? But I simply felt the need to say this once again on behalf of the HDZ Club because unfortunately we are witnessing that there are laws in this House when you're in opposition, and when you come to power, then you don't put any of that law on the table, it would be logical, if you have 40, 50 laws and you suggest when you're in opposition, when you come to power, the first 40 legal proposals on the table, that's what I suggested while I was in opposition. However, it is nice to propose laws that sound this nice, but when you roll them into a complete legislative system of the Republic of Croatia, teaching them when you put it into the budget, then that story looks a little different. So I'm saying, unfortunately, the HDZ Club can't support this bill. And there's something else I'd like to say. From the correctness of the government, I think the proposal should be made clear about the government's concrete objections to this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188636	Thank you, too. And now the Proposer will have the final word. Here you are, Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188637	Dear colleagues and colleagues, no colleagues of Culei, colleagues of Culei, but I would first explain two things to keep it in writing. Therefore, all pensions that are either under the Pension Insurance Act or these special pensions or pensions under special regulations are inherited. So everyone has the right to get a family pension, whether he, had a pension under a special law or had a pension under the Pension Insurance Act. Therefore, as well as defence pensions, they will also be inherited, so they all have the right to inherit by law and what counterpart Culej did not say that the number of NOB pensions is constantly falling, the number of pensions of Tuljek and Labina miners is also falling, so this number of declines is only falling, only defence pensions are growing, and here every day there are new defenders, and that's the problem I've been saying all along, so I'm not running. As for JNA's pension, therefore JNA's pensions were also received by General Bobetko, General Stipetic, my uncle Admiral Letica, so they were the people who destroyed Croatia, or they were the people who in Croatia in the Homeland War. And these pensions of JNA, these are people who stayed in Croatia, who were not on the party of the Serbian JNA and let those people do their lifespan in peace with pensions that were then unjustly reduced and they were brought to the poverty line, we, at the time of the SDP government, corrected them and brought them to the part that they should. As for Mr. Shucker's remarks, fellow Shucker, so as far as the law I proposed in the opposition and what I did as a minister, I think it's evident that the laws I proposed from the opposition, that I proposed them to the Assembly and that they were adopted, starting with the Pension Insurance Act, the Labour Law, the Labour Protection Act, the laws of those who, we separated the laws on compulsory and supplementary pension funds, so in my time we definitely thought all the laws we had to pass, we failed to pass some laws that didn't allow time, I'm sorry that HDZ didn't finally pass those laws. The Retirement Insurance Act should not be changed because these things that are in this law, I repeat again, are scattered under other laws and have now been partially settled in the Fire Department, but this topic should not be in those laws because we will have that every profession will want to pass its law in order to resolve its pension rights inside. With the Professional Pensions Act, we deal with it in a transparent and clear way for all the professions of the present and future that have an internship or will have an internship with an increased duration. At first I made it very clear that Europe does not admit it, we have a relic of our socialism and the '80s. A year. So, they don't know that when you say they have a benefited internship they look at you like a calf in a colorful door because they simply don't have it. So this is on the trail of the solution we have, we have in the EU. And don't interfere with the president's right to retire. It has nothing to do with the Professional Pensions Act because it doesn't retire people because they can't work anymore, but it retires them because of some special merit and retires those who are both soldiers and cops, but also those who are miners, drillers or I don't know who they are. Therefore, this law does not derivate this law and our ties, it is a special law on this presidential, presidential pension. And I, of course, wanted to look back at the government's very allegations there's a lot of it, every remark that the government has made this one gave its answers, so I'm going to refer it to the government, and then next time it's probably written that they have that part. In the view of the Government, it is important, firstly, that this is a parallel composition of the right to pension, or a new kind of pension rights, not to be too much obliged, I will say this very briefly, that in response to the Government we point out very clearly that it is not our intention to create a parallel pension rights system, especially by not introducing new types of pension rights. With this law, we propose to complement the existing system by a new way of exercising the right to pensions of persons who are provided by the basis of work in different insurance systems, who work on jobs that account for insurance with an increased duration, in a unique, easily recognizable and united manner. Contrary to the view of the Government, which says that this is a parallel system, we believe that this bill ensures transparency, simplicity and equality in the exercise of the right to pension of those persons who have now been established on the basis of a series of exactly parallel laws, as much as possible, the law proposed is fully coordinated with the new law on the insurance internship with an increased duration. And if I don't continue not to capitulate you, the answers are here, I will direct those answers to the government with the goal of the government moving in that direction and solving that problem. My colleague Shuker and I did not politicise, and it was not our intention to politicise, but it is one thing that we have to solve in Croatia if nothing else is due to people who are coming to work in Croatia, and are not Croatian citizens, they do not recognise in their systems the unfettered work experience, and what if someone from EU countries is part of their working life and is working on certain jobs that have an internship with increased duration will have problems how to explain it in Europe because, as I said at the beginning, there is no increased internship for these individual interests but it is solved in other ways, so if nothing else Europe is likely to make us solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188638	Mr. Shuker was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188639	Thank you very much. We understand each other about these laws that are proposed by the opposition, it was not about you, but you know very well what period it was about. And that's why I say it's easy to suggest, but if you noticed when I first started talking about this law I didn't talk about it that way. So, I was talking about concrete things, and we can talk about these specific things. Now you're out at the end of your look at it, here we take on the presidential pension. If the basis of the Armed Forces Act defines how members of the armed forces and military personnel can retire, among other things, a presidential pension is envisaged and you are now completely moving these retirement models out with a special regulation and leaving this pension inside. Well, if we're gonna do that, we can put this in a special regulation. Why? Because it's also a pension under a special regulation. I'm just telling you about it, nothing else, let's be precise, so if we solve one thing all the way, no one takes just one sentence, please, no one takes the right of the president of the state to retire, but let's not in one law but put it in another.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188640	Thank you, time. Will you answer it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188641	I'm glad we talked about the arguments and the counterarguments to get back to the presidential pension, so it has nothing to do with the pension that is related to this law. So, then, this law that speaks of pensioning people who work long hours in places where they can't do their work. The Presidential Retirement, which is not only intended for active military personnel, so either military or intelligence systems, is therefore intended for others, so we know that certain church dignitaries have retired from the presidential apparition. So it's a presidential order, the president's pension has nothing to do with this. The question of whether that pension should be at all because with this law that we propose, there is no need for a presidential pension because all of these cases when the president is retired can be resolved by this law because he will get a professional pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188642	Thank you, thank you very much. Oh, well, I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188643	Now we're going to the Proposition Law on Professional Pensions, First Reading, P.Z. Number 770. The promoter is MP Miranda Mrsic, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Proposed Law on Professional Pensions is not accepted. Who's against it? Who's restrained? And who's in? I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The result is this, 82 for, 2 abstentions and 39 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188644	Moving on, moving on to the next item of the agenda is: - Proposal of the Executive Law, first reading, P.Z. no. 672 Proposer is representative Damjan Vucelic on the basis of Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice and the Government delivered an opinion. Mr. Damjan Vucelic I see will already give an additional explanation normally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188645	When injustice becomes law, resistance becomes duty. Destiny has determined that on the day of my honor and duty to present to me the proposal of my party the Living Wall for an executive system that is fairer, better and more effective, there is another unfortunate and sad attempt on that same day by illegal and thieving RBA cooperatives on the island of Krk besides Baska. My party comrades on the ground today have succeeded in defending the family and their home and in wishing for a better tomorrow, I present to you a proposal from the Living Wall for a better Croatia. When the EU court in March 2017 is in Pula parking d.o.o. against Sven Klaus Tederhan and Ibrica Zulfirkapasic against Slaven Gejer found that the existing Croatian executive system against EU law and that public notaries cannot be considered a court of law. Our ruling elites then set out to build a new executive law. Not because of the improvement of thousands of blocked completed and hundreds of detached families, but because of the fear that such an unfair system might actually win a pack from Brussels. But their suggestion is to make up an existing unfair system, pure cosmetics. Public notebooks remain under procedure only formal judicial control, FINA continues to charge its fees and the loss of the only family home due to over-inflated claims increased by legal and public records and interest, remains a real danger to the vast majority of our Croatian citizens. Unlike these cosmetic changes, I am pleased to present to you the proposal of a completely different executive system, which is modelled by the Slovenian model, which has been named the best in Europe. So just a few miles from us, from this place, is the best executive system in Europe. In all of Slovenia, only 5 judges are involved and there are no public notebooks involved. However, such a fair executive system that our closest neighbours have, the ruling elites do not want to even consider because it would destroy the highly profitable interests of individual law firms, public notaries and claims and banks. In front of you today, you have our proposal for a completely different executive system. Our proposal for a new Implementing Law leads to the possibility of conducting an electronic procedure and is abolished on the basis of a credible IC. Removing a credible document that can now be anything as an executive basis would reduce the number of procedures completed by more than 50%. In relation to the existing solution, only the performance remains on the basis of an executive document. This practically disappears from the role of public notebooks throughout the process. The electronic enforcement procedure shall be automatically audited if the perpetrator does not object to such a way of conducting the performance or if the official court assesses that the perpetrator is unable to participate in the electronic executive procedure. Furthermore, the role of the FINA whose way of working has been the subject of criticism so far is replaced by the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance, which also runs the single account register. Therefore, the implementation of the operation no longer participates in public notebooks, does not participate in FINA, but exclusively the court and the authorities of the state administration with the exception of public commissioners in the sale of real estate. The proposed new Implementing Act shall be prohibited from implementing the property unless the contractor or member of his household has owned another property to meet the basic housing needs. Protecting the right to the only home. The proposed solution is also no longer possible to launch a real estate implementation for claims of less than 60,000 kuna. The implementation of the property implementation for claims, meaning greater than 60,000 kuna, must be prohibited in winter months. These fundamental changes protect the constitutional right to a home more effectively than existing solutions to the housing of the perpetrators. The proposed new Implementing Law, the most authorised amount of the costs of the procedure, is fixed to the total amount of the principal of the executive and this claim by a provision of a forced nature. In addition, contrary to the general arrangement of mandatory persons in the case of monetary claims, the collection of legal tightening interest in the executive procedure is arranged in a way that the principal comes first on payment and then costs the procedure and only then tightens the legal interest. The bank's fee is limited to that of the court's fees and the tax administration's fee which is now in the process of a court order. The new proposal for the Executive Act increases the range of receipts that are excluded from the performance, such as Christmas, resurrection, regress, daily, field supplement, maritime supplement, union-social assistance and loans, benefits for the official trip abroad, severances, fees for the use of private cars for official purposes, benefits for separate lives and maternity and parental support as well as support for farmers. It is also limited to the amount of monthly income of the natural persons of the performers that can be completed. The proposed Implementing Law prescribes several criminal penalties for the Tax Administration, the Bank and the CNB if they act contrary to the provisions of the law, and regulates the system of public commissioners and commissions of sales in a way that does not involve the HGK. The solutions proposed by the new Implementing Law modernise and systematise our executive legislation, almost completely restrict the participation of public notaries in the procedure and allow only in exceptional and very limited cases outside the court order. The proposed solution very effectively protects the family home, reduces the costs of the procedure, and has a beneficial impact on the burden of the judicial system through enforcement procedures for the abolition of the exercise on the basis of a credible document. The proposal is in line with the EU's judicial acquis, and the proposed solutions are also on the trail of the best comparative and legal European examples for the introduction of digitalisation of the whole process. The implementation of this proposal for a new Implementing Law may be subject to the already foreseen resources of the state budget just provided by the Ministry of Justice for the development of applicative solutions and the improvement of the existing system, but not cosmetic, but essentially fair this time. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, today you have a choice, you can support the true, new, fairer and more efficient system that the Living Wall proposes or you can continue to passively support the profitable interests of law firms, public notaries, debt collection agency and foreign banks. The choice is up to you. When injustice becomes law, resistance becomes duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188646	Does anyone want to speak first on behalf of the board? No, I don't. Does a government official want to add anything? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188647	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot accept that proposal of the Executive Act for several reasons. First of all, dear fellow MP, in the large part of your bill, you have installed what the working group or the new Executive Law already provides, and that is the category of social measures. You have listed the very circle of income that we have extended and excluded from the performance, the ways in which we have protected the only real estate for life, increased the censorship, the ways in which we have delayed the operation in winter times by modelling certain European countries and what we can certainly comment on as positive, that is that it is all already incorporated into our Executive Law which is currently in the Croatian Assembly in third reading. What we cannot accept in any way is that we are in the Ministry of Justice, as well as in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and also in this High House, any one we have favored, any one we have allowed to be enriched in the executive system. What is important, to return the subject of the Implementing Law, the Implementing Law is not in itself any social law, it is the law in every country and so on in Croatia, a law which should therefore enable the believer to collect his debt from the perpetrators. What I'm paying particular attention to in the new Executive Act, which we've already said a few times, I won't repeat, and that's that we won't let the cost of the principal, so the cost of the execution be more than the debt itself. We will also not allow any debtors to be executed without being informed in advance. So on this enforcement system, we introduced a mandatory notice to the debtor and on his debt, so if he admits his debt and pays it in time, there are no more costs that have increased to several times more. So what was the objection that someone was done and that that's why he didn't even know, it won't happen this time. It is also a digitalisation of the system, an e-tower, which is what the new Executive Act provides, modelled by the Republic of Slovenia, this system that you need to know as representatives, in Slovenia lasted about 4 years to introduce itself into the executive system of Slovenia, Croatia will have something shorter, given that the technological conditions and the system have improved compared to the time Slovenia introduced it. As for the constitutional category of your bill, the abolition of a credible ID, we believe that this would result in an increase in the cost of the perpetrators, because the executive would have higher costs and therefore, in the payment of his debt, it would ultimately come to the burden of the perpetrators. As for your interest proposal, the order of payments, we've already discussed it here in this whiskey house, the very sense of interest is completely different from what you suggest in your bill. We also detected in your bill that transferring powers to the IRS would cause exactly the opposite effect, and this is an increase in costs because the system that we currently have, which we redefine, works in a way that it is a system that is already imploded, stalking and that the introduction of the IRS into the system of implementation leads to significant new financial costs on the burden I stress, the perpetrators. Also, there would be some significant disturbances in the executive system of the Republic of Croatia in globally when we look at the proposal that you have proposed, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this part that I was talking about with regard to credible documents, as regards different interest arrangements, cannot accept your bill proposal and all of the positive things that you have stated, is exactly what we have spoken about publicly and in our proposal for a law that we have been working on for more than a year and a half and our proposal is currently here in the third reading. What we need to know, I would not politicise on this subject, we certainly want to do with the new Executive Law what we promised, and that is to make a balance between the perpetrators and the executives in a way that protects the rule of law, to protect the system and the state as a whole, but also that the financial culture should exist that the perpetrator should know that the debt he took with his will should be returned in a way but under fairer conditions with costs that are minimal, I stress if he gets a notice debtor and accepts his debt without any additional costs, and you will see for a few weeks that the new Executive Law is just going to the level of what we wanted to achieve, and this is a fairer, fairer and more modern executive procedure in order to protect and performers, but also countries as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188648	You have several replicas, Mr. Salapic. The first replica is given to you by Mr. Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188649	Your Honor, as a representative of the government and the ministry, I believe you live in a parallel universe in a parallel reality. Namely, in this reality where I live, people are thrown out of the only real estate and every day. It's just today that there's one mirage by illegal RBA cooperatives, and these people you didn't protect, and these people are still being executed and decommissioned. And that's now the 3rd month you're saying there are no raids in the winter months, how is that possible, how can people be thrown out on the road today? I really don't think that you in this government live here with us, that you don't live, that we don't live on the same planet. You say you don't favor public notaries, not Finni, not law firms, not law enforcement agencies, that's a lie, that's exactly what you're guessing at. You all the laws you're doing, working to make one of them a profit, with people in that chain taking millions, 100 million kunas a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188650	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188651	Your Honor, there is first and foremost no need to talk about the way you started talking. We don't protect anyone, we don't favor anyone, I've told you about a new executive law that hasn't yet entered into force. So, you're talking about the dejections that exist right now, and I'm sorry that that's the case. The laws currently in force are completely different from what we propose to the new Executive Law. You also know that what we must do is regulate these purchases of claims by agencies. So, that's something I've been telling you about the new Executive Law, you're telling that story that you always tell, and that's your right to say whatever you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188652	Mr. Bull, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188653	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, you said that in the Living Wall proposal there were essentially things that you would refer to in the process with your new bill of law. That law is not in the procedure. These changes mean that we have no reason to accept this proposal, but there is no proposal because then it all turns out that it is essentially a pre-election law that is a pure pamphlet that will last until the election. I'm more interested in why the Croatian state and the judiciary don't respect what 2/3 brought to the assembly, it's the law on the integrity of this savings credit agreement, Raiffeisen, which the colleague mentioned, 2/3 of the majority of us passed the law, no one respects it. For what? That's the key reason. And now these people are doing, people are continuing their lawsuits, they're increasing their costs to 100,000 kunas, and today these savings-credit organisations, assisted by the same people from their homes, are driving them from Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188654	Thank you, thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188655	Dear Representative Bulj, I am pleased that you support the fellow bill's proposal, but I am a little surprised that I must remind you that the current current law, which currently exists, which my colleague says suits certain groups you have done, or MOST, and your colleague, Miroslav Šimić, a representative of the MOST at the Ministry of Justice with us several times. So maybe time heals wounds, but forget doesn't exist, at least here in this house shouldn't exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188656	Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188657	Thank you, Vice President. In his proposal for the law, the well-respected State Secretary and the Proposer himself said that they wanted to protect both the credentials and the perpetrators, and that they certainly advocate the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia, but they want to speed up the process through the e-procedure and they want to reduce the costs of carrying out the procedure through the disposal of public notebooks and others who do not need a series, and you are in this proposal for a law that left public notebooks in the process if the court has jurisdiction to carry out the executive procedure. There you are, the difference between your proposal and the motion of the Living Wall, and I think this proposal should be adopted because who knows when your bill will come into third reading. I wonder how many citizens in Croatia are currently blocked, has anyone come out of this debt slavery under the existing law or are you planning on in view of the crisis that is predicted due to the virus's crown to delay the implementation of the exercise because of people who are going to be in financial trouble because they cannot achieve their income because of the ban on traffic, the closure of borders, etc., is the Government working on anything?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188658	Thank you very much. Mr. Salapic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188659	A respected colleague of all measures related to the coronary virus will report to the public the government and the crisis headquarters, and he does it twice a day every day. I know it's popular that the opposition supports the opposition here in the assembly, and I didn't say anything contrary to what we say all the time, so this government and this ministry. The government of the Republic of Croatia has reduced the total number of people blocked by the three laws, it has made it possible for consumers to have a personal bankruptcy, it has written off certain debts that we thought could be written off up to 20,000 kuna, and the new Executive Law, and we will repeat it all the time, we are not hiding anything from the public, what is most important to keep participants in the process of applying to anyone, we just want to do the key thing, and this is to reduce the costs of the executive procedure so that the debtor pays minimum compensation for his debt if he does not decide to pay his debt in due time alone before the final procedure is launched. The system of notifying debtors is arranged in the best possible way and if you are able to pay your debt you have an opportunity under the new Executive Law to do so completely different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188660	Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188661	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, it is good that you mentioned a comparison with Slovenia and here it is forgotten that in the current law there is actually the first property that is not executed to a debt exceeding 20,000 kuna, for directors and the rest is not applied. In addition, it is important to say that in the Republic of Croatia, such wages are paid for 18 months, so the state pays for accommodation. In Slovenia, it is the case that the contractor pays himself 3 years rent for that period while the execution is ongoing. In addition, it should be said that there are only 150 thousand executives in Slovenia, and that there are more than 300 thousand in Croatia as a double, so our relationship to our debts is a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188662	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188663	Dear colleagues, we have raised a number of questions in these two years, and so today in the debate. Publicly speaking, we are in an existing system, and especially this new one, we have put more of our views on the perpetrators by wanting to help people in need. We have had objections from the EU Commission to certain solutions, so this Executive Act stands in the process longer than usual because the very idea of a performance in Europe is a balance worldwide between the perpetrators and the debtors, and it is easy to take what is positive from some law, and then tell me now you do that, and that, regardless of what you're destroying the foundations of the state, which is the foundation of the rule of law and the foundation of me which, if I gave you something honest, you have to give it back to me honestly. It's a financial culture and literacy and we ask nothing else of our citizens, so we must all behave, both you and I and everyone sitting here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188664	Thank you, too. Now we're gonna... Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188665	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on the proposed law of my fellow living wallmates. I would have to say that, when the law was passed, the amendments to the law because he told a lie and a lie one of the many tokens that flew into the unnatural coalition of HNS, SDSS Milorad Pupovac and Bandic's tokens, and of course you from the HDSSB, Kosoric's great confidants, Jadranka Kosor. I'd have to tell you that 10 amendments gave MOST away from the completed ones, none of which were accepted at the time. 10 amendments, from the fact that if a 10-year-old man is required, that there are not many other things that we have instructed, you have not accepted any. This is what the Executive Society then demanded, associations, people from the accomplished, however, you have smoothly refused, and that is why I support this. Well, if that's the worst law, then that I brought it to Miro Bulj, if it's any better, then it's better. However, you are constantly pre-election pamphlets trained and taught during the time you were a favorite of Jadranka Kosor, and later Branimir Glavas, whom you attacked most, now you are usually his, simply, it is the only staff you have because you alone and can't do anything, lies, delusions, pre-election promises, you don't want to accept these suggestions proposed by my colleagues no matter who suggested it. You say you'll suggest it. When? The day before the election? On the day of the Parliament's cease-fire, if there's a cease-fire? I think it would be of interest to this, here we see now and the crisis that will cause economic... A virus that will affect a number of businessmen, entrepreneurs, workers, for the sake of performance, so that it would be good to immediately adopt these measures by emergency procedure and improve your team. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you are interested in manipulation, pre-election promises and everything you use, not in the interest of improving our citizens, because if your interest were better, then you would respect the law on the integrity of savings and credit unions, who brought the Parliament to the majority of votes [[Thank you. Time.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188666	Time, is there anyone else? Mr. Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188667	Thank you, in the name of the Club We change Croatia and the Living Wall I am looking for a break of 10 minutes also, in particular, to discuss this State Secretary's performance in relation to the Executive Act, and in particular we want to discuss the following and ask the question here to the Secretary of State, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice, and the following: why you are still carrying out the exercises and we want to stress that it has been necessary to react to the level of the draft of the Executive Law, and we have not heard that, but also at the level of legal practice. In fact, the existing procedure for issuing a performance solution on the basis of a credible document, as we are constantly warning, is not allowed in the consumer section and practice has already to be changed. Such solutions must no longer be issued because they do not meet the minimum of the required standards, above all, the principle of effective protection, be careful. The deadline for the 8-day objection is too short for citizens of consumers. The legal requirement for consumers is unacceptable, the objection must be explained in order for it to be allowed, and not only that, Mr Secretary, you from the EU Commission have been given a direct order, to act and simply disable the implementation of the mandate. You as a government, executive authority don't listen to that same Brussels, but you manipulated and searched all the time, and in this new proposal that you drag to the elections, it's never going to be over, it doesn't matter when it's going to be, it's the worst executive law there, the civilization shame, right now, society. Therefore, show where your prime minister is, which he is now doing, which does not implement the EU court's legal provisions, the EU Commission, suspend all charges because you are bound by a superior law, which is EU directives. Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188668	Anyone else looking for a break? All right, I'd like a break by 13 and 15, and then we'll proceed with the statement on behalf of the representatives' clubs and independent representatives. Here you go. I'll meet you at 13.15. It's 13,03 hours. Let's continue to discuss the law, which we're actually opening now. The first is in front of the Living Wall and let's change Croatia Mr. Ivan Lovrinović who will share his time with Mrs. Sabolek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188670	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Ministry of Justice, and I particularly welcome you fellow citizens. In the beginning, I will say that in front of the Party we change Croatia I support the proposal of the Executive Law which has been proposed by the Living Wall because it is indeed one intention, with a serious intention that all citizens who are in such a difficult situation who have little understanding of people who have let us say good wages, especially those who have come to certain places with political ties. They're people, I'm trying to understand who these people are, how they can sleep at night, with which they think. They can neither sleep nor wake up normally. So, the man who's under threat of execution, he's not a free man. His life is reduced to a simple collection every day so much and so much kuna that he can pay off a certain war. That's why this law is really good, the bill of law is welcome, and I'm not going to read as much here right now, but when I cross my eyes exactly six parliamentary deputies. Therefore, it can be read that all those who are not here, especially the ruling ones, because they manage, they pass, they vote the laws to believe that this is a completely irrelevant issue in Croatia, a maltene that there is no problem with the completed, blocked etc. But, dear citizens, it's all about us, when election day comes, who thinks this is a good situation, so go ahead and keep voting for them, but don't complain anymore, you know, don't complain about how many citizens are blocked under the covers. If only they go to the polls and give their voice to the new people who are really fighting for them, then we will beg here very soon. One number of people will never watch again that defends the financial oligarchy, who defends this executive mafia, and therefore, this whole food chain that starts with some small non-payments of HRT fees and earns attorney offices, public notebooks, and, of course, finally FINA performs without asking anyone. What I would like to stress here in front of our expert team, which means welcoming this law, is, and the proposal is here, the ministry, so come on, for 2, 3 years we have been proposing to you, put in place a provision for each party to pay its own expenses in the executive procedure, and we will immediately make 70% of the implementation of such a matter meaningless and they will not be launched. But you won't, we're passing it on to you, you're doing 26 now, the 26th version of the Executive Law, but I mean and I just see by this argument that was before, you don't want to hear this either. I will take this opportunity, again I call on you, I call on the Constitutional Court, I call on the Supreme Court, to answer the question of why the executions are carried out in Croatia when it is an EU court as a competent law, so the verdict is that no enforcement can be carried out on the basis of public records, credible documents. So, to prevent that practice, we hear that the wave of accommodations and houses that live there has started again. Stop it, you are violating EU legislation. Now I'd like to say a few words about just one difficult problem that is related to our citizens who have been taking loans related to Swiss francs. I'm reading today's newspaper, yesterday's paper, especially some newspapers that come out in the morning, and they're called, they've already ruled, watch out, they're scaring Croatian citizens who've been in charge of CHF loans, they've taken and what they say is, now, the message is next, the banks need to take a breath after the Supreme Court's ruling, and you'll actually get the citizens killed. You see, it's not enough for citizens to fear only the coronary virus, but it's afraid of them, which is why they give up the further lawsuit, to give up practically their rights, and that what the banks took, to keep them, and that's what they illegally acquired. I repeat, respected citizens, our professional team of legal teams who sat until late yesterday and worked on this interpretation, means the rulings of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, with consultations with prominent experts, authorities in the field of legal science and profession, we have come to the following conclusions, which I will change here on behalf of the party, and they are related to the proposal of the Executive Law because a large number of executions are derived precisely from these, unfortunate Swiss, credit in Swiss. So, we believe, we have opinions, so on the basis of the opinion of legal experts, that the ruling has answered the Supreme Court's question, at that time, the Supreme Court held the exact questions, or the claim that came from the case court in Pazin. So in a formal sense, the Supreme Court has answered the question. However, the media now interprets it differently, of course, in favour of banks. So you know that some months ago, two RB Raiffeisen banks were looking for a public, PR agency that would put pressure on the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. Now that was the reason that personally I was on behalf of the party to change Croatia against them filed criminal charges and wait now for what the DORH will do. No one's answering. But we'll ask them, we'll visit them over the head. So in a formal sense, the Supreme Court has answered the question. From the reasons for this decision, it is apparent that the Supreme Court followed the argument of the Constitutional Court which it made on the basis of the bank's proposal that the Constitutional Court suspends, by a provisional measure, the application of the Law on Conversion, which the Constitutional Court then refused, that is what you remember. The Constitutional Court then said that contracts concluded under the Law on Conversion should not be regarded as classic mandatory law contracts. Why? So because he mentioned the law on the one hand, he prescribed the banks to offer consumers such a contract, leaving consumers free of choice, while the contents of the annexes of the conversion contract in an important part prescribed banks to have to, and what did he prescribe? That they have to change one currency clause, that Swiss franc into another, that's the euro. It is therefore true that this is not about the fact that both parties freely agreed to amend the basic contract. So that's true. In other words, the basis of the annexes, this conversion contract is the Law on Conversion, and therefore the standard solutions of the Law on Mandatory Relations are not applicable to it and on this side the correct and expected justification of the Supreme Court. That's right. Secondly, the problem is, which was missed in the review dispute, and since the issue has been raised too narrowly, those views under which the Law on Conversion on the basis of it has signed an annex of a contract between banks and consumers take away the rights conferred on them by a powerful collective verdict. But this collective verdict was that the contract was worthless. Well, that's out of the question from a constitutional point of view. Namely, no law, and especially one that has been passed and entered into force since the beginning of the collective process, can cancel the legal effect of the collective judgment from the process which started earlier and which has been recognised by consumers by certain rights under the Croatian Consumers Act, and all of which, under the 1993 Law Directive, means, which is defined by the EU court and, meanwhile, raised to public order. The value of the contract, and these annexes, only has an impact on the amount of damage that the consumer is entitled to, or to be simpler, you see. That you understand me better. So how will the story end in the end? In the final reckoning, since the change in the currency clause from the Swiss franc to the EUR-o was made, when the final reckoning is finally brought down, citizens will get a little less than they expected, but only a little less. Therefore, you must not let your fellow citizens give up on this even though the banks of these days will make everything possible for you, through their journalists or scribes, to influence you, to frighten you, not to guide you and to give up. Now, that's what they're waiting for. You know, since 2011, I've been looking for an end to the currency clause, I've been right to the European Court of First Instance, I'm going to stay with you until the end, we're going to fight to the end, and you're going to get your money by the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188671	Mrs. Sabolek will continue to give an opinion on this law of her club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188672	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens, colleagues and colleagues, I find it very difficult today to see an empty assembly like this when discussing such an important issue. It is very difficult for me to see an empty assembly like this because my colleagues have been on the occupancy three times today within a week, thank God they have successfully prevented their pressures. The Living Wall proposal simplifies and cheapens the executive procedure, has no mediators, significantly reduces the cost of carrying out the performance, there are solutions that protect the only home. The main intention is to facilitate the position of debtors to put an end to debt, endless blockades. The ultimate madness must be put to an end. It's probably clear to everyone. Although all the relevant institutions of the Republic of Croatia are aware that the RBA cooperatives operate illegally in Croatia because they are not registered as legal persons or have the permission of the CNB, the Ministry of Finance for Credit Activity remains silently killing numerous citizens by throwing them out on the street at a time when they are no longer able to repay their interest loans. We managed to keep families in their homes, we managed to keep the family in Remeta's home, a few days ago we prevented the family of Shurina, a 76-year-old grandmother who weighed 38kg and her husband a cancer patient lying in bed stayed in his home. The family took out a loan in 2006 of EUR 31,000, 700 thousand, and they were paid EUR 27,000, the commission was EUR 4,700, imagine. They returned almost half of it, the son was blocked by the RBA cooperative on 460,000 kunas and seized from their land estimated at nearly a million kunas on Remeta. What's the state doing? Once again, we ask how is it possible that illegal cooperatives of our citizens' interest and that nobody cares? What shocks the most in the whole case, but in many similar cases, is the fact that the Republic of Croatia often sends intervention police to people in difficult situations, in order to protect the interests of an Austrian credit cooperative who is illegally operating in Croatia and who, by all accounts, does not pay a kuna tax in the Croatian budget. It's obvious there's a hidden power that controls all of this. I don't know what else to say or how to explain the fact that the state is protecting illegal cooperatives. Because if someone is not registered as a legal person he cannot act in the Republic of Croatia and point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188673	Mr Damjan Vucelic will speak on behalf of the promoter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188674	Dear citizens, all of you who have found yourself in the plight of the performance, the blockage and ultimately the reflection of this speech will not be unknown to you, you know what I'm talking about, you know what the Executive Law has done to you, you know what the SDP has done to you as a beginner of the executive law, and continued the team from HDZ, you know what the situation has led you to. But the rest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have not yet come into that position, and it is only a matter of when they will come into that position because the system is designed to make half of the citizens when they come under the influence of losing their property to lose everything they have in their account. Those who don't know what's going on can expect this situation to happen in a few years. I listened to what the secretary of state was saying, and I have to say that I haven't heard so much demagogy since last week from another secretary of state and everyone's saying the same thing. Everyone says very convincingly, and you think what they're saying makes sense, and in reality what I told him is a completely different situation. It's a different reality in which they live and some different facts that they convince you of. I was talking yesterday about corruption in the Centre for Vehicles of Croatia, as the team from the MUP shared a lucrative business of technical examinations of the vehicle and registration of the vehicle. What's going on in that so-called. The ultimate mafia is the same modus operandi, namely the former judges have shared jobs, the public notebooks' jobs on it draw 100 million kuna a year, when I say that this government, that this secretary of state, that his ministry protects these people, is the truth. They protect their profits and not the public notaries themselves, but also the FINE which is the only agency in Europe of this type, as well as law firms that charge huge astronomical figures where people increase their costs by multiple times more, especially at smaller amounts, people are known to owe double or more than the principal. And what the secretary of state is saying to this executive law that they're proposing for the hundredth time is not going to get rid of anything. The perpetrator won't find himself in a better position. I still need to mention the claims agency like here's Smatrix B2 capital. If you didn't know they were buying your debts by 20% of the banks or, say, the teleoper. They'll make a lot of money on you. And yet the time has not come when these vultures will begin to collect their full claims when they will begin to take your houses. But believe me, it will come and it will come to you overnight. Believe me. Be assured of that. Then you'll see what one foreign company that doesn't care about our citizens can do to our citizens. This was still nothing waiting for you. And these people like this secretary of state, they protect those people. All these people from public notebooks, all the way down to the final banks and those claim collection agencies, they protect and work in their interests. They don't work in the interests of citizens. If they were working in the interests of the citizens, they'd be protected. They'd protect them from the execution, protect them from the loss of real estate. We can't pay that money every year through interest payments. No way. Every year there will be more and more done. But that's why debts can be written off by their partners, I can do it. But the poorest citizens who are the most in Croatia can't. They'll be drained to the limit, until people start killing what they're doing because they have nowhere to go, no exits, people on the road end up and now people like that, here I am looking at myself. They shouldn't be able to sleep at midnight, but they're most normally rising in the morning, most normal, with them there's no morale they'll keep it going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188675	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative, Marija Jelkovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188676	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's something I'm going to say about this proposal in front of the Croatian Democratic Community Club. But before I say anything about the proposal itself, I have to look back on the statements and the promoters and some colleagues from the opposition who participated before me in the debate. So when we talk about such a concrete law, then I would like us to really stick to the subject and to what that law is and what this law regulates. So this issue of the Executive Law is indeed an important topic, but today we are not discussing this issue for the first time in the term of office of this government. This government has therefore launched the first amendment to the existing Implementing Law when we have improved to a good extent these amendments that are still in force as perpetrators. Three laws have also been passed that have entered into force and facilitate both the situation and the blocked. And that shows how well this government is aware of the problems in society that concern both blocked and completed. So don't stand these demagogue thesis we've heard. As far as the executive law is concerned, we had him here in two readings. We've had a lot of discussion about him. And before Christmas on December 22nd, the last time we voted before the break was decided that the law was going into the third reading. Therefore, it is not true that this Government does not worry about the Executive Law and that this term does not account for it. As far as this proposal is concerned, I must say that, in fact, everything proposed by the Ministry of Justice has been prescribed in the proposal of the Executive Law. Some of them are simply, some of the details are only novoised and proposed in a different way, and this concerns first and foremost the difference regarding eradicating the enforcement provisions on the basis of a credible document, then increasing the number of receipts that are excluded from the exercise itself, raising amounts below which cannot be applied to the real estate that the Government has already done in its proposal, amending the order of counting the regulation of higher penalties for violations and replacing the Financial Agency as the authorities responsible for carrying out the enforcement on cash with the Tax Administration. So, as far as these particular differences are concerned, I'm just going to say some things in a couple of cartoons. Before that, I would like to say what the Secretary of State said and what our citizens are aware of. If we want to be organized, then we have to have an executive law that will be balanced, which will be equally protected by the perpetrator but also by an executive who is a believer in that case. So the debt is long and the debt should be paid back. And ever since there was a human community, there's always been debts and always debts have to come back. So I don't think we're allowed to talk about the executive law too much about some demagogue stuff. To speak here about RBA cooperatives is not the place in this way because the executive law primarily regulates how in a forced way to repay the debt by the debtors to the believer in a situation where the debtor did not repay that debt as agreed. So, now I will just briefly look back on these differences that I have said that this bill proposed by Mr. Col. Vucelic, which is what I said to abolish the system on the basis of a credible document and propose that the implementation be carried out exclusively on the basis of the executive documents. This would, in fact, represent a significant increase in the cost of forced collection of the creditor's claims and would increase the length of the forced collection process. Also, forced collection through regular litigation would also mean significant pressure on courts which would lead to long-term proceedings for which time would also be subject to heavy interest which would also increase costs. It is obvious that the proposal would make forced collection ineffective, long-term for the believer and with increased costs of forced collection for the perpetrator, which would necessarily lead to a significant increase in the number of long-term blocked citizens. The proposed delivery arrangement in the way it was done in this proposal does not provide sufficient legal certainty and thus, in this proposal of the law, it is not well regulated, because delivery provisions must be clear and unambiguous because of the fact that delivery depends on when and how deadlines begin. The deadlines are important because they also determine when we can invest legal medicines or use other appropriate remedies in a given situation. In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also points out that the disputed principle of settlement as set out in Article 15 of this Law is in such a way that an executive has the right to compensation only to the total amount of the principal of the auditor's cash demand. This principle is contrary to the basic principle of executive law that the costs of the procedure relating to the determination and implementation of the performance and insurance are previously borne by the executive and that the Executive Director, or the insurance opponent, is obliged to subsequently reimburse the costs necessary for the performance or insurance. So, we heard here today in the debate from fellow Lovrinovic that the proposal that each party should bear its own costs. Now I'm asking all the believers, and we here who are to meet in the position of the believer would such a provision be fair to us. So when I said that the executive law must be balanced against both the perpetrator and the executives, I mean all such suggestions that when we talk about them and discuss them, we have to bear in mind first and foremost the balance, also the principle of fairness. Furthermore, the limitation of the cost to the principal would mean that, in certain cases, the burden of carrying out the operation would thus be transferred to the executive, which is also the imbalance of the executive procedure to the injury of the executive, which I also said. So, following all this that I have cited, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will not support this proposal because it is not good, which is a way that would be fair and good for both the executives and the executives does not propose the day of the solution, and also in the third reading procedure, we will have a proposal for the Executive Law proposed by the Government that we have already had through two readings and I believe that we will come up with the best possible proposal for the Executive Law that we will after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188677	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Damjan Vucelic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188678	Councilwoman Jelkovac, here I listened very carefully to what you were saying. I'd like to invite you to the next raid, and about every week there's one that we know about, which people call us, I'd like to invite you to come to one of those things to defend people from taking their home violently, to hear their stories. These are more or less deceived people, especially as far as RBA cooperatives are concerned. I don't know if you're aware of the way they worked and how they still work today because you let them. Those RBA cooperatives, those cheaters who took people's money they're on... 30,000 euros or 25,000 euros, or 20,000 euros of borrowed credit, were placed in their pocket for compensation immediately at the hand of the 5,000-euro money. So you have a modus operand of these people who should be in jail for me, not free to walk. You said debt is long and debt should be paid back. I ask you, Mrs. Jelkovac, how people will repay that debt. You, HDZ, and I won't leave the SDPs unnamed, you've led to this situation so people can't pay back the debt. And we've been pounding all the time that debt can't go back into this system. Simply every year, there will be more and more completed people, more and more people who will be left without their homes. And that's the reality of Croatia, and you did it. You did it by robbery, by corruption, by neptivism, by guessing. That's what you made of Croatia. And then from those same people you destroyed who have nothing to eat, they don't know if they'll be able to sleep under the roof tomorrow you tell them it's a long one and the debt needs to be paid back. And believe me, most of them are not to blame for the condition they've come to. It's not her fault. He's got a drone, but most people aren't responsible for it. You're the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the I wasn't in power, so to tell you, Damian, you're responsible for that. No, you are responsible for sitting here in the House of Decisions. I always make negative decisions. I vote against your laws because I believe and responsibly claim that the decisions and the laws you make in this House are not in the interest of the citizens. They are in the interest of individuals, in the interest of the company, in the interest of the banks, in your personal interests whether it's monetary or perhaps career, but in any case they're in your interests. I say, you do not work for the good of this people. You don't work and this people will only be able to breathe when you're out of control, and this executive law that you're doing right now won't change anything. So if we want to remove the public notebooks and the FINA from this entire executive procedure and give it to the courts to solve it, it's entirely possible and realistic. In Slovenia, 5 judges solve the whole of Slovenia, 5 judges, and we have hundreds of employees in Croatia. I'm asking you, how many hundred judges do we have? So to tell me that 10 or 20 judges couldn't solve Croatia, that's not true. And thus, if those judges of yours who are otherwise arrests and unemployed and do not do their work and were bribed if they were to do their work, then they would not be a long-standing court case. He wouldn't, nor would he be more expensive for an executor, because he would be quickly resolved. And in the beginning, we argue that 50% would speed up the process if you went to the courts, not through these public notebooks that put hundreds of millions in your pocket every year. And why is that? Because there's another kind of mob like everything in this country. There are a lot of stakeholders who are paralysing against Croatian citizens, and that's true for you. It happens and every citizen knows it. So many people are aware of that, they've already Googled it. When I talk to them about crime, they already have thick skin, through one ear enters through another. They don't react to that at all. They don't mean anything to them anymore when I tell them someone stole millions, billions, it doesn't mean anything to them because they don't have a thousand kunas in their pocket. They can't even figure out what a billion is, I can't. He doesn't know what he's gonna buy to eat tomorrow. You don't move in circles like that. You have a high salary, but do you know that for one of your salaries, people are left without apartments? They run out of houses for one of your salaries. And you won't change anything with what you are now up to 20,000 kuna. Nothing, because the debt that they haven't paid for five years is going to be paid by the interest, with all the expenses they're going to get from the bank's lawyers, some robbery lawyers, which they're going to have to take away their public records again, it's going to grow by 20,000 kuna in five, eight years, and they're going to be out of an apartment again. And what's worse in the public auction is their apartment sold for half the price, for half the price, and they're still due. They sell, an apartment worth 100,000 euros is sold for 50,000 euros at the end of the day, and they don't even get their money back because they all lose. They are on the road without swearing here is the reality of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188679	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be that bridge of independent lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188680	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, secretary, if anyone follows the amendments to the law, I would say first of all that since he is the secretary of the ministry, that before I begin the law itself, it would be good to consider the actions of the Ministry of Justice, i.e. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, which will cause damage at this time due to the current virus so that it would be good for the Government to make these measures easier for entrepreneurs who will also have damage to those who are in tourism and who are already announcing damages and, of course, farmers, I told the OPGs at the time. I believe when there is already a secretary to hear that voice from the Parliament that it would be good to have these measures proposed by colleagues also a little faster, because at this point there will certainly be a lot more people who will not be able to repay their obligations not only because of them, but because of this moment the virus that threatens not only health but also about the impact on our economy, our agriculture. Here we see our transport workers and companies, and in particular this will affect our tourism most, so it would be good to come up with some measures to our citizens on the subject and on the final subject. Well, here I would briefly say about this law that in fact, as far as I understand it, the secretary of state did not object to these amendments, as a colleague from HDZ said she would be implemented in a future law that would be pre-election law. A pamphlet like all pamphlets, he said, then it'll all be in some future law because now it's a choice and there will be promises now. That way, citizens don't have to worry about it at all, it'll all be settled by colleagues from Vucelic, you live wall colleagues will all write it now before the election will be... promises we'll see. But, realistically speaking, at this point, you said at one point that the Bridge was involved in it. Yeah, he's given 17 amendments. You didn't accept any, just so much what we're working on. And I of course if we're the culprits of a certain failure in this law I'll accept what colleagues give if... Which you accept if it makes it easier for our citizens, so that means there's no problem at all. [[You don't understand.]] It's easy to agree if it's better for our citizens. But the question is, is it in the interest of this law of lobbies within public notebooks, lawyers' lobbys I don't know, is it in the citizens' interest? In whose interest is this and whose interest do you represent here? It's no problem for me to accept from anyone a good proposal, no matter how much I agree, I don't have any problem with it. I'm sorry that you're boycotting opposition laws, or you're pushing them into the process, first of all, because the HDZ elections are to pass, so the opposition demands will go through in the shadows, so there should have been two opposition laws tomorrow. One is mine about the ban on glyphosate, the poison that destroys Croatian agriculture, destroys health, destroys nature and the environment, and we call ourselves. However, there were not enough members on the board now. Tomorrow, that law was the first. They're deliberately boycotting to discuss it too, and it's a very important law. So I think the Ministry of Justice here if you're already changing the law and you accept in part what will help our citizens and those you can do if you can. I think that would be acceptable and that would be good for you. It would be a reasonable message that you are acceptable, that you are broad, that you understand what is good that you think you will implement in the future law, so in part you will easily change it into a comprehensive new law that you announce if there are measures that are acceptable to you. The colleagues listed here the meanings of the share,... the great costs of the public records, FINA, they listed these things for years mention enlargement, so those who will be excluded from the enforcement of the extension of certain receipts they also listed, so I don't see any problem here that you accept it, not that you attack. I don't know why you always have a position to attack something that's good. I remember when I was part of the majority, I didn't agree with the budget, the vote against the budget without problems or the opposition at the time were me colleagues from the SDP something was about emergency aid, we accepted it, passed their amendment. I don't see the problem of what's important, and most of the time, here we are talking about the issue of the Executive Law and the problems that will cause this virus, as well as the refugee crisis itself that has threatened it. these illegal migrants that will cause numerous difficulties to our entrepreneurs by losing their jobs. Which means that measures already trial are to be measures here before the assembly, but legal changes in this form or similar form to facilitate people who won't be able to pay their bills, because if someone isn't at work, no job or his employer loses his job either in transport, either in any other branch, we won't pay their employees. And of course we'd like to talk about it now, which means the problem that's causing this virus right now. Not only about the safety of our residents' health, which we would do anything to absolutely block the borders, because the most important health is, but unfortunately, the vermin within the Ministries have destroyed our food production, because we are importing food, so we are still dependent on imports, but unfortunately I am calling once again at this point, but when we talk in context, the most important security of our citizens is now. Nothing is more important right now than the safety of our citizens, health security and the need to work on it. However, the consequences of everything when we make security will be the consequences of certain economic branches and economies. Therefore, I personally urge you once again, as a representative of the Government to come out with the measures as soon as possible, people will not be able to pay their bills, to see what you as the Ministry of Justice can do, what proposals to make and to give us here. And not for the last seven days, only the opposition proposals are being pushed, even some of them are being avoided, here's not even finding this majority for the Committee in agriculture, so the majority came in the other one, as 100 people are now banned together, so there are 150 of us, so we're not tribbing the coronary virus to be an empty assembly. The assembly is empty and for all of this it will sometimes be difficult to reach 100 except in the moments of Friday when the vote, I don't know if tomorrow's vote, no, so we won't have that problem. Secretary, respected citizens, respected legislators, respected colleagues, we are in a small number and colleagues, I believe that the measures should go under emergency and in this direction of the Implementing Law because the measures that will now stop the virus's current causes not only in question mean health but also economic effects which, unfortunately, they will have. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188681	On behalf of the promoter, re-respected representative Damjan Vucelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188682	Mr. Bulj, here's a very good question you've asked. What happens to entrepreneurs and owners of small crafts after this pandemic now? In fact, they'll all have profits, some of them won't have a job at all. What's gonna happen? It will happen that in a year or so, even if the new Executive Act comes into force, these people will be executed, they will lose real estate again, they will lose their money in accounts, or they will remain blocked until their death. That's what happens to most of our citizens. And now I'm curious about how this government is going to protect these people. In fact, this government does not protect its people at all, it protects its people in its interest group, which is HDZ and people connected to HDZ and their satellite parties and their members. But your citizens, who are 90%, don't protect you. In order for these 10% to calm down and to live as a living person has to work for them, they have to drain someone all the time, and that's you. And you must be aware, they live on your sweat, on your blood. And this executive law certainly won't change it either, and it's not in their interest to change it, and that's why I'm afraid what's going to happen now with people who are going to lose money, their life savings and investments after this virus. But not just them, I care about all the citizens and even the future of this country. I believe that with a government like this, and even with an alternative to the SDP, nothing is good. You citizens will have to think the same thing about whether the voice for them is a voice for you, for your future and for your well-being, because I am convinced that it is not. The same my colleagues here today in the assembly who support this motion of the Living Wall, this executive law thinks they don't work on your behalf. I must point out that the Living Wall is now active again in the field, defending people from dejection. And people call us every week, they pay, they fear for their future. We're going out on the field and we're protecting them from these raids, but ask yourselves a year ago, while the Living Wall was at 10, 12, 15% there was no dissection. They weren't at the time. And why is that? Because this government has given an indication that the dissections don't take place so that the Living Wall won't be further up the ratings, and then there was no dissuasion. Think about it, and now they're on their way again. These RBA cooperatives have waved, they've been vampires, tomorrow it's going to be Smatrix, B2 Capital, they're neither Privredna, Zagrebačka nor other banks any better, but they're watching how they work, and they're touching the real estate for the reasons they're working on their PR, they don't want a negative ad, so watch out. But trust me, they do. But these, B2 Capital, EOS Matrix, they're foreigners, foreign companies, which they care about you. This government, this secretary of state, this ministry, is not protecting you, and why they would protect you. And while you're voting for them, every four years they're going to think they're going to pass the election, and they're going to continue to act that way. But shake them a little, swing the chair, and you'll see how they change. Because be assured, they do everything they do to win the election, and they will promise you exactly how much they will give you, so much so that they get those few votes more to go through, to have most of this Parliament. The SDP also works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188683	The replica of your presentation has a respected representative named Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188684	A colleague, Vucelic, so unfortunately, when a certain threat comes, will see the results of the poor work of the Croatian government, it will be seen that, as I said, we have a problem that we do not have enough food products, we are increasingly importing, we are giving more and more incentives, and never less domestic production. This means under a large questionnaire, and when these are threatened, then people should be invited, firstly they should be protected, firstly, health security, they should be immediately closed down and invested in domestic production. But everything will only be seen the effects of the import lobby, which was done by the executive mafia, will now be seen the effects of poor governance in any kind of threat, and especially in such a threat as this virus that appeared, therefore, we should urgently invite all of us to buy our domestics and return to our manufacturers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188685	The answer of the respected representative Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188686	Yes, Representative Bulj, you are absolutely right, namely, Croatia is designed as one colony and I often talk about it and of course it is in the interest of colonisers to push their products into our market, and that our raw materials are drawn from Croatia and made by the final product in their countries and they prosper. And what happens in Croatia? It happens in Croatia, which is rich, which could sustain ten times as many inhabitants because we have a fertile, rich country, it happens that we could not feed our population for the next 3 months. And in case some disaster really happens, so we're on our own, so our people will starve. This isn't any, no now spreading the truth or panic, it's facts. So our food production, industry, anything, was destroyed and deliberately destroyed. That's why HDZ would benefit from foreign interests, and that's what HDZ does. He's been doing this for 30 years, and what did he do with Croatia? He made us poor, that we don't have to feed our population if it comes to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188687	Thank you. The next individual debate was supposed to be Djujic's representative, he's gone, he's losing his right to debate. The next one was to be a respected representative of Maras, he is gone, he is losing his right to debate, and finally, on behalf of the Living Wall Club, and let's change Croatia again, the respected representative Damjan Vucelic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188688	Thank you, Chairman. In the final speech, I would also like to refer to something we did not mention today, which is the conduct of an electronic executive procedure, i.e. We didn't mention him enough. Namely, why does the rulers of any electronics not respond? In fact, if you were to conduct an electronic executive procedure, not only would you speed up the whole process but this and the procedure would be more transparent. And why doesn't the ruling want transparency? It's not just about the performance, it's about everything. From the administration, the state administration, the city administrations, the municipal administrations, they don't want transparency, they don't want it to be all in one place. The more involved in some papers, in paperwork where nothing can be found, the better for them, they bloom in such systems. And in such systems, the most darkening can be. We are proposing something that is not only desirable in today’s day but easy to achieve and at minimum costs. You will be robbed by a local HDZ builder for usually someone repairing the sewer pipe for 2 million kuna. For 2 million kuna you will be taken for it. And that must be three to five times overpaid. And for 2 million kuna, you can arrange an entire one system. Here, let's say for electronic conduct and for those small money that we already have and in the proposal of our executive law predict where we could be taken from, we can sort it all out. But unfortunately, it's not in everyone's best interest to have something like that. And we live in, now here it is in 2020, we live in an electronic age where everything should be digitized, everything should be a mouse reach. We're not doing it yet, but it's still messy, from garters to this. Simply, Croatia has been stuck in some dark weather since 30 years ago, nothing has changed or is working to change. If something changes, it's either because of the vote or that some "birth", some godfather makes money at the job, and we just can't function anymore, they're ruining us. And until this government realizes that it has to start taking over proposals from the Living Wall and from other parties because we propose good changes, good laws, good amendments to the law, while they practically, here in this Parliament's term, all amendments, all of the bill's proposals have been rejected, it doesn't lead anywhere. So what do they think they're the only ones right? I mean, we know they're not into anything, they're not working for citizens' interests, but we could at least take something from us that would improve the standard for everyone. The living wall prays here, all MPs who understand what this is all about to vote for this bill. It would also be good to see which hand from HDZ, if not as a party machine, where they only obey the orders of Mr. Brkic and the team, Mr. Bačić, but to think for themselves, to fight and to say, look, these are my people, who chose me in this House, I was on that election list to represent their interests and to really represent their interests and to raise their hands when their law is against their interests or when some law is for their interests. Make them MPs. It is the true meaning of that word, to represent the people who chose them, not to represent HDZ and HDZ policies leading this country to ruin. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188689	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. I'll see you tomorrow at 9:30, we'll start by supplementing the agenda, and then it'll be the first point of the bill on the ban on glyphosate, first reading. P.Z. Number 751 of MPs of Mira Bulj. Have a good afternoon. Session interrupted at 14.39 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-03-12-0.u188690	Proposal for an Executive Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 672. Proposer is representative Damjan Vucelic, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Implementing Law proposal is not accepted. Who's against it? Who's restrained? And who's in? I find that most of the votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Let's see exactly what the score was, 84 for, 5 abstentions and 35 against.
