ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199694	I'm going back to the beginning, the Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Representatives. Further to the overall situation in the Republic of Croatia, caused by the pandemic of Coronavirus, COVID-19 and the measures taken to protect the public The National Civil Protection Staff Decision on the ban on the maintenance of all sports competitions, including training, the sports sector in the Republic of Croatia, following the fate and other segments and components of society, was found in large and numerous problems. Looking at the overall situation and with the aim of helping Croatian sport, the Croatian Government reached its conclusion at a session held on 9 April this year, which established measures to assist the sport system due to the coronary virus epidemic. These measures have defined aid to protect the substance made up of people in their workplaces and to ensure the regularity of competition in both this and the next season. Problems whose solution requires urgent intervention in the Sport Act in order to remove them are evident in two basic directions. Emergency intervention in the Sport Act so that they can be removed, is evident in two basic directions. The first question is the legal conclusion of the competition season 2019/20. As well as the process of possible and expected changes to the competition system for the 2020/2021 competition season. According to the current Law on Sports, in Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, 61st century 1 and 2 is defined as who, in which way and in which time limits the system of competitions in each sport is established. What is in this situation in which we are currently in place and when we still do not see a quick exit, the rapid end of the pandemic is questionable that the competition system must be brought no later than one year before the start of the season for which it is brought and the possibility of changing the competition system or its early completion is not defined. There is also a questionable possibility of meeting the national union bodies which can make those decisions, which is mainly the assembly. The definition of new provisions opens up the possibility of changing the competition system in the event of exceptional circumstances and shortens the time limit for the competition system and the next season's proposition, and also allows for the decision-making bodies of the National Alliance to take the executive body, i.e. the Executive Board. Of course, this is all about the extraordinary situations in which Croatia is currently located. In order to make decisions on the competition system according to the new system, they are responsible for the national alliance with the approval of the Central State Sport Office, and according to the previous opinion of the Croatian Olympic, Croatian Paralympic and Croatian Olympic Alliance of the Deaf. The second intervention in the Sport Act refers to ensuring the legal possibility of direct support from the Central State Sport Office for clubs whose sustainability has been compromised and questioned. A large number of sports associations, and I would venture to say that it is almost all clubs which, due to the loss of their own income from basic activities, are membership fees, sponsors, souvenir sales and tickets, and many are reduced and the incomes of local administration units do not have the ability to pay their salaries to their workers and are the only remaining layoffs. When we talk about workers, and here, above all, we think about coaches, leaders, professional leaders, instructors, physiotherapists, necessary administrative and technical staff, just these people are made by athletes and the essence of sports. We must not forget that more than 120,000 children, young and young, are engaged in some kind of sport annually, and that these people we are trying to provide with pay are exactly the same professional part, to a good extent and to raise our children. Complementary, therefore, Art. 74th is proposed a provision allowing the Central State Sport Office to grant support for the preservation of jobs in the event of special circumstances that threaten the life and health of citizens. This direct assistance will be evident in ensuring the minimum salaries of those workers in sports associations, communities and alliances, at the same time already adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the form of assistance for the same purposes for the Croatian economy. The support measures therefore apply exclusively to the preservation of jobs, while the amount, duration of support and additional criteria will be defined by a decision taken by the Central State Sport Office, following the adoption of the Law on Sports Supplements, in accordance with the law and other acts of the Government which define the measures. It is a condition for obtaining these incentives, that workers for whom support is sought are employed for a specified or indefinite time, that the funds for the same purpose are not secured from other public sources and that they meet the legal requirements for work. The Government of the Republic of Croatia at its session, as I said from 9 April 2020, adopted and submitted to HS the proposal for a law supplementing the Sport Act, with a final proposal for an emergency procedure law. Dear President of the Parliament. Dear MPs and respected MPs, please support this Law on Sports Supplements to determine the legal basis for support for clubs as soon as possible, because the processes that are certainly not good are already taking place and can have serious consequences for the future of Croatian sport that we are all so proud of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199695	I thank the Secretary of State. We've got five replicas, first up, buddy Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199696	Thank you very much. State Secretary, this crisis also shows that up until now it has been mishandled in sport, how it has invested funds in projects that have not developed sport, mainly in rural areas, these are 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia, where sport, sport, non-infrastructure, mainly for children and amateurs, has been invested in giant projects that the Croatian state, local self-government, will pay for years more, that was what the problem with building sports halls that are not rentable, large sports halls and we will still pay for it for years, these are the damages that have been done for our children in rural areas, the local self-governments do not have the opportunity to pay for this, so that most children in rural areas except... bigger cities don't know what the hall looks like or what the parquet looks like [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, this crisis today will also show this debate [[Intruder: Thank you]] how much trouble we have in sports by mishandling sports. [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Bulj]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199697	Here's your answer. Would you like some? If you don't want to, you don't have to, but you can. You have one minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199698	Thank you. Dear Mr. Representative, thanks to this government or this assembly, two good things happened last year for Croatian sport, perspective for the future. The process of informing the entire system of sports is launched on the basis of which, when it is filled, we will have a full overview of the picture of the overall state of sport, including the sports infrastructure and the intention of building exactly, to disperse local and sports facilities by the Republic of Croatia in order to develop evenly in this regard. And secondly, the law has been passed, the National Sport Programme has also been adopted, which also gives us at the Central State Sport Office, of course, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia a certain obligation in this direction that you have spoken of, and that is what we feel and see as a single problem, and that is, I repeat, evenly, in fact, ensuring even conditions. All our citizens for sports. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199699	Let's go to another replica, colleague Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199700	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, of course this proposal is good and alone, together with representatives of the Rijeka Sports Union, have spoken in recent weeks and have sought solutions to ensure that sport comes out of this crisis that will certainly be difficult, especially when we talk about sports, we think about top athletes, and here it is really crucial how to enable young people to deal with sports to a greater extent, so I support this proposal. One question that I am interested in, are you considering that the Croatian Olympic Committee's funds for the Olympic Games are also being rerouted this year since the Olympic Games will not be? And secondly, what do you do to resolve the problem of training top athletes, especially in individual sports that could start dealing with their training process immediately? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199701	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199702	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, this is, indeed, both of them have issues, they're really up-to-date. As for the funds provided for this year for the HoO or for the Croatian Paralympics Committee for both the Olympics and the Paralympic Games are at this moment, I will not say frozen, but we do not know the actual state of what is happening with the charge of the gambling budget because, as the funds for these purposes of the games for happiness are alimated. We asked the Ministry of Finance for one estimate for the first three, so for the first six months and by the end of the year it will be. Personally, I believe that these funds will be significantly reduced and that there will already be an answer to your question, and the funds will not be spent because they simply will not be. And as for training, we're in constant contact with the National Civil Protection Centre and we've proposed a few measures and I think that right now, in the afternoon, after, after this session, we should actually define who these are. criteria or ways to restart sports training. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199703	Hey, buddy of the Ice creams, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199704	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, I also consider these amendments to the law. The law, necessary that Croatian sport, as part of its national identity, must not be completely silenced because this crisis is going to hit him, so definitely. However, this crisis that follows us has rocked all policies, including sports policies. You've been in sport for a long time, so answer me a question about sports television and losses, so sports television is about 80 million kuna, so who's going to pay, so these losses, and whether these millions of kunas we lost on one such failure, so the project, did they damage Croatian sport and maybe if we had managed it more rationally, maybe we shouldn't even pass this law because we would have enough money for our coaches and other employees sportingly?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199705	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199706	Dear Mr. Representative, sports television is needed for us in the Central State Sport Office in general in sport, Croatian sport is needed. So, yes, to discuss whether we need it and need it, we need it. The fact is, perhaps, in its formation and development, there may have been certain, certain gaps that might have been defined in some other way. Unfortunately, we started a process right after I came to the Secretary of State in the Central State for Sport with cleaning up or solving the problem of sports television, but there was no full moon after I was appointed Secretary of State, these problems with the Coronavirus occurred, and some other priorities happened, but surely as soon as this went away, sports television would be one of the main topics, of course it would be then, that you as the most legislative body of all would be familiar with everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199707	Here you go, pal Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199708	I thank the Honorable President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I absolutely support these measures that you have presented in your presentation that will help and help to regulate competition seasons, but in financial assistance through fees to our trainers. But I am equally aware that our athletes have become a little impatient, especially those professional ones who can understand because we are all in a similar situation ourselves. There are some ideas coming up as soon as possible and on battlefields, terrains, halls, etc. And I am aware that when making decisions like this, it should be wise and wise, and if it comes to it at all, because the health and lives of people are more valuable than any individual and every potential medal. But what I am interested in, and the media is already writing a great deal about it, and is there a solution to maintaining at least those group training on the welfare of our athletes?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199709	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199710	... And here I will repeat that at the end is the final project, i.e. the final hodogram of all the activities that should take place, or any advances that should happen so that this possibility of free training can finally be opened, primarily for athletes located in the open space, rowers, athletes, and, of course, athletes who can perform on a large space of sports activities such as football players where these social distances can be achieved. [[Specially enabled.]] But, of course, in the priority of some kind of focus are top athletes or athletes of the first and second categories, which are about 500, 600 in the Republic of Croatia, and together with the city sports alliances, or the county civil protection headquarters, we're going to figure out which locations these training processes could take place uninterrupted, and I think it's going to start next week.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199711	Thank you. Comrade Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199712	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here I am going to change my replica a little bit since the debate that happened two times ago. I also support these measures and what we're bringing here right now, and I think it's necessary, but I'm going to talk about it on behalf of the club, but I'd like to go back to sports television. So it's very important to stress here that these losses are greater than 80 million kuna, so the losses of 80 million kuna were two years ago. Today it must be over 100 million dynamics that's been going on for the last seven, eight years, and that's the problem. So, sports television needs to, but we need to talk about the concept and how it happened. Mr. Secretary of State that you've been the secretary of state for the past few months doesn't change the fact that your office hasn't solved that problem in the last three years. So, for the first time, we talked about the problem of sports television in this House. In the years when the losses were 20 million kunas and nothing was done, they are now over 100. But I can go on later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199713	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199714	I can't talk exactly about the amount of losses right now, I think they're much smaller, because in the meantime something has been paid out of my own income or how much information I have in this payment or repaying these debts is being helped by the International Olympic Committee, I don't know what decision it is, or what kind of a question it is actually for the HoO, but really sport television or sports TV solution is also required in the context of several ministries. There is also the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education, there is now the Central State Sport Office and we will try to find the best solution for the future, and of course through that solution in the future we will see what happened in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199715	We've come to an end with replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Then we move on to the debate, the first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, two representatives of colleagues of Sladolev and colleagues of Bulj. He's going to be the first colleague of Sladolev's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199716	Thank you, Mr. President. So, no one in this assembly is likely to be against this law, we believe that this law is necessary, that it is good, that legislation must be passed on to postpone competition and that those employees who work in Croatian sport, especially those at lower levels must remain at their jobs because sport is part of national identity, because sport in Croatia is one of the most important activities because it is much wider than what I see in that television. This is also about school sports, recreational sports, and we believe that these changes are the changes. This law is necessary. However, as the virus crisis has dissipated many policies, it has made sport-based policy so far, especially with regard to investment in infrastructure, into sports facilities. And we now come to these laws that we help employees, so the crisis is great every kuna is important, and we've spent irrationally. I've mentioned sports television before in a parliamentary debate, only one piece of information fraternized me that in 2015. HoO for Sports TV paid more for Sports TV than for the most trophy Croatian sport, which is Croatian athletics. So HOO was the most important one failed project than Croatian athlete, the most trophy sport in the Republic of Croatia. And that is just one tiny item as it was related to Croatian sport. In these minutes and a few minutes, I can count three dubious investments in sports infrastructure at local level where we could have had hundreds and hundreds of school halls, and today we don't have them. Here's just one example of the school where I work at Ante Kovačić Elementary School, which has a thousand students in whom I worked in three shifts, does not have an adequate sports hall. And on the other hand, we have the Arena, which we pay millions and millions of kuna, and for that arena, which most of the year stares empty, so we could get hundreds of school halls to practice our children. No one is, for example. He was responding to the Maximian Stadium, so we don't really have a number on how much money was invested in Maximis Stadium. Some claim it's 500, 600, some 700 million kuna, and then you go out and go to a game in Budapest and you see that there's a stadium with 30,000 people, covered, which is four times less expensive than Maximic Stadium. There are countless such examples, so hundreds and hundreds, and we are now coming to the point that we are fighting for sports workers so that they don't lose their jobs. So millions of kunas have been wrongly invested, irrationally, with no cost-benefit analysis, and we come to the point that we now have to save jobs. So we will support this law, but we will always warn of irregularities and that the crisis must not be broken on those small people, in those villages where children have no place to practice. A fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199717	Now he's going to continue his colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199718	Thank you, well-respected secretary with his associate, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, respected athletes who are now following this. The fact is that sport is also, in the crown crisis may be the most hit, mainly by athletes because they have no ability to deal with their life’s call, as well as all people who are engaged in sports, and mostly from our children to amateurs who have practiced it on a daily basis. However, it is likely that ways and models will be found at least to bring basic sports activities to life, mainly for people whose profession it is. We have said everything in the interest of this law, that now the problems within the sport should be overcome, and that should not be debated at all, but we must now hear, i.e. We need to get an analysis of what was going on and what was going on in sports and what sport had done mainly on infrastructure. I'm glad that inside the sports alliances, there will be pay for workers who work and, of course, have to live on something, but when we talk about sports and sports infrastructure, there's a real cry to the sky. In particular in areas, rural areas, 2/3 of Croatia is numerous, numerous local self-governments do not have the opportunity, to have sports facilities, but do not have the possibility simply to have any infrastructure and to allow their children to... They're alive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the demographic problems that happens in the Republic of Croatia is this problem because children are not insured, nor children's kindergartens are able to go younger children, let alone have some sports content. And I'd just remember how many mistakes we made in sports. Remember the handball world championship? Then, pompous Ivo Sanader announced a public private partnership for building pompous halls from Split's arena, from Split's Laura to Arena in Zagreb, Varazdin, Osijek, everyone, Zadar, Višnika, however, all these sports halls became a burden. First of all, local self-governments who couldn't find a solution because they were a guarantee, a guarantee, and also a state, were the guarantees in this building of these empty halls. Because they are not profitable, we have no content, while at the same time children in 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia have absolutely no opportunity to see a hall that has parquetry, which has neat pieces, which has, any way of dealing with sports. Out of this pompnosity, self-revelations within sports, privatizing sports into its political promotion it was brought that what the sport serves is basic, which is that our children are activated, that we start to deal with amateurally because of health, sports, but it's all gone, that money went wrong, it went in a way that this money was misused in personal PRs when large events were organised and now, for example, Split, has the obligation to repay that loan in million amounts. 50m euros to Zagreb, which is also a problem. How's that? Now the question is, we have to draw a line here. Sports TV has been mentioned, of course, that Croatian sports television is needed, mainly to promote smaller sports and support it. But 80 million, I don't understand Matthew here, who runs the Olympic Union. He's never answered until now, which is why 80 million people have that TV. This TV is necessary. No one is against television because it should promote sports that are less popular than football and than other sports that we actively follow. And smaller clubs, smaller environments that need to be promoted and talked about and about the importance of sports, and of course that television must have that. But is 80 million kuna a debt that is justified? However, the president of the Olympic Federation of Pharaohski, because that is how it is set up in the Republic of Croatia, is set up, no one is responsible for it. No one's answering him. But they suffer from local self-government. It costs my son's hero, my son's alkar, paying for small clubs, paying for kids in schools because they don't have, not halls, in the field schools they don't have any means to deal with sports. That they can do sports in the classroom, let alone professional people and staff to be able to play sports. Well, that's not allowed, it happened, harakiri was made because of the political PRs of Ivo Sanader, everyone, I can't now.../incomprehensible/... political harakiri was made to paint, drink champagne, toast and mock Croatian people, but here the triba thanks to the Croatian sport, which is the biggest promoter of the Republic, of the football team, the handball team, all these athletes deserve. However, it is primarily forgotten, and it is primary to invest in our children, in our amateurs, in smaller clubs, in smaller sports, and that every man, every child, has the opportunity to play sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199719	We are going to the second debate of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Domagoj Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199720	I thank the Honorable President of the Assembly. Dear State Secretary with Associates, since the end of January, the World Health Organization has declared the Covid-19 epidemic more known as the Coronary Virus, which has grown into a global pandemic because of the high rate of spread and the large number of unknowns in connection with the virus, which has not bypassed Croatia and we record a number of infected citizens, including the dead. We all found ourselves together in a situation and a sort of isolation that significantly changed the everyday way of life that we're used to. I believe that we all lack the activities we enjoyed most, which are now invaluable, and among them are certainly at the top of the sport, whether as participants or as viewers. But health and human lives should be our first priority. After all, football, basketball, handball and all those other sports will play after we all beat the coronary virus together. Therefore, the rapid reaction of the Civil Protection Staff and all other services that have decided on measures to limit social gatherings is commendable, and so is the maintenance of sporting events as difficult as it is for us. With this decision, sport has found itself in a new situation, it has been hit hard with major problems, not only in the Republic of Croatia, but in the whole world. The world's largest sports collectives have also found themselves in huge troubles. Competitions have been delayed, part will not be held this year, the problem except with these current ones also occurs with new competition seasons in almost all sports and just led by this problem the Central State Sport Office and the Government of the Republic of Croatia wants to meet all sports collectives and introduces two amendments within this law in Articles 64 and 71. The first amendment of the Sport Act refers to the removal of deadlines, to the adoption or adoption of a new system of competition in times of special circumstances as this day is certain, which could not have been predicted and could not have been affected, and threatens primarily the lives and health of people, but also property, environment, economic activity. This bill proposes that the competent authority of the State Sport Administration agree to a new system of competition regardless of the time limit but with the opinion of the Croatian Olympic Committee and the Croatian Paralympics Committee. In order to provide maximum support for the preservation of jobs in sport, which is of great importance for the Republic of Croatia, the second amendment concerns support for the preservation of jobs in legal persons in the sport system. The re-use of funds reserved for competitions suspended under these exceptional circumstances has provided 40 million aid to sports clubs that cannot operate during the Coronation Virus epidemic. With these amendments, we prescribe that the head of the state administration responsible for sport is given the opportunity to grant support for the preservation of jobs in cases where the workers for whom the support is sought are employed for a specified or indefinite period of time, that the funds for the same purpose are not provided from some other public sources and that they meet the conditions for the workplace in accordance with this law and the labour regulations. Current estimates are that we speak about nearly 3,000 workers, sports workers, coaches for whom they will need to provide compensation. So the monthly salary would be 3,250 kuna per full-time employee, i.e. a relatively working part per worker according to the number of hours in part-time. While for the month April and May this maximum amount should be 4,000 kuna per worker or less for this proportion. I believe that none of us expected this kind of development of the competition season, no one can say for sure what awaits us in the future, but while our government, our service, the Civil Protection Staff, our volunteers doctors, the police are struggling with the virus this measure wants to help the system of sports in the Republic, wants to preserve jobs due to this great epidemic of the coronary virus and better prepare for the period after the very epidemic for the benefit of all our athletes, sports workers, coaches, sports collectives in general. According to all this, the HDZ Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Sports Supplements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199721	Thank you. We're going to the GLASs Club now, dear colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199722	Thank you, Mr. President. At first, I would like to announce that the GLAS Club will support this proposal for the Law on Sports Supplements for a wide range of reasons. Of course, the basic reason is that none of us could have predicted such a course of the situation that significantly endangers a whole series of activities, I would say almost anything, and then sport. In that sense, too, there is a need to react, but there is a need of course for others to react. I would like to have such a spott reaction and a quality reaction, and when it comes to the cultural sector, because in this situation a whole series of associations are not only brought to the brink, the edge of survival, and if this social capital infrastructure is destroyed, it will be very, very difficult to restore later. Of course, one of the most important parts of that infrastructure is the human cadre. When it comes to sports associations, it is extremely important that we look at the importance of what they are dealing with, starting with the fact that our schools as part of the curricula of health and physical education have a critical little hour. On the one hand, we warn or at least this is done by health care professionals that children at school are not engaged in health and physical culture, on the other hand, the fact that children are increasingly vulnerable to obesity and are at increased risk. And on the other hand, we're looking at what we're actually doing to enable them to live a better and healthier life than little legs and we see that we're not being honest here, we're doing one thing, and the other is happening. Because if we were honest then this kind of situation in sports wouldn't be where there's nothing behind the facade made up of top athletes and their results really hide everything and everything. And where, along with those who are involved in amateur sports, who are involved in recreation, who invest a lot more energy, who invest far more than what they get for it and those who are employed and those who work as volunteers, who work as part-timers, are also involved by various bandits, mobsters, local sheriffs who try to show their muscles at sports clubs and be better than they really are. Of course, there's room for all kinds of marifetteluks, but some colleagues mentioned that we had a smart investment policy, we wouldn't have had that imbalance of huge assets thrown into the wind in the infrastructure, and on the other hand, the lack of elemental infrastructure for the development of the dispute as a whole. This is a good proposal because it not only includes coaches but also includes other employees in sports associations and sports clubs. Let's not forget that there are people out there with coaches who are very important from gunners to janitors. And if they're not there, if we lose them, who's gonna run the plants? Children who are now at home, who follow the school from home, can't go out on playgrounds or sports grounds because they're closed by the Civil Protection Command decision are closed. So they're narrowed down to the movement radius, completely disabled physical activity, and one day, which I hope will come maybe next month, the kids will come out, they'll come back to their sports and recreation clubs where they were and there's no better way. Of course, I am going back to culture, with a culture that the nation that is now squeezed into four walls into a very, very narrow space of action is actually being repurchased to be mentally and physically restored rather than through these two segments, a cultural offer or consumption of culture and on the other hand recreation and sport. Some people realize how important it is, and even these circumstances at home practice, maintain their condition, but of course it is not the solution. I will remind you of one thing very important that we forget, annually with two Chinese universities in Croatia comes out about 200 or slightly more graduate kinesiologists. It's extremely difficult to hire a profession, very, very few of them manage to enter schools and it's a public secret, if you're not good with the mayor, if you don't have a direct connection to him because he's the head of the parade when it comes to sports departments, when it comes to setting up a principal, there's no way to get into school, and you can only enter if one of the existing health and physical culture teachers retires. On average, more than a hundred people appear in one competition. So, what do they have left? It remains for them to work in fitness clubs to work as sports recreation managers for children, to work at clubs as coaches and then, of course, clubs don't have a lot of resources, they can accept them on some occasional, temporary contract, give them very small fees because of the membership fee and the sponsor's income, they don't have much money, and they're doomed to it. These young people who have been educated to be, many of them finish and coaching schools about 20 to 30 of them finish coaching school, these people are on wind. On the one hand, we need them terribly because there is no healthy nation without them, and on the other hand they are condemned to very small incomes, to gain. But, of course, whoever goes into the coaching waters, regardless of it, radio kindergarten kids, and to those who work with top athletes first and basic motives is always love because few of them get to the point where they can talk about some big money for their engagement. Let's not forget that. So these are hard employees and when they find a job, they find it temporary, on a certain, rare basis. These measures proposed by this law allow us not to forget them, to not throw them on the sidelines, to allow them to stay where they are or to allow them to stay where they are and to guarantee that the infrastructure of sports alliances and sports clubs will wait for children and young people to return to clubs. What I find incomprehensible is this controversy about training in individual sports. The other day, at the press of the National Staff, the journalist of the event asked the main Croatian epidemiologist, Mr. Capak, and the letter proposal that came from the HOO to what he replied, the headquarters never banned individual trainings, so that the Hoo could reach the written position of headquarters that this was not allowed until further notice. Guys, why are we playing with this? In most individual sports, there is no personal contact between trainers and athletes or anyone who trains, so there is no risk, if you want from water sports, athletics and others. The biggest training, the touch is actually in martial arts if the coach is his sparring partner, and he can do without it, they're smart enough to be safe. Why don't we just let them? I hope that it will be among the first to open space because knowing some of these athletes I know how difficult they are to put up with this situation where they can't train and the fact that there won't be any more sports competitions for a while, that all international sports events including the Olympic Games have been delayed and that they won't be in danger that they may already have to perform in September on major international competitions or competitions, and they weren't ready because they'll probably be delayed, nothing helps. These are people who have to have constant sports preparedness. In that sense, I would like the headquarters a little bit when this is already being played in making such decisions to have one more concrete but more correct approach to weaken certain segments. Of course not everything and not for a long time yet, but where we can allow people to stay on their feet. Imagine the top athlete who spent three to four hours in training, leading training, who can't do it now. After 10 days he has been kicked out of shape, and on the other hand he asks his own identity if anyone should, when he returns to the competition, to what his career is at all, let's not let those people whose sport is everything, because because of the top sport they couldn't even finish school, they don't have time for cinemas, theaters or other activities to destroy them and to deny it. I repeat, the Voice Club will support your law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199723	Thank you. So now we're going to discuss HDS, HSLS and HDSSB. Dear colleague Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199724	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with a deputy, colleagues and colleagues this is a time when things must be resolved quickly and spotlessly and I am glad to recognize this problem in sport, in preserving these jobs as well as all predecessors say, it is very important to preserve and have prepared when the crisis ends, when life is normalized, we hope that this will be possible as soon as possible, that children and young people around Croatia will have a place to come and have a coma. If jobs were lost, if these people who are in clubs, in communities, in alliances, in various sports associations would disappear, there would be a big, huge problem later, and therefore we welcome as a club this proposal to amend and supplement the law and, of course, we will support the same. For many years we have also talked about rural areas of Croatia, about the diversity of Croatia in certain parts, and then I will tell a few of my experiences here since I have been at the head of a local club, the Football Club Križevci, since I have been a local leader for many years and have been very actively involved in the community of sports associations. I ask the question here, will such aid also apply to the communities of sports associations that are founders of local self-government if there are funding disorders and inability to finance by local self-government, so to communities? Because what my experience has taught me, if we want children and young people to have in sports, we have to secure two things. We need to secure the terrain, the space, the hall, the playground, and we need to secure the professional staff of the coach, the leader. If we have these two things, then it is no problem to involve a large number of children and young people in sports. We also in this direction in the Križevci have always thought and employed little by little, coaches of school leaders of various sports and they act and therefore work not at clubs but at community sports associations of the town of Križevci, so we would also pray that there is a mind when it comes not given God by the moment may not be necessary, perhaps the city will manage to get through this situation alone. But here I would also like to mention an organization in sport which is quiet, step by step, child by child back 25 years crossed the Croatian borders, and it came from Croatia, it came from a young man from Split from Mr. Marić Zdravko, who managed to do a phenomenal thing by starting youth sports games. So, in 25 years on average, it was through sports games of young people about 200,000 children, self-financed from sponsor donations, these days we have the opportunity to watch a commercial with the captain of our football team, Luka Modric, where he advertises as ambassador of this youth sports game. They, of course, have a large number of employees in the system because they have to work these programmes throughout Croatia, so here's the same question. If they will also show up if such associations will have the right to use these funds, I say, if you come into such a crisis situation that they need it because I think it is absolutely necessary if it comes to these situations because children who are involved, and include themselves, in all parts of the Republic of Croatia, from cities, municipalities, schools, everything is connected in one system, very actively working on it, very actively working on the separation of children from phones, from computers, in sports, purely amateur and everything is free of charge and everything is free of charge for children. So, they don't have any children's expenditure, everything's been done in a way that children have the opportunity to play sports through 10 sports disciplines and that eventually end up in a final in Split on a programme of a few days, also in the finale of these games, everything is also free. So, they're not a classic club, they're not classic to say sports group in that sense, so I'm talking about them here and I'd like to ask that here's the state office has one such association in mind sportingly and that if there's going to be a situation that they have to run, reach for such measures to get into the program and be also in that programme. Here, with these few remarks, I congratulate, of course, on the preparation of such a proposal to amend the law, to recognise the problem, as another proof that both the State Office for Sport and Resort Authorities and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are considering this and that in this crisis, a step by step solves the focal points that are emerging, with these messages our club will support these amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199725	Now we're going to the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the esteemed colleague of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199726	I would like to thank the Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State and Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. So, in the light of all these measures, we have also come to various sports associations which are also directly made by civil headquarters decisions practically forbidden their work and that we are not only talking about work but also about the competition system. And the first part of these amendments applies to competition systems that can be adjusted regardless of some deadlines that exist to be delegated or delegated to the National Sports Alliance with the opinion of the Olympic Committee, the Olympic Committee. What's the other thing is that this is where we predicted these, these measures to help. I'm just wondering if, here, it's not settled about the tax administration, so it's the same thing that's worth talking about, about the lengths of support, the amounts, everything, and they're supposed to be able to apply to the IRS to get rid of the contributions and taxes on those same salaries. What is also the question, therefore, is that these are workers who have to be on and on, or on indefinitely, so there are no fees or contracts, however, that they are not, of course, insured from other public sources, so there is no duplication, it is okay and that they meet the conditions for the workplace, and now I am not too clear what is there with accompanying staff in certain collectives from some administrators, to say those sports associations that have some catering activities and waiters, etc. in theirs, whether they are covered by this or not, it is also probably this administrative and auxiliary staff that, and these now through, through the sports section will probably be covered by em due to catering activity, and em because they work as part of sports associations. What's been said here before, what needs to really be brought into line with headquarters, with the civilian headquarters, is that we can have up to five people today, but not if it's sport, if I get it right. So we can have a reunion on the street of up to five people, but not if we're engaged in sports. Now, which is a sport, it doesn't matter. Some sports are contact sports and there is a far greater possibility of contagion, and some sports are again as we had an example of rowing our famous Olympics are facing each other, they have no team character, they don't change, they don't have contacts with anymore, they're just two and they're facing each other as if they're living from one household, and I think they should clearly make that distinction and allow those who, really who are individual sports or sports like this, are less than 5 people, but that and they're constantly working together in a long time, period, so if they're two regardless of the pairs or whatever or some other same sports to allow them to normally train themselves, I mean that up to 5 people can get together because this is how it turns out that if we take us 5 and we sit out 4, we sit outside, we can do whatever, but if we're dealing with some sports then we're breaking measures, if it're the same 4 people. This is also an opportunity to make an asset, to try to do all the things we do now as fast as we can and do some digitizations that we should and could, and obviously and could, now this has forced us to change, so that we can slowly use this time for the way the system and the financing of sports, first of all it applies to the units of local self-government to enable them to have one system of chieftains or vouchers that everyone would get for their child who would then bring it to a particular club. Now, or so far, they have been financed by certain categories, successes, first, second, third, so they have received, received funds, of course it refers primarily to the successes at senior levels which are more or less amateur or through some scholarships, membership fees, etc. Funded, but it was their main part regardless of having 30 children in youth programs or 300 and then some clubs are being financed, and it now came from membership fees and organized. By doing so, if we were to go through these chieftains or vouchers we would actually get that it is an open market and that the quality, the attractiveness of sport, that all clubs, coaches look for children and by schools and organise presentations of their sports and ways of training so that they would always attract as many children as possible because as much income as possible to them as possible because they are not dependent on some senior success that should be valorised, but should come later. That would pull me back and I believe even more kids in sports. What is the main purpose and purpose of this whole thing? Health and all that it brings. The second is the promotion of Croatia, sports successes, professional athletes it is a side product to say it is what can happen to us, thank God, but the main goal is to activate more children into some sporting activity and for health and for mental development, mental development, etc., etc., preparing as best for life and everything like that. And so now let's take advantage of what the opportunity in trouble would say, let's take advantage of this, try to make a new system that will be based precisely on members, the number of club members, or just on children as the biggest source of funding, and accordingly should provide protection mechanisms, monitoring that they are mandatory to do this, I as a former athlete remember, and when you wanted to come to train somewhere you couldn't just come in, testing different things, so after every three to six months, they followed you, recorded your abilities physically, technically how many requirements you've had in a certain time, your development, height, growth, weight, so everything was taken into account. And that base, once we've established that it's a two-year commitment, through a systematic review of another one to monitor it, the progress of children, that if someone gives up that they can't always get a head start based on the one that gave up, especially if they went and took that voucher somewhere else monthly. So the vouchers confirm that the child continues to train and this is also confirmed through the progress of their basic parameters, of course with the protection of all personal data, privacy and everything else, that it is absolutely initiated. In this way we would force and achieve what is really as many children as possible to be involved, to seek as many children as possible, to absolutely finance based on it, plus, of course, senior success. I think that's the key for the state to ensure the right to sport as a basic elemental right and to ensure that all other infrastructure conditions, together with units of local self-government, are made available to all those who have a certain number of children. We now have situations where some clubs are founded, so categorizations, so they must be at least 3 years members of the community, and then they have the right to certain terms, and they usually get dates and people are usually going there, recreationally playing some B league, and they have recreational fun, neither children, nor anything, and they take some terms or by schools or in some construction units by local self-government units. So, basically, I'm not saying, but we also need recreational sports to encourage, we need to know what our priorities are, our priorities must be children. From that we start the number of involving senior results and then the recreation that should absolutely be represented, and it also means a lot to health. So let's take a shot at this now opportunity when everything stands that for the next so-called so-called. a season or a year, so let's do two years of good work on these new paradigms because by now we certainly have what we would say is far greater success than what someone would give us in view of the systems we have. That means we're a great pool of quality and genetic if you want, a genetic pool, but above all, conditions and people who know what to do and all they need is to give them more space and even more infrastructure and more children to come. Because you need to know that the popularity and promotion of a particular sport is a lot, we have a handball strong because we have continuous results and then whenever there is a competition you come to a children's playground, and you see a child not playing football but playing handball. And then that's where the interest starts to come into the clubs, and that's why we're left with it. We missed basketball here after one famous result we didn't have anything and unfortunately she doesn't get that extra impulse because it's not popular, we don't have that result that would popularize it at the media level of everyday, and that's why we need this system to solve it in another way. Thank you, of course, the HNS Club will support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199727	We are now going to the club of representatives of the Labour Party and solidarity and independent representatives, the respected colleague Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199728	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected sports workers, state secretary, today we're talking about sports, the crisis that brought the coronary virus into sport today, and everywhere in all the activities of the state and the world, what can I say about sports. And I used to play sports, so today I'm always with sports, I know a lot of good sports, I know what was done in sports and how it worked. To play sports every young child of 6 years, 7 tries to compete and tries to show their physical abilities in one direction and another, the third direction in which he feels capable. As far as we know about 120,000 athletes and children are concerned, and this is probably a number of amateurs, where I have been, every day going to the fields, training, getting up, in the mud, in the rain, in the snow, by all means, in the heat, these children are simply exposed to one effort talking about children who started in some of the professional clubs or other leagues or third to try to prove themselves, talking about football, and so it's probably in athletics, basketball, volleyball, handball and all the other sports. Historically we know that sport is an important activity for the state, for the world and for everything. It's been known from time to time that sport has been involved, we know that we've had very big athletes in our time. Here last year we had in Russia, because we were others in the world in football and we can't say that in sports everything wasn't good and it wasn't good and it worked, that certain people who loved sports, the truth gave themselves and their life for those kids. Sports usually become big people, help, give their money, promote the state, coaches too. We had two celebrities, we had Chira, we had the Dalic who made the top results, we had the water polo, we had the volleyball, we had the handball, and so on. So all these people gave something for sport, but what's the life of one athlete, one kid who's going to work on it? Not everyone succeeded, of course, 1,000 of them dreamt of success, of course they couldn't, of course, but some of them weren't physically well-prepared, some of them had a hand that they took and spent and raised, and it was admitted by athletes that some people helped and they became big, and that's very important who these people who recognize athletes are, how honest they work with these athletes. What do I blame the football league for? Why are athletes craftsmen, why one of the 18 years is a craftsman, who has no idea of the craftsmanship, who doesn't know, who came, dad brought him to practice, achieved some result, didn't go to sports, played in the first lick, and what's going on, that same craftsman who didn't, that club owner or club paid that boy off he's on top of coming. His poor parents, here comes the execution, the state shuts up, the football alliance shuts up. I wonder why this can happen in the Croatian state? There are three or four countries in Europe, as far as I know. So I'm asking you to change it into law can't a kid or a football player be a craftsman. A football player can be on the city's budget, local self-government, and they can be responsible for giving it and everything. That's what's ugly in sports, that's what those young children, who stay in Croatia, who are disappointed in the system, are disappointed in sports. I've got a lot of guys like that. We just watch Blue, Rocket and that team, I congratulate them, and they promote us, and what about those where they are not, who takes care of them. We know how much in sports the boys have failed, not by their own guilt, not by their lack of recognition of sports. Here's an example I'll put in Split, you very well need to know 100 young people didn't get paid and are only at the Split football club. Who's taking care of them? Provedly, the DORH did the investigation, he had the money, he didn't transfer that kid's money, the kids left, the club owner has the money, he didn't pay for it. Of course, it's all in the courts, the courts are gonna be in court for the next 10 years, their parents, their children are in the gentlemen's office. It's a question of sports, and today, this law that we're making should certainly be supported. But gentlemen, you who are in sports, you who run clubs must be honorable people, taking care of these young people is no wonder why youth leaves us. We don't have any youth in Slavonia. We can't have half the village. Why gentlemen? Well, because individuals, if we remember the Stone of Ingrad, the Great, the Suhopolje and those kind of clubs that have disappeared from the scene that individuals are like today, the wicked people, the wicked people, the gentlemen can't skip what we can't. We must take care and be, be and give our youth safety in order to stay in this country. He needs you who's committed a crime, and he's got a lot of 'em going on and on and on. You're suing him today, you can't get court in 10 years. What does that look like? We had Maksimir built it gave us 300, 500 million to tear down, shame. Well, it's a shame to talk about such things that we've committed such crimes in this country. It's history, but today it can't happen, it can't destroy our youth, sport is honorable, kids want to train, give them amateur sports. It's very important to have amateur sports, because they're developing there, usually athletes are decent people, kids do not go to crime, they don't go to drugs, they don't go to other things. We need to recognize. We here who are in the assembly, our government that I personally trust now, need to make order everywhere. There's a line to be made everywhere, gentlemen. I'm an entrepreneur, I know those who weren't in line who became quick millionaires, today they're either on a beggar's stick, or they're not doing business with these companies, but they have money, they're not being followed by money. Take a look at Split and some clubs that didn't pay for those kids, so let the football alliance pay for those kids so they can sue and let a club like that compete in the league if they're not paid for. Of course, there's been a fraud, so sign, and we'll pay, so that's possible. Gentlemen, these are great things, this must not happen in a democratic world, criminals must not walk proudly with other people's money in their pocket and in this country. I support sport and I want the sport to succeed and in sport should give everything and this money that Croatian citizens and Croatian Government will separate for a director who works in football clubs, of course they're not against it but gentlemen back to one row, work and then we'll have everything we had. Of course, we have a good team, we have good players, we have good people, and we have people who ran HNS, from Markovic, and also from Novoselc, who led a young team who was a great man, whom I know, when he was the director of that team, so we have today and Shuker, they have made great results, but gentlemen the result is the greatest when our youth is satisfied. That's the result, and this is all gone and stopped. In order to keep our young people safe, we need to take care of every lip that's given in sports and that can't be in other people's pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199729	We are now going to the SDP Representatives' Club, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199730	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I am, at the beginning of my debate, going to say that the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support this, this law, and we believe that this is a timely response to the situation in which the whole country has been found. So, after these health and economic problems have been solved, sport has come to order very quickly and what we want to highlight in this law, so let's say both of us are in terms of measures that change these changes, and we think that both of them are important, so we have this one that is the same economic character, let's say that it provides salaries to a number of people who, who work in our clubs and who allow these clubs to function both in the time of competition and out of competition, and it's certainly good that these clubs are preserved, that their activities continue when this crisis goes by and because of this crisis, and the other part is this legal aspect and that, we're talking a lot about these last days, so all the measures that the government and the headquarters are taking, so all of what we're doing, and it's also in times of crisis, regardless of why the crisis doesn't mean that we don't need to keep the law and regulations, and we't have to legalize the competition, and we't do this new framework, and we't have to be able to be able to be able to do this, and to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do this new framework to do this, to do this, to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do this, to do this, to do this, to get to be able to be able to start to get to get to start to get to do this new, to get to get to get into the law, to get to get into the law, to get into the law, to get into the law, to get into the law, to get into the law, to get into the law, to get into the law, to get into the law, to get into the law, to get into the law, to do, to get into the law, to get into the law, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to get into the law, to get into the law, to get into the law, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to get this And I wouldn't be spreading the subject today, many times we're talking about sports in this high house and we have something to say and, and that's one of the things we should always focus on. So, let's say, I'm not happy here that after the last amendments to the Rules of Procedure we no longer discuss at plenary sessions in this high house, let's say the report, about the work of the HoO, I think it was a good practice and that we had a chance to say a lot about sports problems at the time. Unfortunately, it's removed from the debate here although there's a business opportunity for it to come here, usually on committees it doesn't pass. I hope it changes in the future. And I think one of the burning problems of Croatian sports today, which should be solved as soon as possible, is funding in sport. So, we today, no one in the Republic of Croatia can say how much money goes to Croatian sport. So these are all some kind of estimates based on, on some indicators, we know how it's funded, it's from games of chance. The other thing is local cities and municipalities, so let's also have utility companies, so advertising from public companies, etc., but nobody knows how much of that money and basically money there is in sport enough, but when we look at every segment of sport, then it's missing and it's always chronically missing. And if we knew exactly and had control over those means that go through the HoO is the purest image. So, here we see how much of the gambling budget, that own part, but stay under the radar and they, they, those cities and municipalities that finance clubs in their midst because they have to finance them so that people can normally be amaterically engaged in sports, but if they had one control, and that the state knows exactly where they're going, then maybe even in these crises they could react even better and be more willing and tackle that, that problem. So this secretary of state, here's an appeal to you even though we are at the end of the term, this should make an effort to control the financing of sports, and I think it's in the interest of everyone, and the most athletes who act under these circumstances. I will once again join all of my colleagues who have said before me, so now that we're solving, let's say, the problem of the problem that encountered us in this crisis and the first problem is this, the legalization of further competition and the financing of sports workers. I think the next problem should be, and that's what you're seeing in what you've answered through the replicas now, and that's to enable training to top athletes to individuals, or to those who can do it for 2 reasons. One is, and so is the stage of preparation because if we continue the competition in a month, two, three, they must be in some form and readyness. So, this break will require some preparation, and we can't have them back in the form they were in, so we can't now who in some other activities is a 1.5-year-old, so people go back to work and the tracks are where they were before stopping, the athletes have it more complicated. So someone who hasn't been training for a month, two days, and he's a top athlete, he needs some preparation code is half season to come back and that's why it needs to be possible to continue training where possible, and the other thing is that psychological problem. So we meet these days that people who are just locked up in the house have not given up, but are forced to give up their previous activities, so socializing, going, I don't know, shopping, free movement, and come into certain psychological problems. Now you can think that some top athletes who are basically a lifetime of sports, training, training from small legs, when they stop training and, with what they are training, are still locked up in the house, so that except for these health and preparation problems has a psychological impact on, on, on athletes 100%, and that time will show and therefore should be done in this second step, so that as soon as possible to continue treatment, but also to see maybe in this with, with a profession, whether it will need to provide that psychological help that is caused by this whole situation. Anyway, here's the thing. I talked through the lines a little bit about sports TV. I spoke a lot in this high house, so even when we warned in 2014 and '15. to the problems of financial losses, there we were representatives, who we warned about, accused of being at the top of the HoO that basically we are in our debate bringing sports television into losses and that we are mined, so here for 3 years now there is no debate in this high home on sports television, and neither in the public is saying anything, it is still in the problems and it should, in which way and how to reform it needs to be seen, but it is not good, why we talked about it, it is not good because the leadership of the Olympic Committee is its guarantees and loans that have been raised and crashed into this failed project de facto made a loss at the level of the one-year budget of the Olympic Committee. And it can be said that it endangers the future of Croatian sport, endangers the laws that we currently have and according to the arrangements we currently have. And they mention these own funds that are 8 to 10% sometimes and less of the overall budget of the Olympic Committee, and the debts are the entire budget. Therefore, they cannot recover it from their own resources. If this eventually falls on the burden of the state and the government takes on itself or through several ministries that you have said and solved these losses, okay, if we agree to do so, but it must be known that some kind of crazy decision has led to this situation that would not have happened in the future because it is the easiest thing for public money to do some kind of failed project and knowing that I'm going to bang 8, 9, 10 years at the end of the day the state will pay everything, or in this case the athletes who need that money. And we need to talk about it, and that's one problem that will come up for discussion very soon. Here, so much for me, mostly once again, the SDP Club supports these changes, and we hope that very soon we will discuss these other steps that need to be discussed in this high home, and I also support that perhaps in culture we should start talking soon and I expect that the government will also be in order and I have no doubt that Father, but here I hope as soon as possible, but it's all going in some order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199731	We are now going to the last debate of the club is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Glasovic and Hasanbegovic. Dear colleague Zekanovic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199732	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable State Secretary with an associate, Croatia has been blocked almost for almost a month, and the sport is not working at all, and I will stress immediately that the Croatian Sovereigns' Club and I will personally support these measures because we believe it is necessary to preserve every job, as well as jobs that are related to sports associations or sports. It also means places of coach and professional staff to be preserved by this bill. But when we talk about sports here, even though the weather is difficult, we have to take advantage of the opportunity and point to other problems related to sport. My colleagues pointed out before me, and I'm going to point out the same thing, but at first I'd say the main thought. That's what I told Minister Berosha yesterday. We want to hear from you a plan concrete, dynamic plan to open or start sports in Croatia. People are terrified, not all of them, some of them are a little stronger in their heads and braver so they don't understand this situation so apocalyptic, but because of the constant pumping through the media, because of the constant apocalyptic news, because of the constant listing of the dead, the sick millions of Croats and Croats today are in mortal fear and they need little optimism. I want to hear from you or from your office that tomorrow a dynamic plan is drawn up when any sport will open or run. I'm not here, I've listened to most colleagues, I haven't heard much, but here I am now going to say what can be done, and that's what Slovenians do, the Austrians do. The Austrians are in a better position than we are, pardoning the worse epidemiological, epidemiological worse. They open golf, they open tennis, for example. Why don't we, and we're a country where really thousands of people deal, for example. tennis especially in the coastal part of Croatia and Zagreb, why don't we start these two sports. These are individual sports where players are ten feet away from each other and that could really start tomorrow. Let's have some good news, let's go on TV and see, let's play a match, some tournament to make it so that some people, that people just come to themselves a little bit. We're just standing there like we're watered. So there's not one sport because there isn't one. So we can't have solidarity that way, if the tennis players can play and do their sport let's let them know, if the bottles can do it, let's let them, if they can badminton, I don't know now what sports there are, let's make it possible for them. If, for example, some group sports like football or basketball where one of those tight contacts between players can't be okay, but we don't have to have solidarity now in a way to ban everything. It's like solidarity to you okay, there won't be public gatherings, and then we won't have a mass where social distance could be made. So let's see what he can do. I'm glad to see you, too. Today in Croatia factories work, and there is no social distance, but it is good to work. Here I got yesterday, so when I talked about it in the assembly, I got 5.6 people working in factories of several hundred workers without social distance, but nobody got sick because we actually fell to the most important scale, all of us, not just Beroš or Bozinović, which is the protection of the elderly in homes for the elderly and the powerless. Because we left the coronary virus in eight homes as long as I have the records, in eight homes. So, if I can build sites, I can factories, let's let the Croatian Parliament let people do sports. And related to this because it's very connected, here's yesterday Minister Beros said ok, it's a wrong measure we'll correct it, I don't know if it's formally fixed today, sports fishing. So, I'm gonna go to Sibenik tomorrow and I can walk or sit on the shore and watch the sea, and if I take the fishing stick in my hand, I'm in violation. I don't know anyone from the civilian headquarters at the civil protection headquarters, and they're going to sanction me because I'm fishing for fish, even though I have a license for sports fishing. Guys, you're executive, these mistakes need to be corrected today, right now, right now. And now I'm going to use a minute, two, and say the problems that plague Croatian sport, but it's important to emphasize. So, many Croatian athletes due to the poor economic situation in the country are generally reported on such a formal basis for 4 hours you know, he logs in for 4 hours, gets there 1,700,00 – 2,000,00 kn, now I don't even know how specific it is for the minimal and, and even no money for that, and then puts someone in the same category who deals with sports that can't bring him financial earnings and anyone else. I think there should be some sort of measure, some kind of sports craft, something where a athlete will be able to pay a lump sum and have all the contributions, have insurance. I know a few examples where people got hurt in sports competitions, because they don't pay contributions, they don't have health insurance, and then they smuggle on their brother's, cousin's or their sports colleague's health card. So we have to invent a model because simply if the club doesn't have the money, and the sport, we'll agree, is extremely important to us and one of the most important promoters of our country. Sport is one of the most important promoters of the Croatian state. Then let's make it easy for these people that I have to make more and I'll mention this, so some people won't be right. We do, we talk about sports associations, the association means. We also have those other associations that are not sportsmen, and they're not really promoters of our country and our people, our culture, our traditions, our history, or any modern achievement. Do these associations, and they recognize themselves now, know which, I mean, do they bear the burden of this crisis? Well, they don't. I haven't heard from the state budget all these associations that have been heavily funded yet, and maybe they're getting ready for what measure, to cut these associations' money, and to ask me, they wouldn't get any lip, never, let alone, let alone in these times of crisis. And we continue to have, unfortunately, in sports that kind of self-employment, everyone opens up the association in such a hurry, and then sportingly and gets money from local self-government, so now there should be a little review, see which associations really exist, that do their jobs, that don't work. And now one small thing, but quite important about the funding of associations. In Western European countries, I suppose you know, bookies are obliged to finance from their transport sport, especially those sports that put in their offer. Why don't we have that in the Republic of Croatia? So, it's a simple thing, it's solved that every bookie that puts into a sport offer, means some sport, any football, basketball, whatever, has to finance in part, one, we'll settle 2%, 3%, 1%, no matter, finance sport. It's a practice in Western Europe. It is a practice in the EU, in the Republic of Croatia. What makes betting banks that mass-infect today a young population where millions of kunas are left today and destroy families would not at least give part of their profits to what they are paralysing, what do they live on? And that's sports. Here, write this down, please talk about this, about this topic when this session is over and do something about it. I'll conclude, here I am as a representative at HS, and that's the wish of a number of athletes who contacted me today before this session, people want a dynamic plan, they want to hear what sport they're going to play, and I said yesterday to Minister Beros to tell us when they're going to start school so that people know what they're waiting for, until they wait, that's what other countries are doing, we can also do and start individual sports that can start. Here's what I've set out to do, for example. The bottle and let it be there is tennis, tennis is certainly a sport that could be put on tomorrow or allow it to go with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199733	Now we've come to the end of the debate by clubs, so we're going to individual debates, there's 10 of them, the first one's for a respected colleague, Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199734	Thank you very much. What I also said on behalf of the club is that this law contributes to this crisis in solving people who work in sports alliances, exclusively in sports alliances, and a number of sports alliances are doing their probably job best, and some are even bloodsuckers of smaller sports clubs, so I can only say that this is a huge problem not only elite athletes, elite alliances, this is the problem of smaller sports amateurs these clubs where they also need people who are professional and who are paid. Unfortunately, that's what I said in this very debate on behalf of the club that there is no such thing as, in 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia, there is no organised system sport engagement of all people to allow, all, mainly professional people within these clubs, sports, local alliances, smaller municipalities, sports communities, simply no financial opportunity, and here everything comes down to sports alliances. There's money, money's leaking through the fingers, we mentioned sports television against which I have nothing, though, I'd like to talk a lot more, for example. About a phenomenon like football club Sinj, my football players who won a bunch of rugby Sinj last year, people who do huge jobs, I'd like to hear more talk about these people who work in clubs, but from the heart that time out, like. Ivica Vucilo, Vuko who doesn't know him, I'll mention which of these rugby clubs you and all those inside the club who did a huge job to get as many young people involved in football as possible. We have no news of such people and do not encourage such people but simply fight in the way they fight, and hundreds of young children are involved in that club. But it's not talked about, and these people are not encouraged, and not even those sports collectives are encouraged, but alliances are paralysed by numerous memberships, payments, this one, this one, these small clubs, they're not even small, my blue Alkar club, basketball club is a big club about basketball, a big club no matter what my Sinj and Cetinski have, it's not even that small, but it's so neglected, but they paralyze these alliances. So we can't just rely on support, alliances. Even the Olympic alliance which is not, athletes play a big role in the promotion of the Republic of Croatia, sport as sport has a significant role in people's health. However, we try to do everything to make it possible from local small municipalities that each child has at least a somewhat equal opportunity in sports. You can tell me that certain schools, certain areas, people don't have, children don't have basic devices, basic tools to deal with anything. They just don't have that option. And that's one of the reasons, let's look ahead from this crisis, one of the reasons why young people moved out. They were not able to enable their children to play sports, nor did they have kindergarten, nor did they have organised transportation, this public transport organized and, of course, that these places were evicted. So we can't just base ourselves on the coronary virus right now, negative information about everything that's going on, the corona, of course, we have to keep social distance, but now the prisic, we have to parasitize in sport casserole. Well, I just mentioned a public private partnership about sports halls that were built for the handball world championship. Thanks to the handballers, thank you to the football players but it took so much infrastructure and so much money. Croatia, billions of kuna, will not be paid annually, we are still paying for those objects that are not, which are not in use enough. I don't know if two, three times are full two, three times a year, and billions of kunas we have to maintain, only maintenance, credit obligations, state guarantees, guarantees of local self-government. Only as long as Split hangs at the hall in Lora I mentioned, a Zagreb problem, the problem of other Zadarian, the problem of other halls. That's billions of kuna. These are the epic scales of the impact on Croatian sport which returns a lot to Croatia. And we can't observe the same with Zagreb sports, for example. in Lika, Dalmatinska Zagora in those places where there is no possibility, there are no places in Slavonia in some places I do not know in Gorski Kotar. We simply try to promote these areas, these areas and these sports collectives to invest, otherwise we will not have any athletes in these areas but no one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199735	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is a colleague of Sladolev's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199736	Thank you, Mr. President. So, dear fellow Bull, you were talking about rural problems, and I believe that's where the situation is bad. However, as far as sports facilities are concerned, the City of Zagreb is not a much better situation. The example is Ante Kovačić Elementary School, which has 1.00 students, where parents have written hundreds and hundreds of petitions for the school hall, where children have no place to practice but practice in the halls or when there is a nice time outside, and on the other hand in the City of Zagreb is invested in some suspicious projects. And what is a special problem is that in the City of Zagreb when investing in sports facilities prices are multiplely higher. So setting up an artificial grass at a low-level football club costs about 500 to millions of kunas, 500,000 to millions of kunas. So that's one problem, too. And when you invest in sports facilities that prices are 3 times bigger than usual. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199737	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199738	Well that fellow Sladolev, it is strange that it is in Zagreb, but it is exceptional in Zagreb, but it is down to it and it is sad, but in Dalmatia Zagora, Lica, Gorski Kotar, it is a rule. Well, I'll just mention how much, say, my Son's potential. We have a hypodrom, the most beautiful pituitary in the south, in Croatia. What's the potential of that pituitary? Blue Alka, you all come to Sinjska Alka, horse sport, horse riding, absolutely nothing sports alliance,.../incomprehensible/... the alliance does not invest in this absolutely, and this is a beautiful area. We have a branded Sinjska Alka, we have horses, we have a dick that's interested, we have a sports hypodrom, we have to get close to Split, we have to have the strongest, most elite competitions, but it doesn't invest anything sports alliance because they don't care, they don't care what it helps. The only thing that comes lipo is to paint there with the Knights' Alkar society, their members that's important, and investment in sports and The potentials.../incomprehensible/... they don't care. [[Thank you, colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199739	Thanks, buddy, and the lamb nothing?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199740	I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199741	And lambs nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199742	All right, lambs mixed already.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199743	Comrade Pranic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199744	Thank you, Mr. President. I absolutely agree with you fellow Bulj that Croatia is at least investing in sports of all EU members and many results, sports results are a matter of chance, not a matter of orderly system. On average, Member States invest EUR 100 per capita if we look at the accumulated investment. For example, Hungary 150 euros per capita of investment from the central state and units of local and regional self-government. Do you know where Croatia is? EUR 13 per capita, even Bulgaria is ahead of us at the beginning. Shamefully, we are at the beginning and at least invest in the development of sports, amateur sports and what the office is investing in, let the State Sport Office publish in public sometimes how and to whom certain projects are given to local self-government units to come out once a rank list of system points. In particular, we always apply to the competition, we never get anything, but it doesn't matter what we don't get, we never see why anyone got it. according to the size of the score sheet and category, non-transparent. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199745	Thank you, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199746	Thank you very much. So colleague Pranic, sport, sports activities, amateur sport, student sport to enable it is the key meaning of sports alliances and it should be the key to every Croatian government. However, many people from Vrgorec, from Sinj, moved out because they had no opportunities for their children not to engage in sports, had no possibility of kindergarten, had no opportunity. Just before I mentioned the potentials that Vrgorac has, but I mentioned, let's say, my Sinj, and let's say, that hypodrom, I mentioned football players. I mean, they're phenomena. What we have, no one has to develop not only sports but also revenue revenues based on, say, a sonic hypodromic, but no one invests in it, only individuals who have their horses deal with it, but it's minimal. No one cares if we take advantage of those potentials. It's just who's gonna have what. A tie and a party card to get the funds. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199747	Thank you. We're going to the 2nd debate, dear colleague Barisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199748	Thank you, Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. So here we are at a time when the world is facing a global crisis due to a health cause, and this crisis has created many sectoral crises, so it has created, therefore, a crisis and in sport, because sport as a process, so it has its own subprocesses and that it is based on training, on competition, on professional work, based on the public, is based on many other expressions, or on accompanying industries, it is currently hyberizing, so it stands. Perhaps even some might say that it is failing because here is what is said here, and I will also point out that it would be good for the current processes under the supervision of the epidemiologist, or the National Civil Protection Centre to be launched, to be realized and that sport in that part is a measure that you are, and thank you for that on behalf of all athletes, so that which you and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have determined, or which will, of course, be accepted here in HS, it will allow for professional, administrative, technical, trainers, and even athletes, to have their incomes, salaries for the 3rd, 4th, 5th month, but actually not have anything to do. So they need jobs, in any way, so they can be organised and then they need to be prepared, but they can't be just theoretical, those in sports must be practical and then sport as such realized. So, this is just another measure of the government of the Republic of Croatia to be commended and which is certainly in its set and overall, so it confirms that the government has not only a good intention but is aware, responsible and comprehensive and discreet, that it faces these current problems altogether in society, and in this case, that it is also about sport. I would say something else that, let's remember sports not only when we're second in the football world, when we're winning Olympic, world, European, any other gold or medals and then usually it's very emotional, then we remember, so we're building stadiums, camps, then even then we might just remember those people standing next to those athletes, so their coaches and others in the accompanying logistics sense, and even their families. Let's also remember when it isn't, and now it's time and let's work on that that the Law on Sports or that we're implementing the National Programme of Sports, thank you and therefore, which was brought in last year in the Assembly, and it lasts until 2026, so that it gets its own action plan and that it's not even bad here, so that we have action not only in the long term but also in the short term, and especially now for these few months, that, that we know what will happen with our sport or in general, because sport is not only sport, so it's not just professional work competition, massity, financing, it's wider social inclusion through cheering, lifestyle, national pride, media, tourism, traffic, and everything else. I have a few questions, you've published decisions on suspending public calls and competitions, I've seen on your pages, redistributed these 40 million kunas, and I'm wondering if it's still as much as possible, and if by the end of this year, we're all hoping, in part, to return to the realisation of the construction of sports infrastructure or some other rewards that are through sport, and I'd ask you to keep thinking, and to be proactive and active in thinking about sports and the basic Sport Act, so let's respect the situation where we're now more than all of us are to find that sport should not be financed from the state public registers, but to be an organization that pushes itself, that he, that we open it up to a part more significant and more transparent and capital, so that he can convert whether it's owned, co-ownership, so we come to, to professional and amateur sport, to say that there's that there's a lot to say that there's a lot of things that we's a lot of energy, that we's a lot that there's a lot of energy that we's a lot, that we's a lot of good idea. And in the end, I would just tell my messages to my colleagues, to the mayors, to the mayors, to the mayors and to everyone else that in the rebalances they prepare not to forget about sports and civil society. So, the town of Velika Gorica, the city where I'm headed no matter what the competition is, 35 percent will stand out 40 percent every month, so for what's called. Zero maintenance and that, that part of civil society, that our sport to survive, live and then we all look forward to it together as we will rejoice and in the future when this or the wider A crisis. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199749	We don't have a replica. Then let's go to the debate of our esteemed colleague, Anka Mrak-Taritsh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199750	Thank you very much, dear President HS, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We absolutely appreciate it, and we think it's extremely good that it's decided on such a single solution to the people in the sport. Indeed we see only the top of the pyramid, we see top athletes, we see their successes, and then we experience it as our personal success because we look forward, we celebrate, they're all in uniforms, but behind it stands a terrible lot of effort, a terrible lot of work, a terrible work of environment, parents and investments, you see very much, so you end up seeing coaches who are with top athletes. These coaches weren't at the beginning, they're coaches who are sitting at home today, who actually live on membership fees, because you have people who just want their kids to train or do something, to play sports. It's an extremely good sport to do. When we talk about infrastructure, you have buildings and you have people. We could have had great halls, any municipality or city could have a hall. They're actually standing empty now because sport and everything else make up people, made up of those janitors who keep that space, who cut grass on the football field because if they don't have hair, make up coaches who work with kids from the earliest age, make up the guns that prepare everything they need to prepare, now they actually have to live for the day after. We all come from different environments and have different experiences and we're different ages of life, this crown actually brings back some memories. I'm from a town where it was the most normal thing, so when I was in high school or high school, there was a basketball championship in high school that wasn't too much. That was you, so in that hall where we had people, or all of us who came to watch, the girls came to watch the boys, someone came this or that, more than at some games that they did today. The whitesmith from where it came from is the town of handballs, none of us who passed, so we all played handball and then it actually made handball players. I watched through my children, let's say in Zagreb there was swimming among other things, which I think is essential that children learn to swim and then there were these competitions at Youth or at Savi there were more parents, grandparents, grandparents and aunts in that competition than later it was about Europeans or any championship that wasn't really good, it's wrong. But that's what athletes come from, that's what makes it a top. So when you see us by the number of Olympic medals compared to the number of inhabitants and everything else, the situation is absolutely unrealistic that we have so much in terms of investment, but we do. Therefore, this law that was he had to come to keep all this alive so that one day I could function. When you ask the kids, the little kids they miss, those little kids say they miss some sport. The girls say they're short on dancing, ballet in the Corona era, boys say they lack the company they used to be. So, good company in sports none of the athletes teach you anything guilty. They teach you how to compete, to work, to be better and, of course, someone is capable of something a little bit and not a bit. Me, I use this opportunity to torture one other thing that comes to me, which is training athletes. The athletes are sitting at home, they're doing trainings that are conditional, to stay fit, but they don't do others. I asked yesterday and Minister Berosha you have an individual sport that may well be taking place. When I first think about sailors, I've been sailing for years, so let's just say I know something more about it. Sailors train you, so we have either singles or two, singles alone in his boat, two doubles, when he goes out to the sea he prepares his sailboat regardless of the fortinier so he is either a double or a laser or he is nice so the male goes out to the sea and goes out his trainer in the dinghy. That coach and the one that comes out don't even have a touch because I can't have, this sail, this one looks on the side. Maybe the time has come to allow individual athletes to start training.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199751	Thank you. We're going with three replicas, first colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199752	Thank you very much, President. My colleague Mrak Taritaš, what I want to replicate and what you have pointed out well, and it is important when we talk about sports, it is always important to point out that when we talk about sports, we rarely only think about top athletes, and in fact it is crucial to increase the activity of sports and recreation from primary school through high schools, colleges to deep in age because the data are truly devastating. So, children from 8 years of age 88% deal with satisfactory physical activities, teenagers, adolescents only 19%, adults 18 to 64 years of age 16% deal with satisfying physical activity, and over 65 only 6% should therefore be the goal of all of our discussions to encourage all generations to practice sports more because, of course, it has been proven in all studies that physical activity ensures a longer and more quality life.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199753	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199754	I couldn't agree more with you. I always try to talk about examples that are close to me. I have two sons, one was the top athlete of the Olympic candidate, the other went to all the sports and he wasn't at all, but he went. And today, he's missing the gym, he's walking home practice today, but in order for someone to become a top athlete, what we see behind that, especially in some sports, you have to have hundreds, thousands of children. But what's important, it's important that we make sure that kids are involved in sports, not only do we like to have those top athletes, sports activities is healthy behind the fact that kids deal with sports are non-name coaches who will never get that they're some kind of reward, but they're important to us. They're people, this crown has shown that they're actually the basis of all human beings.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199755	You're a colleague now, Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199756	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, colleagues of Taritash here are almost all the talents that begin at the lowest levels and many talents remain undiscovered because they do not have the most basic things and equipment they need in order to start playing that sport or to allow their parents to direct them further so that they can show their talent. And then on the other hand, we have the leaders of the unit of local self-government, regional self-government, such as the mayor of my county of Sisak-Moslavina Ivo Žinić, who transfers budget funds to the Football Alliance so that he can watch football teams all over the world at the expense of the Football Alliance. I think the funds are being misaligned and that in that first step of sports, everyone needs to have the most basic equipment in order to show their talent if they have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199757	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199758	Thank you very much. So to us, this is really an unusual situation that doesn't last that long, but it's revealed all the scales of some other things. As it is with these e-passes, so we've already come to a million, we've shown that our depravated so many municipalities, the cities, the county has shown actually the right proportion that it doesn't have to be just as it has shown what you're pointing to. So football is all good-looking in football is spinning big money, but the role of county, the role of municipalities and cities is to invest exactly on what you've indicated, to invest in having kids play sports. Well, whoever's good will always find their way, but it's important that children deal with sports for the simple reason because it's good for growing up, for thinking, for getting along in all situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199759	Thank you. A colleague of Vlaović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199760	Thank you very much. Fellow Members, it is good to discuss sports and sports workers in these difficult moments and to ensure through this law personal income and trainers and leaders are important for the continuation of all sports activities. But surely, in the city of Zagreb, we must make sure that every citizen can return to his apartment, his home and that the city of Zagreb, or the mayor, spent a lot of money in vain, and now he gives up his citizens and will not help them rebuild their houses. It is nice to have halls and football courts and swimming pools in Zagreb, but in many areas in Slavonia there are also football clubs and handball clubs and basketball because there are no sources of funding. Their budgets of municipalities and cities are not such that they can participate more actively and help and rely on these clubs mainly on volunteers. And that's why we need to clap on these volunteers who hold sports in rural areas and come up with models of funding for that sport in rural areas, not just financing top-notch sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199761	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199762	That's right, so top-notch sports have sports that are easy to look at, that have their sponsors and everything else and there's a lot of money. There's a top-notch sport where there's not so much resources for different reasons, but these are sports that are important, which are important, so everyone's for something. So what really is the role of local environments is that the maximum assets they have invest in some kind of sport that is characteristic of it. Of course you won't be dealing with skiing someone in Slavonia, of course it's the simplest thing to do with football, you need to have a ball you don't even have to play barefoot. But what's important is investing in children, this investment in children is always worth it. And when it comes to... and the city of Zagreb it could be a session of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199763	Thank you. It is for the City Hall of Zagreb. We're moving on with individual debates, now it's time for a respected colleague, Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199764	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state. What is our sport funded from? One lucky thing is that very little almost nothing is financed by tickets from viewers and even football. If that were to happen, no one would survive. That's what I say today is luck in the accident, because we don't have a public gathering and when it starts in sports competitions, it probably won't even be able to keep gathering and viewers won't be able to come live to watch certain sports. So this is another opportunity to really make one serious change to the paradigm and way of system and funding, but also to the entire system of sports. And here I'm not just thinking about the state, the state has to take the initiative here obviously because if it's left to the local self-government units according to current legal powers, that's what we have. Today, we succeed primarily because of private initiative and private enthusiasm, especially parents, and even in team sports. It's sad that someone who doesn't have the ability to provide certain sponsorships or finance clubs or who doesn't have certain knowledge of a particular sport for his child to pass it on, to train him is dependent on a system that won't really push him through if there are others who are more important, so I'm even talking about team sports about what's so-called. pushing or favouring certain players. They're kids today, maybe they're professional players tomorrow. Sports must be available for all, and that's the job of the state. When we talked about the halls, I have one example since I've been in sports for a long time, even professionally, on the other hand, and on the other hand, our hall in Osijek is as self-sustainable as it was cleverly designed. It meets its costs of about 40% with its own income with income and what the city allows for the terms of certain sports collectives and thus is actually a closed structure. And I think it's a good example of how to do not megalomaniac, of course there are revenues not only from renting certain business spaces but also from concerts, etc., and then eventually even renting some terms, but that's, say, the obligation of the city and that's good, so that could be the way the state gives infrastructure, when we talk about some swimming sites. It's no problem to build something, the problem is to maintain something because ultimately these costs are much higher. How to finance the cold drive, the people who do everything that goes on, that means that this sustainability system should be to make something, and to manage the local self-government and that it is working, but that it is working in forms that can be as self-sustainable, that it is not a huge space for 15,000, 10,000 people who heat up, cool it, but that it is modular and that it is more adapted to the needs of that place or a wider part of the population. We generally do this well and this bill, I said we will support it and we should also think about those smallest collectives, sports associations to these professional associations that we need to find a system, what I said we should train if we stick to 5 then by 5 we continue to keep all those who gather until 5, but they are the same that they do not change that they can continue to train. These are individual sports or some that are continuous, twin, etc. in rowing is our systematic investment, and this is thinking about the education system to be physical now for 3 hours a week, even more. Why? Because that's what health indicators tell us. That children were threatening, inactive because of simple societies which are now all behind computers, the simple way their entertainment is mostly inside, not out on the road or on the playground. And that's why it's important that by investing in sports, in fact every kuna there is less kuna invested in the health system cost because a lot of diseases are connected because of inactivity, from diabetes, from cardiovascular all that can be prevented, and that's the meaning of every health system, not to solve when the problem comes, but to prevent it from even coming to the hospital problem. And that is why investing in this sport is important and therefore it should be an exceptional priority for health and for every kuna there should be multipled in several ways and through promotion and through health and through the work of these athletes themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199765	Thank you very much. Let's move on, do we have replicas? Okay. We have two replicas, the first line has Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199766	Thank you very much. I wanted to relate to your discussion. You were talking about income. The most recent data we have based on a report from the State Audit Office that we have just now received on our benches, where it can serve us well as a comparison with the state of sports. So, the state audit was carried out in 24 sports associations and alliances, totaling 287 million kunas of income and 283 million kunas of expenditure, of which 60% by special regulations is primarily lottery funding, 34% of donations are actually local self-government units, 2.4 sponsorships, 1.4% membership fees. That's a total of 98% of the income. And that's probably how it is in the whole sport. If we see that it's under special regulations, lottery funding, donations of local self-government units and sponsorship, it's going to feel less. Therefore, the problems that await us are truly enormous.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199767	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199768	Yes, as far as roof alliances are concerned, as far as certain associations are concerned, they get something downgraded, but it remains practically the basis of funding. They're funding with their own sponsorship contracts except for football clubs where it's as interesting as it is, there's no. Why? Because viewers are also a guarantee of advertising. No one's going to advertise today, sport is being advertised, and marketing is being given as one of two types of hidden funding, hidden donations. Why? Because it's so tax-free. You, if you do, rent a commercial at a club, to give you.../incomprehensible/... it's 100% cost that is denied and VAT if it's in the system, if it's not like that it's 100% cost. You give donations you know the conditions for donation and how much it's worth in profit tax. In that we actually need to look at how to help our clubs, that they're actually interesting to all those sponsors, and I'm saying now it's luck in an accident because income they... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199769	Thank you very much. Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199770	Thank you. Dear Curaj, you have beautifully cited an example of a sports hall in Osijek that is self-sustainable and that is a fine example when investing money in sports to think about investing in a way that is long-term sustainable. But we also have examples where you can't just look at the purely economically, an example of the municipality of Dragalić, a primary school, but a 10-year sports hall has not been built, the municipality has given land, produced project documentation, produced a building permit, even started works so as not to fail a building permit, and today this one-part hall is not built and there is no way. So here is an appeal for you and your minister to build this hall because children in Dragalić would also be engaged in sports, not to threaten and have the same chances as their children in Zagreb, Osijek or somewhere else. And to be absurd, there is a higher teaching of physical education in a local home where the municipalities won't even refund the costs, heating, electricity and maintenance. Well, I don't think it's a good example of how you invest in sports on a local level.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199771	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199772	So these are two separate things, one we're talking about sports halls, the other about teaching-sports, for teaching-sports that you mention is the jurisdictional particular county of Brod-Posavina and she's the founder and she should work, and we've passed a law at the level of this mandate that the ministry can even invest directly somewhere, so it's precisely to be seen because things can't be left to the case of local authorities, which apparently are elected regardless of what they do. As far as the hall is concerned, we must generally observe it on the principle of cableways. So it doesn't go to some physicality because it has no cost, so one Real Madrid has sold its stadium to the city of Madrid, so he couldn't maintain or I guess that's how they did it. So what do the cablemen do? The cable car itself is invaluable, but it brings to the cost-benefit model in hotels to everyone else etc. So it brings some potential for profit, and so does those halls, they per se, the pools, so they can never be economically profitable, but that cost of benefit is much higher I talked about both the health system and what it brings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199773	Thank you very much. Mr. Jovanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199774	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's a colleague and a colleague, a few sentences in this debate. Of course, this topic requires a much wider discussion to contribute as the most legislative body by improving sports and by encouraging school sports, student sports, recreation and creating preconditions for top sports. Sports in the EU is given significant attention that is not surprising. In fact, it is considered that in addition to the importance of more health, which is no longer a controversial, longer and better quality sport life at all, sport represents the big and fastest growing sector in the European economy. Therefore, sport contributes to the European economy with 2% of European gross domestic product and 3% of total employment. The EU therefore promotes the economic development of the sport sector in particular through 4 areas. These are sports economies, tourism, recreation and fitness, media and education. There are millions of Erasmus plus programs available to us, and we hope to make the most of them. Therefore, this crisis can also pose a challenge for some projects in Croatia through these 4 areas of sports economy where we can find additional funds for our athletes, but what is particularly important through... tourist activities, through attracting athletes and recreationals to Croatia after the end of this crown crisis. I think it will be one of the important areas where together with the Ministry of Tourism and the State Sport Office we need to find a way to attract as many recreational athletes as possible in Croatia. Isolating for sport we heard today in Croatia at the beginning of the EU, not since yesterday and I am afraid this crisis will not allow us to improve on that scale unfortunately. According to ERUOSSTAT in Croatia, only 0.06% of GDP is singled out for sport while it is the highest for example. in Hungary 1.12, Sweden, France around 1 otherwise EU average 0.33%. So it is clear that the country is more economically developed it is more unique for sport and recreation, so there is a direct positive correlation between GDP per capital and EU and state spending on sport and recreation. And when we calculate this, it is clear that countries that are less developed cannot invest as those highly developed, and if we factor that into our calculations, I said that the average of 0.33% of GDP is therefore with this calculation we will not get to 0.33%, and that, according to all these 0.06 parameters, Croatia should come to 0.25% of GDP, which means that the expectations of annual segregation should be tripled, or that we should then reach about 900 million kuna. This would still be important below the European average, but it would somehow be appropriate for our economic standard. Sadly, anything that happens will surely make that goal difficult, difficult to reach. Otherwise, these EUROSTAT surveys show a positive correlation between direct positive investment correlation in sport and recreation and life expectancy. So, if we look at this table, we will see that countries that feel a lot of investment in sport and recreation like Sweden and France are at the top of the life expectancy, and Croatia is in line with its singles again at the bottom. So, I don't know if you know every third child goes to school on a bus or is driven by parents, and more than a third of children don't participate in any sports, dance, recreational activities, but more than 56% spends more than 2 hours in front of television and other electronic devices, which is now further worsened. Thus, without this devastating statistic, it is clear that school children are becoming less and less active physically because of this sedentary lifestyle, which will certainly have a bad long-term impact on life’s expected duration if we fail to change something. And if there were positive shifts, then there was this program called "Poligona" which also won the award in Brussels as the best designed project to improve physical activity in schools where in 2015 there were 120 "Poligones" for school children who had no conditions to play sports in halls, and for 2020, there were as many as a thousand of these "Poligones" for all those schools that have not yet reached the conditions of activity in sports halls. Therefore, for this debate, by supporting this all you have suggested, of course it should be an initial analysis to correct all the mistakes we have had in the coming period and to ensure that as much sports recreational activities as possible throughout the lifetime of all inhabitants of Croatia are present.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199775	Thank you very much. The first line has Mrs. Dark Tarritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199776	Thank you very much. Comrade Jovanovic, you have talked among other things about the challenges this coronary virus can which should somehow encourage us to come out smarter. When it comes to sports, not only sports, but only the results can be associated with tourism, related to certain economic branches. But I'm afraid of something else. When you look at clubs and general sport activities are related to budgets or their counties or their municipalities and cities and their power as much as they can finance, what has already happened to me, and probably to you all, and that is that already some municipalities and cities in terms of some budget rebalance or redistributed the first thing they set out to give up is the associated funding in sport. And the message that should be from this pay phone, or from this House, to think a little bit, and that's not the thing to cut first.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199777	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199778	My colleague Mrak Taritaš, unfortunately you are absolutely right and I am afraid of this period that is ahead of us, I have just cited the figures of the State Audit Office from which 98% of these revenues actually come from an area that will be very questionable, so the budget of the units of local self-government, the lottery assets, and one small percentage comes from membership fees, only 1.4%. But I'm afraid there will be problems here and so far, and there has become an inequality among children to pay these membership fees. Now an even greater number of people will be in trouble with paying memberships to sports clubs so that there will again be inequality among children in the Republic of Croatia and there should be thought and seen in the long run how to make it possible in the long run that there is no membership fee for all children who want to play sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199779	Second replica, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199780	Thank you very much. My colleague Jovanovic, you mentioned one very important thing to me, and this is a school sport for several reasons, primarily the largest hall infrastructure is practically a school. The second thing is, the school has educated educated educated people who deal with physical culture and should simply do a promotion for the most massive sport in sports school societies. Unfortunately, we don't have any more of those famous competitions, I remember when high school at the finals of the high school basketball championship box at the time the popular "Cube Box" was full, the same story was with some other sports. Simply this is an opportunity for us to agree differently on a sports organisation, to have the nucleus sport in school sports societies, and from that point on the basis of these competitions they are the most qualified to pull and push into some higher competitive cycle that is financed from some other means because obviously the biggest problem of sport is funding, which is unfortunately such a course.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199781	Mr. Jovanovic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199782	Yes, I fully agree with you, and I followed it for a while, and I saw that there were both more and more well-organized competitions at the level of primary and secondary schools, and very active students began. Here unfortunately there will be no next days there should be a big finale of student sports in Croatia. But you know what the additional problem is? So in the desire to make school as successful as possible, the better often these competitions are sent to children who are already very active in sports clubs, so unfortunately those who are not so successful, so high-quality and there is a loss of opportunity, so that there should be some solution not only to be the goal of winning but to motivate as many children as possible to engage in sports through school sports societies.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199783	Thank you very much. Mr. Veseligaj has his word now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199784	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's what I'm going to say at the beginning, like everyone who participated in the debate, of course I support these measures that have been taken, I'm going to say for the rescue of an important segment of sport, of course it's the preservation of jobs I'm going to tell people who actually hold one and the spine of professional, semi-professional sport. But I would still like to look more at amateur sport in my debate, and I am glad that through a number of discussions I have heard the problem of sports in smaller areas simply one of its importance for the health of young people, for the health of the entire population, but I will add here, there will be even more after this crisis has passed because the sport with culture is actually going to say I can have some therapeutic effect once this one collective tragedy that we all experience with the coronary virus has passed. It is clear that this sport in order to be on some kind of healthy footing, in order to maintain it at all, needs certain financial support. This financial support is in smaller environments exclusively, I'm not going to say it exclusively but mostly in local self-government units that are often called out, and now we're waiting for local self-government to make a contribution in these times of crisis as well. But I will say that the local self-government has already given it in some way because here is the government we all supported, freed from paying income taxes for those entrepreneurs according to the criteria adopted and of course the budget of the units of local self-government will be much smaller. It is also clear in the discussions that the first part will unfortunately be reduced to expenditures in these parts relating to some civil society to sport, culture, etc. And that is why I clearly expect some government support for those units of local self-government, and in Croatia we have very large differences in fiscal capacity among local self-government units that will lose the most because of this. Another component from which sport is financed is the private sector and you can no longer expect donations like they were before this crisis. Indeed, the private sector, in fact, is worth the individual in this private sector, has made one big contribution. Here I have in the town of Pregrad an example of one... campaign where nearly 400,000 kunas were collected involved 180 people, most of the entrepreneurs who gave the biggest donations, it was a campaign to build tennis courts. Here we have applied to the competition of the State Sport Office, I know that there are 16 million kunas provided for these infrastructure projects and I hope that here you will not give up on these investments that are important, not only to improve sports infrastructure in smaller places, they are also important for the economy because someone will, of course, also need to build these sports fields. And I really expect that this competition is actually meant to be allocated through this competition to be truly transparent of the clear criteria and that we do not have the political favorites that we unfortunately knew and we still know to testify today. What the state can still help, except for these... which I said about the income tax lost by local units, certainly is to speed up certain payments which, primarily I mean here on payments from eu funds to local self-government, find some other instruments where they will go to some kind of clear and concrete help towards local self-government. To try, I say for a sport in smaller environments to think about at least making one fund from which these amateur clubs from smaller sports will be able to, here I will apostrophe here a female sport which is also in a very difficult position in smaller environments, that can still be financially supported and that it can be maintained because I think it is extremely important and important for the health of the entire population, and local self-government is sure that it will make as much contribution as possible in this situation. It is important that we discuss this too, we are all aware that today's sport is not at the top of the priority, that some other things are much more important. And here's a thank you to all of you once again who are here today on the front line of the front line, so to speak, from health workers, the Civil Protection Staff and all of their members of the valuable people working in the private sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199785	Thank you very much. Mr. Djujic, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199786	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Vesligaj, you have mentioned for who knows for what time this time this loss of income units of local self-government from income tax and I think it is important to mention and repeat it again and again, because in the first wave when the government helped entrepreneurship which was fine, one large part or most of it went to the burden of just cities and municipalities by reducing income taxes. And from the government, we were here when we voted on these packages and heard announcements that they would meet with representatives of cities and municipalities and that a solution would be found, or compensation from the government for those funds. I have a feeling that at this point this issue is being opened and occupied only by mayors and commissioners who have a problem with it, and it's very important. And just on this example of sports, we see why because if that doesn't make up for it then cities and municipalities will be forced to cut funds just for sport, culture and some other areas that are very important for citizens and raise the price of municipal services, which would certainly not be good, and therefore I appeal from here to the government once again that He's going through an emergency solution for this. [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199787	Mr. Squirt, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199788	Thank you very much. Comrade Djujic, yes, you've noticed exactly that. I think that on the side of the local self-government was a very correct relationship and that we are aware of all of that, of course we should first help the economy, that we should have one, strong help, of course and health sector, but other than these losses we have had through... I must say that a number of local self-governments have also taken certain measures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So from the delay or release of municipal fees, from being released from the payment of parents' kindergartens for the period which does not work, that numerous local units have also freed from paying public rent, that some have even gone to some intervention funds, of course, I am talking about fiscally stronger units of local self-government, I mean what is the general problem that you in Croatia have a tremendous difference in the fiscal capacity of local self-government units. So you have units of local self-government that have about 2.2.5 thousand kuna per capita to those that have 15 thousand kuna per capita and more. And from that you can immediately see how much who is, how much who alone can solve their problems Most local self-government units in Croatia unfortunately can't do that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199789	Thank you very much. Thank you. Sasa Djujic will now speak for herself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199790	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, so here I have said on behalf of the club and that is my personal position, so I support the amendments to this law and I think that they are timely, so we are not late, and I want to stress this two segments once again, so this financial position which should also protect employees' salaries in sports associations and this legal one that essentially legalises the competition or the end of the current sports season and follow-up, let's say new ones, which starts soon and what I said is that, in accordance with the moment and what happens to us, you follow the development and you propose some new measures and new solutions. I want to point out here a problem that may not be in focus right now, but I appeal to you from the Department of Sports, therefore, to pay attention to that too, and it is about sports and recreational fishing, although it is not directly in your jurisdiction but in the management of the Ministry of Agriculture, but it is a question of sports and sport, and as the Office of Sports, you can draw attention to this problem, so because of this situation in which we have found ourselves is currently a ban on sports and recreational fishing. And people, for example, paid for, they paid for the sports licenses, or fishing permits that could do it, and basically because of the measures that are in place, they can't do it. I now appeal to you to refer perhaps an appeal to the Ministry of Agriculture, I will present the same thing today, I have written a parliamentary question for the minister, or a question that I propose to resolve, to find some way that the duration of these permits may be extended until the end of the pandemic, i.e. in a way that compensates people for that because these are not small amounts for people. So someone pays 800 to 1100 kn fishing licence which de facto so far, a month, two days can't be used because of this situation. I think it's one of the perhaps minor problems with these huge ones we're facing right now, but it's certainly a problem of financial nature. Here, I appeal to you to pay attention to it, but also to such similar cases, which may be imposed on sport or will go out somewhere in this matter of membership, etc., so that it doesn't turn out that athletes must pay for their burden then, or that maybe the state finds a way to compensate for it because for the state it shouldn't be a big asset, and for these small people concerned, it's a significant asset. Here, not to spread, I think I've said enough on behalf of the club, but I wanted to draw attention to this problem and maybe some similar problems that might arise in these coming times, and I want you to act so quickly in the future when it comes to sports. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199791	Mr. Squirt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199792	Thank you very much, President. Well, here's a fellow Djujic, in your debate, you actually mentioned here, a particular sport that you might be able to, in fact, start some activities, when and when we're going to go, as the Prime Minister would say by relaxing these measures. I think it's certainly very important for us to go in that direction and that one way, especially those sports di we can keep this social distance, and sports fishing must be one of them. I believe that, given how long this takes, how many people are already imprisoned in their homes that it is very important, of course, we will not decide either of you or me about it, but will decide the professionals, I believe and the Parliament will confirm it, if it is necessary, but that it will certainly go with it, because we all know that the human being is still a social being and that he suffers very badly in these moments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199793	Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic, replica. Ah, excuse me, yes, yes, here you go, Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199794	Dear Vice President, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199795	No, no, I'm sorry, I didn't see the gentleman come in. Djujic to respond to the replica. [[- Yeah, sorry, okay, all right.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199796	Well, thank you very much. Well, we're not going to decide on that relaxation either, of course, but we can make some suggestions that I can then and talk about in this High House that may then be the basis for someone to even consider those decisions and what we're talking about. I certainly think that this problem of fishing licences that I mentioned is one problem that can be relatively easily solved. Also, our fishermen, it has nothing to do with sports now, which means with the economic branch, have proposed towards the ministry and the movement of poachers in some other season, i.e. that this part is compensated so that people will not be at a loss during which they cannot carry out their activity. This is where they haven't been met yet, but that's why we need to talk in this House about these problems that people in Croatia are facing today and then get some answers or encourage some measures by the Government to make it easier for people, and that life. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199797	Mr. Zekanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199798	Dear Vice President of the Assembly, you've been a little late for me yesterday, and I've just been told from the civil headquarters that it's approved sports fishing, so I'm glad that what I was saying to Minister Beros yesterday that he took this measure seriously and that this measure has been changed, here's the message that sports fishing is being provided individually and on sweet waters and at sea, and that's now, that measure is addressed to local headquarters. I'm glad that here you noticed the same thing, but here's the Croatian sovereigns as about the fishing grounds, in terms of the market, and here they were first, pointing to real problems. And I am pleased to see it and my praises are here it is to the headquarters of civil protection in this sense, to this extent that it responded to the search of Croatian sovereigns and that people normally, which is also logically possible to hunt fish individually means both at sea and on rivers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199799	Mr. Djujic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199800	I'm glad that Croatian sovereigns are thinking this way and I'm glad you're still a step behind the SDP because I wasn't talking about what you were saying yesterday, but about something you're probably going to talk about tomorrow, and that's financial compensation for fishing licenses. So not the permission of this sport fishing but to compensate people for the amount of financial permits they paid for this period they couldn't consume. So that's what I'm talking about right now, and I'm glad you're following us, so you'll probably be talking about what the SDP was talking about tomorrow, but at this point it's not important, but it's important that these problems be solved for the benefit of Croatian citizens. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199801	Thank you both. Mr. Shuker.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199802	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, above all congratulations, that you responded quickly to what was crucial. Perhaps all those who debated did not read the important thing of this law, which is to change the competitive character must be brought a year before it begins. And here only two maybe things to think about. One is to clearly define what a managing body is in national alliances, because these are administrative and executive committees, so they make a decision. So far, these decisions have been made by congregations. So to define it. And the other thing, what about those alliances that have already made the decision to change the system of competition, maybe they should go from the state office to just according to these amendments to the Sport Act make new decisions and make this.../incomprehensible/... And now I'm going to go back to what everyone's talking about and what's actually the biggest problem of Croatian sport, which is financing. And I'll start with the roof organization, so to speak, it's not roofy, but it is, and in fact it's also the best Croatian athletes who, regardless of the Olympic Games have been delayed, the Olympic Games will be next year, they are Olympic candidates and they have certain fees that they receive from the Croatian Olympic Committee. Not only are they, but I also mean the almost complete coaching staff in the Republic of Croatia who are training the Olympics, with two team sports only having to fight for the Olympic Games on qualifications. Since certain needs on the spending side of the state budget exist on the one hand, and the revenues from which sport is financed will be significantly reduced because at this point we see that virtually none of the bookies, not one of these who organizes gambling, are not working, and we know that the Olympic Committee is mostly funded by the funds that are collected, which are paid by those who stage gambling. So that's one problem that can happen in the future. What another source of sport financing is the basis of the Law on meeting the common needs in sport which is when budgeting is required to adopt each unit of local and regional self-government. The budget of the local self-government units will also be reduced on the basis that income tax will be reduced because many are either applying government measures, and this is actually what the government has made possible for them to preserve jobs, which is that they pay the salary of 4,000 kuna, so there will be no income tax, and there will be a reduction of municipal fees, and that is, these are.../incomprehensible/... the sources of income of local self-government units, and there is now one thing that needs to be clearly defined here. You have at sports clubs coaches who train the first team and they have a basic working relationship with those clubs. And what about that force of experts who train a youth drive that is except in these big clubs, they don't have a basic working relationship with sports clubs where they work, but whether they're receiving any fees, whether they're working on the basis of some kind of contract, whether they're the funds they get from the budget of local self-government units, or whether they're the funds of this membership fee. And when you look at the total number of people who work in sports, there is unfortunately the most in the professional work. Because there's little football school or basketball or anything else in these big clubs that have employees of these people, but most clubs have these people on the contract or something else. And we need to be aware tomorrow when all this goes through with solving financial problems, along with what the government and sport have put into these measures to preserve jobs, we need to think about how to keep this sport alive because it will be decimated to say so and quite cut off about the source of financial resources, but if it remains that professional frame, if those people who are going to work with those kids are going to have a future, then that sport has a perspective. Therefore, it is also good that you have brought these amendments to the law regarding the competitive character for all selections, which the Government has put into these measures for the preservation of jobs and athletes, and I have seen that it was the initiative of the central office and on this all the honour, but these are some things that we simply have to think about because nothing will turn overnight. We just have to think about that day after what and how, because we just have to keep the infrastructure, if we don't save it, then unfortunately everything we're saying is going to be for nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199803	The first line has Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199804	I, on behalf of our club, also put an emphasis on the fact that the financing of sports is one of, let's say, problems we should put emphasis on in the near future because that's arranged properly, let's say, with control, maybe today we'd be better off going through this crisis, but of course we've talked about it a lot, we won't get rid of it overnight, so that's one complex problem that requires a structural reform, but basically, why I came forward, you mentioned this form well, the bookies you mentioned. In fact, as gambling traffic falls today and I think it should be stressed that at this time, very likely, as we have online teaching, we have online some active ones, there may be an increase in online betting. And we know that last year the Ministry of Finance tried to put as much surveillance as possible, and illegal bookies that don't actually pay the state any taxes, don't give these 5% to finance sports, and I think we need to increase control in this weather today. Because citizens probably find ways [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] to replace this physical betting and I think that's where we all have to open up... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] eyes and that we need to give another extra effort to prevent it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199805	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199806	Yes, I agree with you, and I think the Ministry of Finance is trying to do this, but I think there's a far greater problem with those outside who are making this online betting than with domestic bookmakers because I think even domestic bookmakers would be responsible for putting it into some kind of frameworks and then having them dominate it, but certainly the Law on Sport Financing and Change of Tax Laws, as far as sports is concerned, is something that we have to solve in the near future because if we want transparency in sport, if we want healthy sport, then we can only do it in such a way because if you define the rules by which someone plays the game, if you define the rules how it is funded, then he has very little chance of making anything smooth or something. So we're the ones who have to pass the laws and we're the ones who have to define the rules and we're the ones who have to make the legal decisions to all those who are interested in investing in sports with certain incentive tax measures and Just make them invest. [[Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199807	Thank you very much. G.../incomprehensible/... Excuse me, ma'am. Peric, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199808	... Dear Vice President, dear colleague Shucker. [[Specially enabled.]] Well, you mentioned ways of funding actually sports and everything about it. Of course, this is a very high-quality solution because it allows for the redistribution of these funds, but what is very important is that units of local self-government, you mentioned a large amount of actually participating to the functioning of sports clubs, and also, memberships that are at this point will not be possible to charge from members who are members of these clubs, therefore, thus preventing the retention of this very cold drive and therefore it is very important to apply this also in the provisions of local communities, sports communities.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199809	Thank you. Mr. Shuker, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199810	Yes, colleague Peric, you're right. But it just shows something else, in which the complex problems of the Croatian government that balances in all of this together are simply, you just mentioned a small segment of measures that can be, you have to bring in for sport to work. Now, if they don't involve local self-government units that they're in the interest of protecting it, not that they're related, someone like this, somebody's throwing away all the measures that the government is taking. But these discussions today have simply shown the complexity of the time we live in, and now we could take out any segment of our society like this, it would probably be very similar, and we are all in favour of keeping something, but when we need to agree on some kind of financial structure, what is sustainable and what can be financed, then unfortunately we start to think uncritically, and that's what's not good. And that's why I'm saying, it's a great honor to the government at both measures. It's a good thing the Office reacted as a home office. That, just one sentence, please, that sportsmen and athletes should be included in these measures to preserve jobs. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199811	Thank you very much. And Mr. Bull at the end, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199812	Comrade Shuker, the crown crisis is, the time to draw the line and see that the sport did not work well, regardless of what our athletes are, mainly top-notch promoters of the Republic of Croatia. I'll mention it again. Croatia has invested in the wrong infrastructure facilities, projects and facilities that are burdens and local self-government, these are examples of the hall we have, which are not rentable. We have today... in 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia, our children have no opportunity to engage in sports at all, which is one of the key and demographic problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So now we have to draw the line and say that it wasn't a good master, and the sport and this measure is good and the triba is accepted because of course the triba fund employees who are important for the maintenance of sports, but it's time to draw the line and finally turn to the sport both amateurally and means the sport of our students, students, young people, older ones. and not only invests in the wrong projects. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199813	Shuker, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199814	And fellow Bull, only every serious country that thinks about the development of sports has so-called. elite sports facilities in which, which meet the conditions for maintaining international competitions, are European and world championships. And there's also, so to speak, mass sports facilities, they're sports halls at the local level for the number of viewers that are suitable for the environment in which this sport is taking place, and if we're going to think and think about it that way then, look, we have the world's champions in football, and look at what our sports, football stadiums look like. It's a disaster. Whether these halls are used in an adequate manner as planned to be used, it is another pair of shoes, but Croatia, any hall event, from large concerts to large sports events, the next 10, 15 years should not be invested in a lip because it has facilities in which it can do so. Here, the Handball Union is running for World Cup, they don't need And they don't want to invest 'cause they've got the halls ready. [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199815	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Zekanovic's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199816	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Here, I must make a small introduction, the Croatian sovereigns first warned about the problem of closed markets. I'm glad the Civil Protection Staff realized that at least the markets were partially open. We first warned about the problem of closed fishing shops, and I'm glad they're partially open. We were the first and only to warn about the problem of this sport fishing, and I'm glad that today here it is, just news that sports fishing is enabled, enabled. We would continue to warn against the illogicality that people can only get a pass for one unit of local self-government or municipality, city. I hope that too, that will be considered. I am pleased that the state is the same measure proposed by Croatian sovereigns, which is a measure to ensure that contributions are not only a delay but a lasting award measure by the state of contribution, I am glad that this is accepted. But I would like these other things that Croatian sovereigns are stressing, that they take seriously, and that Croatia must be self-sufficient, we have talked about this first, and we will stress further, to realize that unfortunately today the EU has failed and that we have one European selfishness, and that that is why we have to turn to ourselves, to turn to Croatian food producers as much as possible because there is prosperity, we provide ourselves with lasting prosperity, that the Civil Protection Staff makes one dynamic plan to abolish these measures, and now I will also make this topic a dynamic plan for opening sports, and that there are individual sports like tennis, boxing, put them as priorities, and that literally from tomorrow these sports do not make sense that these sports, that people with these sports are not engaged. I'm glad we're going to discuss the executions today, so it's a population that's very important to protect itself. I've talked a lot in front of the club already about the measures that should be taken in sports. I'd like to add a little bit here, here are the people from the field telling me, sportsmen, here are your praises and your work, secretary of state, I must confess and praise Mr. Darko Vukic, so as an expert inside the office who has been extremely engaged in these measures, here, I must say, from a pay phone here, I've received these messages from more people, and in that sense I have to say it. But I'd like to, and that's the same message from the field. That what we're going to do now and what you're going to get is one, one input, information about how many people are working in sports, what clubs are active, how many people have participated in the competitions because it took part, etc., to have one now, one screening of the blood of Croatian sports and to know, tomorrow literally, how many real clubs and associations are engaged in sports, and how many are actually those bags, clubs that only take money, and actually sports are hardly even engaged. Now, that's, now you're going to, here, this crown crisis, let's use it to do something good. And let's now use this scan of the complete Croatian sport system for future, for the future, to see who is where and who needs to be helped and with what means. Here's another concrete measure from the field, talking about helping Croatian sports by businesses, by means of people who do business. Anyone who helps, finances a sport, we should be able to make it easier for him, it's a tax relief. That's not today. Of course, some amount put a few percent that can be used, not in absolute terms, but it should be made possible in any case. So let's take this opportunity to have one revision of the complete system, to see the blood count of Croatian sport and see after this data that you will get already tomorrow, to know who is really involved in sports, and in the right way, and who is exclusively taking money from not only the state but also local and regional self-government. Perhaps another measure, mentioned like this, I must mention, in a very large number of sports associations is the problem of directing which is very large. Local self-governments go out to meet, but there might be some kind of model to either cut or ease, or, I said, part of the subsidized. It may not be time for a crisis to talk about it, but here, to keep in mind, small sports clubs and directors are a very big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199817	Thank you, too. The first line has Mr. Mouse. furio
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199818	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, when you said that the country is permanently self-reliable, self-sufficient, in order to be a self-sufficient state, and in order to be in the country, we need to make a row in finance. We can't say anything to make it enough if we haven't done the right thing. And the order to make in finance is just as hard. This government did it and, of course, today, in this law that they bring to sports they have money to give. We need to see what failures we made in sports, from Maksimir, Velika, Zagreb, Split and similar clubs that have practically disappeared, where the big money has been thrown away, and there is no benefit. We don't have a real football stadium. And now, unfortunately, this earthquake is coming to us. When we build a stadium, Maksimir should be torn down, and it's been invested, whether 300, 500 million, I don't know, but I know a failure was made. Now that's a question today. And from this day forward, let us not fail. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] If we don't make mistakes, then we'll [[Thank you very much.]] Powers in the state to say what you said, just [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] sufficient state. [[Intruder: Mr. Zekanovic's reply.]] Yeah, but with order.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199819	Mr. Zekanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199820	Mr. Muscle, thank you for your replica. I've got to get right here, here's Minister Maric here to fix me up a little bit. So I may have wrongly said, so what people on the field say, they want the state to give up the income tax of 2% of the total profit to be able to invest in sports, and now it's actually a denial, 2% of the income or the turnover of companies. Now... And to that, eye, it's now and.../incomprehensible... so it doesn't turn out that I'm wrong, I've got it all wrong, and as far as I'm concerned, Mr. Muscle of your replica, I couldn't agree more. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Unfortunately, the state is one huge system and we often have one irrational spending of money, so in this sense we have construction of infrastructure halls that are unfortunately not used, some are used, some are inadequately and there should be audits and see where money is thrown unfortunately, and where money is necessary, and not invested in every resort, and of course in this which we are discussing today, which is sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199821	Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199822	Well, you mentioned all the merits of the sovereigns, but you probably didn't hear that the European Commission granted the same additional support to fishermen, and that will be very applicable immediately. Still, it is evident that the influence of both our representatives and our government is great. In addition, when it comes to sports halls, we must note that there is a hall such as my self-financed Zadar, which has not entered the public private partnership programme and which has fully returned the loan and is thus very successful. We also built a swimming pool that itself cannot function without additional support, but is very well solved. So it can't be unified, but what my colleague Schucker said we do have a very high-quality infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199823	Hrvoje Zekanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199824	Dear colleagues, I said that we have good use of sport infrastructure, which is used badly, which is well-funded, poorly funded or self-financed. I don't know exactly what the situation is with the Vishnik sports hall that you pointed out, I've heard many times that it's a great burden on the city and county budget of the city of Zadar, but you know it better and know the Zadars better. I don't think that's ideal. But I would ask you here to agree with your representative in the European Parliament Sokol, Resler, but there was Picula and Flego yesterday who said they were extremely unhappy with EU economic assistance to Croatia. Otherwise, out of $540 billion, Croatia has the right to a hundred billion, and from that part it can get maximum, here we see two billion, and European HDZ representatives are dissatisfied. So, don't defend what's indefensible, the EU has failed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199825	And in the end, Mr. Vezligaj, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199826	Thank you very much. Well, here's my colleague Zekanovic. You mentioned a few things that I think I share your opinion that the government might adopt them as one aid primarily to local self-government units. I will also mention only utility companies, here we are on sports funding also have in some units of local self-government a rather large role in financing local sport, and in the present situation they also came into major problems because they are actually organised in a good part as companies, so some of their market activities are also due to the suffering of losses, and for example they cannot use these measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia concerning salaries for their employees. In this regard, therefore, one call also to consider that utility companies can also use these measures means those 4,000 kunas that the state gives to the private sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199827	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199828	Thank you. Dear colleague, I agree, there are still a whole series of people, sectors affected by this crisis. I have to admit, it didn't occur to me, but why not the utility companies that are also hit, and we can't operate without the utility companies. Although as far as I'm thinking about it, they're under the authority of local self-government, then it should be a wave, then it should be... direct help to local self-government, not to public companies themselves. Otherwise, I can already see that many cities and municipalities are raising loans because they don't literally have salaries, simply that system has had a collapse in just a few days, so I just want to know how these municipalities and cities could function on the edge for so long, that there's no money for a month. And now that's one big problem, to do a review and see who did business or who had any supplies, and who danced on the edge and fell into the ambis.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199829	Thank you very much. And now, in the end, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, Mr. Bulj will finally speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199830	Thank you very much. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, citizens, athletes to whom we should thank for the promotion of the Republic of Croatia mainly in major sports. Here is mentioned earlier, and these people are the biggest promoters of the Republic of Croatia, and really when we talk about sports, we as a nation must be proud of all the teams, all the clubs, all those who give up in sports and who give the most. However, here I said certain problems, I believe the secretary heard it in an individual debate on behalf of the club, but here we see that this moment of the crown of the virus is mentioned at the speaker. Yes, the coronary virus is a huge problem, that Croatia has a huge problem and on the financing of sports mainly these two-thirds of Croatia where there is no one and that is one of the demographic measures we should be promoting sport in these areas, to invest more and thus essentially leaving people in these areas. I believe that this moment will now give new thoughts, the paradigms that I have always mentioned, and most of all, here is just sustainability. Yes, only the sustainability of the Republic of Croatia should be discussed. We have to protect Croatian athletes, we have to protect Croatian fishermen, we have asked for an exclusive economic belt, you have not voted. Perhaps now we should bring that measure of the exclusive economic belt to protect our seas. I asked to protect our domestic production there are three years to vote against GMO imports, sales, planting, and we sell GMOs. Even 90 MPs here who boasted of their measures voted against my proposal to ban the import of GMOs, declaring me someone who invented something. No, it's just that we sell and promote domestic production and domestic products that could help our sport because if there was a local development of agriculture in Slavonia, in my Dalmatian Zagora, that people would have left more for sport. Unfortunately, it was not at that time that those who promote today that they were the first to suggest something, did not first propose, but voted for GMOs, here I am speaking from here so now we must change things together that diets in my Sinj or any other, in Vrgorec, in Lica, in Zadar County in Sibenik-Kninska have the ability to practice sports the same way as in Zagreb, at least in part or in Slavnia. However, it is not so, we have an example, I mentioned it, we in Sinj have an Olympic pool that only works cast, in winter does not work, why, since the county does not care, every child could learn to swim and it is an obligation. But we don't use that pool, and we have potential, they're people down there, they're structures so they can be world's best water polo players, swimming. In winter, however, the pool is closed, with small investments, Mr. Secretary, we could have top athletes because the genetics of these people in the area is very important. He's locked up now. Why is the pool closed in Sinjo, here I am now asking, and there are huge funds invested? Which is why you do not use Sinjski hypodrom, which is the most beautiful part of Zagreb valley and we have Sinjska alka as a brand, a horse sport that we can promote. If it wasn't for a couple of people who invest in their horses private, if it weren't for people who train these children with their own good will, it couldn't just be the city of Sinj, but the county should help, the Secretary of Sports should help the Government, not just come to Sinjska Alka, to the top prosciutto and the drža prosciutto and take pictures. I was raised in the markets, I was selling to the diet market, I was carrying milk, I know what agriculture means and what it meant then to live in the country and in those areas and what sport meant in those areas. Why? Because he's a bond of men. My blue Mulligans came from an Alkar basketball club in '82. They didn't have the same uniforms in the finals with Bosnia who was Europe's champion. They're people of such genes, they don't invest, we've brought down such potential, human potential to practice sports. And it's known that they're top athletes. Al doesn't invest, so we have an unsecured pool that's been invested in huge funds, the first Olympic dimension in the former state was the Olympic dimensions. Because nobody cares. Not only could these sonic children, but children of all Cetina provinces, Dupolje, Split, could all come here for physical education, swimming exercise and sports to develop. But no one cares, no one is self-sufficient, no one who lives with a village and a peasant. not with those areas. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199831	Congratulations on genetics, but I'm also closing the debate, so we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199832	We will now move to a statement on the amendment, amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Sports Supplements, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 922. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, the Honorable State Secretary of the Central State Sport Office, Tomislav Družak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199833	Therefore, both amendments to the Legislative Committee are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199834	Thank you very much. They become an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199835	Final draft law supplementing the Sport Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 922, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During its statement on amendments, the proposer's representative adopted amendments to the Legislative Committee and they became an integral part of the final draft of the law. I am now voting on the final draft law supplementing the Sport Act, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 120 MPs, 118 for and 2 abstentions were voted, so most of the votes were passed by the Law on Sports Supplements.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199836	And we move on to: Final proposal of the Act on the Completion of the Law on the implementation of the law on money, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 924. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, a matter of urgency, means a second reading, can be submitted to the amendment by the end of the debate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Registrar's emergency procedure unites so first and second readings. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Does the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, Finance Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Mr Zdravko Maric want I can finish, so I'll give you my word. [[Intruder: You have a request for a break, Zekanovic.]] He wants as much as I can see, but he wants Mr. Zekanovic to ask for a word for a break. Here you are, Mr. Zekanovic, such is the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199837	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, dear Ministers, here I request a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns in order to consult further on the bill which, you give me, you do not give me your word, agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199838	All right, let's go, let's move on, let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199839	Okay, give me back some time, you know that time is precious.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199840	Time, give it back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199841	So, I'm looking for a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club for further consultations on this law. I am pleased that Minister Maric here, vice-president of the government such as Vice-President and Minister Bozinovic, and I want to highlight a problem here that is very obvious and which would like to be resolved as soon as possible. So this way, I am also telling Minister Maric as Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to make soon one roschad at the headquarters of civil protection, that you will be the president of the civil protection headquarters, as vice-president of the government, rather than Minister Bozinovic. Because I believe that police measures are not the measures that Croatia will pull out of this crisis and means medical, health and economic crisis, and that our biggest and most important crisis today is the economic crisis that we are in. And I think that you as a businessman, that you as an economist should actually head the civilian headquarters and that you should lead the civil protection headquarters. I will repeat, so I want it to be the voice of the people as soon as possible, it is the voice of the people that has been raised to change the measures from police measures to economic measures as soon as possible, that you, Minister Maric, are the man who will lead Croatia from this crisis, the new economic measures, not the police methods of monitoring and the rest of what Minister Bozinovic is trying to implement. So, Croatia came out of that first phase of the health crisis, now we have a much bigger crisis that is an economic crisis, and I believe that as soon as possible, there must be roschade at the head of the civilian headquarters and that Minister Bozinovic has nothing to do with it, his time has passed in every sense, and we want you to, since you have competences, that you have to lead us out of this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199842	Thank you very much, I ask for a break on behalf of the MOST Club for 10 minutes to consult on the measures that the government has given, and this is a measure that MOST has already proposed and spoken all the time as in the first measures of the government when we asked for a write-off, and not a delay, so the government subsequently accepted this by other measures. So we asked for this to be done, that the moratorium on top, that the government has now accepted although we will have these certain timer remarks, but we will discuss it. But at this point, this isn't enough. We have banks that have huge profits, which have 10 billion kuna per year and it's time for a one-year moratorium on loans and interest. The banks here will remain the only ones who will profit and the banks are the only ones who are solidarity with themselves to have a monopoly. As parliamentary representatives, we have an obligation, and I expect the Croatian government to propose it. MOST has put this proposal in the process and we expect that this government and that all together at last this huge profit that banks have will adopt the Moratory Act on Loans and Obligations, can not only profit in the Republic of the Bank in terms of both economics, as well as in terms of all people in the Republic of Croatia who lose their jobs, who will not be able to repay their obligations. This is what we find a key problem at this point, that this strong measure that other countries are taking, finally, to bring one measure that will finally be a moratorium, one year, to the loans of all and to interest. I expect the minister to have heard this and that we will bring parliamentary representatives of the Moratorium Law on loans and interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199843	Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199844	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199845	Here you go, Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199846	Thank you. This measure proposed, I request a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGE, Independent Representatives, New Politics, because this measure proposed by the Law on the implementation of monetary activities is half a measure and we need to consult on this. Namely, this measure is not sufficient because there is a part of the Implementing Law, in the Implementing Law it is also necessary to amend parts concerning Articles 196 to 203, because part of the exercise, please let me speak, part of the enforcement concerns employers and HZMO. Executive documents submitted directly to employers and HZMO shall be carried out directly in a way that the employer and HZMO directly pay the creditor that part of the salary is paid, and the pensions that can be made. This is not under the jurisdiction of the FINA; it is under the jurisdiction of the employer and the HZMO and it must be resolved by amendments to the Implementing Law. Minister Maric is not in charge of the Executive Law, of course, but today, the Government has not been subject to amendments to the Implementing Law at reading, they have not talked about it. I don't know if they're going to talk about it, but if that doesn't work out then this measure will be unconstitutional, because part of the citizens will be covered by that measure, and part of the citizens will not be covered by that measure. And the other thing that is required is to charge banks a mandatory moratorium on loans without any interest and no charge. Because banks are now offering moratories with interest accounts and therefore charging for solemnisation and the president of the Republic of Croatia urged banks yesterday to offer such moratories without interest. If the president can offer, the government can charge banks with such a measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199847	Thank you very much. In order to save time, do you agree, I must ask you, to give the word to Minister Maric immediately, you said your opinion and this one was recorded, everyone heard. May I give my word to Minister Maric immediately? Here you go. So, Minister Maric will have us, he will have the opening statement in the Final Proposal for the Law on the Completion of the Law on the implementation of the budget implementation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199848	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here is thank you both for understanding and for this adopted appeal and the proposal of the Vice-President of the Assembly, I will today, of course, on this subject which is the subject of our debate, but if you will allow me, given that you remember one opposition club, in the presentation of the first club, the measures proposed that I come periodically to the Croatian Assembly, although I will use any other opportunity to report among you parliamentary representatives, and of course the Croatian public as well as what we do almost on a daily basis, and that is the results of the implementation of certain measures, so if you allow me to go with these in the shortest lines simply that you have this latest available information regarding the nature of economic measures. HZZ regarding the support measure for the preservation of jobs or support for the payout of salaries to workers has so far received 95,000 requests, so far it has been paid for 81,000 entrepreneurs, so a very high percentage and realisation and implementation in the final and payment. So, it's been accepted for 550,000 employees, so far it's been paid for 439,000 totalling 1 billion and 400 million kuna. As I spoke with counterpart Aladrovic by tomorrow, we should most likely complete payments concerning March, after which the April and the same logic requirements and the same dynamics will be applied for and the first two weeks of the 5th month, respectively, will be paid for the month of April. What is also important to mention is the question of the Tax Administration, so far it has been accepted 102.612 requests for a postponement, a release in full or in part, as well as a discriminatory payment of tax or public fees. So the measure that you also see for yourself according to these figures at a really very high stage in terms of this communication, correspondence and ultimately approval, so far 85% of all these requirements have been approved, so 87640 with that I have to say the rest of the, the rest, the good part of them is so-called. double requirements, therefore for various reasons, probably also technical nature, the same entrepreneur, the same person legal his OIB has twice cited. And what you'd also like to say is data from FINA. You are well aware that the third horizontal measure concerning moratories, credit reprogrammes and requests for new credit or crafts by banks will go through the single FINA portal, called measures, to which all those who considered to have met the conditions will, of course, simply apply, FINA will, within the shortest possible time limit, process those requirements and, of course, by adopting or by approving the criteria to implement them, or in terms of and meeting their obligations, focus on business banks. So far with yesterday's 6390 applications have been filed. When we talk about numerical amounts, the maximum amount of claims is for liquid assets loans, the total amount as regards companies 2 billion and 238 million, as regards the turnover of 200 million kunas and the OPGs, somewhere around 3.5 million kunas, so here I will use this opportunity to in some way and express, mainly small, micro and medium-sized entrepreneurs, i.e. in this concreet case and in the OPGs to focus a little bit on this website of FINA, so that of course, we are all safe together, their needs for crafts and liquidity in this period which is absolutely necessary to know that they can do so in a simpler way than they do so so far. Otherwise, FINA seems very much in terms of education of exactly employers, entrepreneurs and all others, so far some 2000 questions are practically almost completely 98% answered. So, these measures when we see them as a result together and with all the measures that are more sectoral, whether we talk about agriculture, tourism, culture, whether we talk about transport or so. have, of course, their own record results. What I mean is, so a few days ago there have also been some international comparisons where we are and how we stand on our relations with EU Member States or the EU as such, so when we try to quantify the fiscal financial effect of these measures, the Republic of Croatia places practically at the top in terms of comparison, I say, with other countries with the fact that we still cannot fully assess what the effect of the demand for loans for liquid crafts of all economic operators at different levels will be. What is also important to mention when I mentioned the EU. You know well, this government has, since the first day of its term of office, stated in its programme itself, because it has estimated that this was absolutely necessary for the Republic of Croatia in these circumstances, not only a supporter and advocate, but ultimately the results and the results are the ones best shown in action, which was the issue of fiscal consolidation, balanced budget, reduction of public debt, repair of credit rating, reduction of interest costs and all that was closely related to it. As such, of course, we remain on the good side of these goals. But also let me say it. So, even during our presidency, so under our stick we launched an initiative both at European level and for the first time it was activated so-called. a delay clause or temporary suspension of the so-called fiscal rules. What I said several times in public, so I can do it again and now here. The deficit and public debt are no longer like such primary variables. The primary variables are how and how in these really challenging times to contribute to the economy that in this, in this short period of time, of course survives, and then give it of course and encourage it to recover as quickly and faster as possible from this crisis and, of course, come out on the path of what we all really want, and that is economic growth and development. This aid, or in some way, I will not only say help but firstly the hand and state and state institutions towards the economy, I think it shows very clearly what level of trust we have given to entrepreneurs, the real sector, the private sector, all the things of additional value in the Republic. We also expect that this trust will not be misused but will be used in the only right and possible way, which is, I think we are all aware or the vast majority fully aware that only solidarity and unity at all levels can enable and make it possible for the Republic of Croatia to go through this crisis as far as possible with smaller scars, and so that the end of the crisis welcomes as much as possible. Now you were talking about sports a little while ago, so you called it a low start in sprint or a high start, say, at the staff and so on, so that as soon as possible you would go in, through real economic recovery and growth. Otherwise, as far as this particular topic is concerned, I think we can agree that the current measures on health care and epidemiological images of the Republic of Croatia also best speak about it, show and classify the Republic of Croatia as a real top, not only among the EU member states but also beyond. I sincerely hope that it also measures on the economic plan with adequate engagement of everyone at different and all instances. I want to thank all of you, all of the clubs in HS this way, for your timely response. I'll repeat, both in the first round of measures and in the second round of measures. The Republic of Croatia, unlike many member states, but I may not refer as much to individual countries as the EU, unlike many that have announced certain measures, so we are still waiting for them when their implementation will take place. We, of course, and I repeat once again, thank you also goes to you for a timely response, measures, the first round of measures announced one day, the second day was in government, the third day was in assembly, the fourth day after the vote and the publication in the National Journal were sublegal acts in office and they were already... Come into effect. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have repeated the same in the second round of these measures. But what we have already announced then was, of course, a look forward to it, and we have said, that not only measures concerning certain types of aid and support towards the economy, but especially and mainly towards citizens should be among other things, our focus in the next and next measures and set of measures and all that we are going to do because we are fully aware of so the macroeconomic images of the Republic of Croatia at this point, the revenues of the state budget, for the first few days, so the first half of the 4th month. Compared to the same period last year, we're somewhere at 1/3 of last year's income. However, we at the Ministry of Finance and the Government expect that such dynamics will come even more under challenge, even in May and June in particular. The data we have available are data on issued accounts or the value of fiscalised accounts that are about 40% lower for all activities in the same period last year. So it's some kind of picture that we're facing today, and that's why it's important that the measures be as focused as possible on the horizontal path towards entrepreneurs and economics but also on the citizens. And on that trail, among other things, the proposal of this law is, therefore, the law on the completion of the law on the implementation of the law on money, otherwise, you know that you have recently voted on it as such and voted on it, because we had to make one harmony with our entry into the foreign exchange exchange exchange exchange exchange rate mechanism II and you know very well that at some point, that's what MP Alexic just said, should at some point become an integral part of the Executive Act, however, as the executive in the third reading, we still have it here in front of us. What do we propose with this law? In order to facilitate the situation of natural persons to whom part of the reception is going to be carried out and to facilitate the negative economic consequences of the epidemic, FIN will stop the implementation of the implementation of the budget in relation to the performance of a natural person during the period of special circumstances. The implementation of the financial implementation will not stop only if the performance is carried out in order to settle the demand for legal child restraint. For other claims as the exercise is carried out in order to settle future instalments by maturity, claims on the basis of outstanding salaries, salary or severance fees, in the case of safeguard measures from criminal proceedings and in the case of enforcement by a specific purpose. If, after the suspension of the implementation of the exercise, a natural person does not have any basis for payment of the basis that the FINA should continue to implement, the FINA will send an account deblocking order to the banks within 10 working days. During this period of special circumstances, the FINA will record the newly received pay bases in the register of the order of payment bases and will act upon them after the end of the special circumstances. During the period of special circumstances, the deadlines prescribed by the Law on the implementation of the budget implementation or by a special law relating to the duration of the blocking of the accounts or the last outstanding payment grounds will not expire, except for the time limit for the transfer of the funds received from the receipt of the payment base in the FINA. Also, this law regulates and halts the flow of tight interest during the period of special circumstances and thus tightening interest will not run during the period of special circumstances. By this law that will be the next three months. With the possibility of an extension of another 3 if these special circumstances persist, they propose measures aimed at facilitating the situation of natural persons whose part of the reception is going to be carried out to facilitate the negative economic consequences resulting from special circumstances resulting from the occurrence of an outbreak of the coronary virus. Otherwise, on the very text of the law, in order not to accidentally forget it, the Legislative Committee tabled a nomotechnical amendment that we immediately considered at the committee's session yesterday, and this way I will conclude that of course, and we accept it. Finally, before I finish and before I hear your replicas and hope to respond successfully, I am glad to hear them every time I hear and in the Croatian Assembly that you verify, valorize and thank, and like all other citizens of the Republic, to all those who have just heard, we can say war terminology on the first line of defense, so to health professionals, doctors, nurses, technicians, epidemiologists, police officers, soldiers, firefighters, so as not to accidentally forget, to all those who are truly in the right sense of the word, on that first line of defense, I will also thank them here and thank all those who work we can say, so also in the back office, background. With military or war dictionaries, there are also defenders and generals, better to say than I can, but also this law, and many of these measures that I have just said, the results, these are people who are doing their job, in HZZ, in FINA, in the Tax Administration, in the Customs Service, in HBOR, in certain ministries or resolutions, so let us also not forget them because in recent days unfortunately, I have to admit that there are certain signals about some sort of division between the private and public sectors again. I'm also taking this opportunity, if you're going to tolerate it or not, but I hope at the very least you're going to hear the arguments, which is that in these circumstances of any kind of division we absolutely don't need, and I want you to point out once again how and among other things we treat the heroic acts that make people on the front line of defense, I'm also repeating once again, that there are a lot of people in the state and public service who do fantastic work and allow all these measures to be implemented. We have now, among other things, repeated one more time, paid compensation almost entirely for the month of March. My colleagues at the IRS are hand-recording and will re-write JOPPD forms in order to free public payments of the same and entrepreneurs for their employees. FINA has drawn up this law as soon as possible, it will drive all measures into operation as soon as the law enters into force or as soon as we can, of course, allow the Croatian Parliament to vote on it, etc. HBOR, HAMAG Bicro, all those who also work with clients and natural persons or private persons in terms of various types of credit lines also, a few days ago unfortunately I had to mention that among other things, there are people who, as well as many of us, have been exposed to certain epidemiological challenges, among others, in self-insulation and even positive for the coronary virus. So I repeat once again the only way out of this crisis is by common approach, solidarity and no divisions between one or another category. Really, we all have to be that. I'd say fully aware. I thank you once again for your attention and, of course, all your suggestions, as well as your suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199849	Thank you, too. We've got 14 replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199850	Thank you very much. Ministers, we, as the MOST Club, proposed immediately in the first measures for entrepreneurs write-off, not a delay, it was subsequently accepted, we were constructive, we accepted other measures, but you and this proposal on moratorium on performance, we also suggested, you are now proposing, we will be constructive, however, here remain uncircumcised those who have the greatest extra profit. It's banks and bankers. They have the highest profit. Billions of kunas get a year and they don't have any now, they don't have any repercussions. However, the fact that they should be solidarity and nothing is lost, a moratorium on loans and interest. That would increase the consumption of our citizens because, moratorium, it wouldn't mean no forgiveness, moratorium for a year. And that's an emergency, that would increase consumption, and you're witnessing it, so the banks don't suck all the money in this one. It's a crisis from our people. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199851	Thank you very much. Would you like to respond? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199852	Thank you very much. Your Honor, my intention is really not to be a spokeswoman in the Croatian Parliament. What I just said in the opening part of the solidarity joint approach of all sides, including banks. I can tell you that from the first day on, the banks are in some way at the table and talked and have come alone with some initiatives on certain details, with regard to the implementation of measures, the best address to address them or to see how and how certain measures they have put into office have obtained results. As for the moratorium itself and some delays in credit obligations, I think it is a good thing that they are not only and that they are not only for entrepreneurs or business entities but also for individuals or citizens. As far as the deadlines are concerned, that's what I said in presenting the first measures, unrelated only to banks, God forbid and let's hope it's only enough for those 3 months, but we all know it will take longer or accordingly we will naturally adapt certain measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199853	Thank you. Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199854	Dear Mr. Minister, solidarity, yes, community, yes, but we want to have a clean bill here, you know, one is now people expect money help, but as much as it will cost, you said it would cost about 65 billion. Please tell me clearly, how much of this you intend to owe here in Croatia to banks, how much outside, why you refuse to take help from the CNB at 0%, so these are key things. And then we'll be satisfied. And the other thing, people write to me massively, where tens of thousands of self-employed, seasonal workers who, two or three months before the crown of the crisis, are out of work, they're hanging in the air, there's no measure for them. We can't let these people die, I'm sorry for this expression. Come on, I suggested helicopter money for all 4,000 kunas, so it won't burden the public debt anything. Let's do it, so we will constructively together, but do it, let's help these people.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199855	Thank you, time. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199856	Thank you very much. Your Honor, here's how much I'm going to get to this first part of your question, and then in other replicas, I'm going to try to move on. So we've also been very clear and communicating, so I'm going to repeat here. The next three months, including the month of April, are our estimates, so that's the principle we've never used before, which is so-called. a zero base budgeting therefore, moving from bottom to top, how much we need for the functioning of the state, the functioning of the state, the health system, the pension system, the welfare system, the overall state and all these measures to help the economy. We estimate 13 to 15 billion kuna a month, for this next 3 months we can round the amount somewhere from about 45 billion kuna. If we add this to it and add something more than 20 million kunas to the maturity of different commitments from previous periods, the need for funding is at levels of around 65 to 70 billion kuna. In the first step, one part of that, of course, we're going to settle down with some revenue that we're going to receive, you heard earlier that it's not exactly an expected great situation, the first step is the focus on the domestic market. I'll explain a little bit later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199857	Thank you. Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199858	Thank you. Dear Minister Maric, I have two questions. First, I already said in the introduction when I asked for a break that this measure is not enough because it is necessary to amend the executive law. Do you have any idea whether the Government will prepare amendments to the Executive Act that would be compatible with these amendments because part of the execution goes directly from the salary, directly from the peace station, does not go through the FINE, but directly the employer and the pension institution pay the trustee the money. That part is not covered by this law. And the second question is, are you going to charge banks with a legal solution with a mandatory offer of moratorium without interest? Because when there's no interest, there's no soloization. And this moratorium that they're offering now is common when it's a normal situation, so they're offering such moratories to citizens, so these moratories that banks offer are nothing special. And I must stress that the banks owe citizens 20 billion kuna for robbing them with unfair loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199859	Thank you. Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199860	Thank you very much. I believe and I know that, among other things, they are working in this area, and you know that at the very beginning of the outbreak of this whole crisis, Bošnjakovic has already issued a kind of guidance and recommendations on how to get along with these implementations. However, one more thing that should also be noted, another thing that should also be noted. We're talking about natural persons here, in the conduct of a cash execution. Let us not forget that, among other things, you have voted to amend this law, we have also allowed tax authorities, specifically the tax administration and customs services to stop with the implementation of enforcement over all legal persons, so not only on natural persons, we are talking about public administrations as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199861	Thank you, too. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199862	Dear Minister, what I said at the stop, I mean it. I think we should change the Civil Protection Act and that you, as Deputy Prime Minister, should be the person who will lead the Republic of Croatia from the crisis, not the police minister, not Minister Bozinovic, that's one thing. Now a few questions, here I see the European Commission's representation in the Republic of Croatia says the state support of EUR 1 billion for Croatian companies has been approved. I wonder if it's support or whether it's a loan or a loan. And if it's a loan, what interest? That's the first question. Second, who pays for these sponsored posts? So this sponsored publication of the European Commission's representation in the Republic of Croatia, where do they get the money in a facebook ad crisis? That's weird to me. The third question, if you can answer everything quickly, is why does the Italian Prime Minister Conte help why he doesn't have a national bank of Italian, and we want to get rid of the CNB?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199863	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199864	Thank you very much. I'm just going to answer these last two questions for a little while. I haven't seen Conte's statement, but I think it is, Prime Minister Conte, but I don't think we're giving up our CNB regardless of our route to EURo. Let's go back to what's really your key question, and I think you're okay, you got it right. Two or three days ago, such news came from the European Commission. I thanked myself and this opportunity I will thank all those of the Ministry of Finance, HBOR and HAMAG who participated in the preparation of these programmes. As soon as possible, we have also developed new programmes to enable additional possibility of credit lines, mainly HBOR, credit lines from our funds. One part of this will naturally be compensated with international financial institutions, sources, the EU and so on, but we are talking about our lines for several segments. One exporting producer, on the other hand, we speak small and medium entrepreneurship in terms of the possibility that they as well as large in the half amount of commercial bank and HBOR are credited and that interest is subsidized Well, at least we can bring these small and medium-sized ones down to HBOR's interest near zero or zero as such. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199865	Thank you very much. Sir, Mr. Mouse.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199866	Thank you. Minister Maric, the most important trust in the government and trust in state institutions is in this crisis. That people already feel and I think as an entrepreneur that you've taken one step, which honestly surprised me and all of us entrepreneurs, and that amount of income you're giving. Of the 95 000 entrepreneurs or craftsmen and the 550,000 that you have paid for and that is within a record time limit that is for, to commend, of course. As we stand in international relations in giving, we said ourselves that we are at the top and I believe that and that citizens must simply know it. What has happened so far in this crisis, and this 3.5. I have to admit, I can commend you both as a financier and as a government that takes care of the finances and most importantly in the state is taking care of the finances. And that's what you've done and shown It's the way it's done to the citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199867	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199868	Thank you, Your Honor, so you have also opened a good topic as much as I have listened and followed your work HS in recent days and here, among other things, the current issue of this confidence which is evident and when you look at the financial effect, fiscal effect, and the measures as well as how much trust has been invested and given to the private sector, therefore to the business sector in the Republic of Croatia. And then, of course, the question of possible abuses of this kind or that kind opens up with itself. Every dialogue, every public appearance, each of us, including of course the media, has one component that means the moral condemnation of those who will eventually or already have abused these measures. But we must also be very clear, the state is a state, has its own laws, has its own institutions and the Labour Act and the Budget Act, if we go to the end and the Penal Code which among other things makes it very clear what it is. Subsidy fraud and let's give everybody together to make it possible for the state And we're working on doing our job. [[Intruder: Thank you...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199869	...nice. Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199870	Thank you very much. At the beginning of Mr. Minister, I would like to begin by saying that the Club of Representatives of the SDP has sent an amendment to this bill in which we are essentially proposing that this 3+3 moratorium extend to 6+6 because we believe that in fact in these 3 months and in any additional 3 months it is not enough to see the effects of this measure and we believe that this should be extended and therefore I appeal to you to consider our proposal until the adoption of the law, we believe that it is good. And I also want to look back at the proposal that we made last week, which was discussed in essence last week about moratorium on loans for a year, and we also think it's very important because banks, banks, can't go uncircumcised in this crisis, this bank doesn't cost anything. In fact, this way, from the moratories of one year, we would give citizens one security and the possibility to stand on their feet within a year, because if it doesn't, then I'm afraid that citizens won't be able to repay those loans in a year, and in fact, these banks are taking even more risks. And when it was a Swiss case, the banks were also giving a moratorium, a three-month proposal. And then the government made a decision about, oh, fixing [[/Intruder: Thank you beautiful, thank you beautiful.]] a year's course, so it all has arguments. [[Intruder: Mr. Minister]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199871	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199872	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As with yours and all other suggestions, the suggestions that have indeed come to the Government's address in recent weeks can be said on their own personal behalf, in my cabinet, so we are neither deaf nor dumb nor blind, so they are all valid as such and suggestions and recommendations and some kind of suggestion, of course it is our responsibility to look at that overall picture. I've already said it a few times, and I'm going to mention it now and I'm going to mention it about this law, and I'm going to say some other things. At some point, we had to draw some sort of timeline. And those 3 months that are now in most laws, practically which have passed through HS stand as special circumstances with the possibility of an extension is today what is in force. As it continues to develop, we still don't have that element for how long and how deep this crisis will take. Of course, God does not allow if certain predictions are fulfilled that this could continue to be measured as such, of course, and adapted, that is what we have been saying from the very beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199873	Thank you very much. Mr. Scibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199874	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. The Honorable Ministers. A large number of citizens contacted me and asked me what was going on with employers and HZMO's performances that are not carried out through FINA. They also asked me from the Agency for the collection of claims through various state and private companies. Here are the citizens who are interested and whether these measures apply to them, if they do not refer to whether or not you will help them in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199875	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199876	Thank you very much. Your Honor. So I can only talk about these performances that are the subject of this law. As I had just responded to Alexic, you yourself have well recognised that the items of such types of conduct and such cases are not subject to the Law on the implementation of the law on monetary assets, but rather to some other law, and mainly to the executive. We will, of course, communicate and public colleagues from the judiciary, as well as about possible measures as such. However, once again, of course, we have shown here very clearly what is in our jurisdiction, whether we are talking about public bodies, so to tax authorities, that the tax authorities will take all the steps they normally take other than the last one, which is the implementation of the exercise as such, and now, of course, as regards the financial agencies themselves, in terms of carrying out the commission on money for the performers of a natural person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199877	Thank you very much. Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199878	Dear Minister Maric. You remember when I told you to run the state like you used to run Agrokor or their finances and to raise loans that you had nowhere to follow from, and then you laughed at me and you said it wasn't true. However, the truth will catch up with you, Mr. Maric, and the truth will catch up with you and you will never be able to escape from it. The only difference between the citizens of Agrokor and our country is that the citizens of Agrokor can cut the veins that you have convinced that the finances are stable, and unfortunately if we don't remove you and similar people from power, the loans you have raised will be paid back by our children and grandchildren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199879	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199880	Thank you. Your Honor, I remember our specific dialogues, not specifically this, I remember your message for Merry Christmas, so you denied it, is that in front of your audience and your voters, it wasn't exactly on the same time that you ever congratulated the minister in this government Christmas, so I remember the different kinds of communication that we had amongst other things. I've also been trying to explain some things to you, as far as I've been successful in that time shows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199881	Mrs. Chikotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199882	Dear Minister Maric. The MOST Club has come forward with its amendment to this Act implementing the budget implementation in the sense that the performance must be suspended for the entire duration of this epidemic and the specific circumstances. It's not enough 3+3 months, it takes a long time, as long as these circumstances last. I am also interested in what is done between legal persons since certain entrepreneurs are now using certain favourable assets for the company's liquidity, whether or not to stop the conduct between legal persons when none have a claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199883	Mr. Minister, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199884	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, here's the answer I've already given to the previous MPs. So, as far as the deadlines themselves are concerned, everything depends on the duration and length of the duration and depth of the crisis itself. And, of course, that measure itself, where luck is at, now I'm going to do it again in that positive way, where I'm lucky we don't have to extend these deadlines. No one happier than you or me or any of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will then mean that we are going towards the end of this whole crisis. At this point, however, it is still as impossible to predict. On the other hand, as far as legal persons are concerned, this is a very important subject and you have well apostrophe, but let us also not ignore the fact that there is a possibility among other things and a situation where we have a healthy legal person who today has claims against other legal persons. If we make it impossible for her to collect her claims, we will directly influence that healthy legal person into trouble and I am not sure that we have done such a useful thing. So this part again clearly repeats, all of what is in our jurisdiction as state authorities very clearly we put it into function in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199885	Thank you, too. Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199886	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Minister Maric. It's not easy for you, all eyes are against you, and we expect you to have amazing solutions, that you might have some kind of print shop so you can print out what we're short of money, so there won't be any simple solutions and there won't be any easy solutions and there'll be painful solutions that we'll have to put up with somehow. We all expect that day after, that day when everything starts together and we expect all of a sudden it's like the crowns weren't there, so it won't be. I just ask you and appeal, don't let this crisis make us all have to endure this crisis, don't let this bank crisis not because we want to destroy them, but that they're the ones who are only going to get rich in this crisis. What we really need, we need a moratorium on loans, on interest so that this crisis doesn't make the bank even richer.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199887	Thank you. Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199888	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I think you've also opened a good topic, and unfortunately I haven't arrived at the opening part of it is that today we all need to be focused on the moment. Today, entrepreneurs, today citizens all have challenges that are in real time, minors from day to day and these measures that we have put into operation are mostly focused on it. But we can't, and we can't, and I can tell you that as far as we're concerned in the government, we don't ignore exactly what you said the day after, but not just the day after, but everything that comes after that. From this situation, from this crisis, if we are all together on the same principles that I was just talking about Croatia can really, perhaps sound too optimistic and too positive, but it can really draw a lot, not just a lesson but useful things. Yesterday I saw one study, citizens said which are strategic economic branches, they put among other things the food industry, so the whole chain, or vertical, from agriculture to the market itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199889	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199890	Dear Ministers and Vice-President of the Government, you pointed out the importance of a consolidated budget that you have achieved with the Government since 2016, and it is actually proven to be what this case is when the state budget, when state finances are of quality and when you have actually achieved that the European Central Bank has taken into account us as a non-euro area member state and thus made it possible to achieve this very currency swap in a way that the European Bank buys out 15 billion kuna and thus actually enables the breath of finance, the state budget to liquidate funds and thus to help both entrepreneurs and citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199891	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199892	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs, thank you both for asking and for commenting, you have well recognised, it is one of those things that we cannot communicate or advertise until it is brought to an end, however, the efforts have been made by the government, especially and personally by the prime minister, but also by the CNB and all of us who have been able to participate in this. And you've done well apostrophe, so even though I don't like to get into those "what if" scenarios, but really in this case, hypothetically to say that Croatia hasn't done these steps in recent years, then this topic would in itself be groundless and any other attempt and any other contact that we have made. No one is saying that this is a challenging time and the challenges ahead of us are huge, I'm talking about numbers and finances now, but I also think that with everything we've done, we've come to this crisis, in this storm we're in, we're much more prepared than we've ever done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199893	Mr. Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199894	Dear Ministers, the question of all issues, how much will be the debt to the GDP after borrowing, we saw Italy, 132% has public debt, the percentage of GDP, we saw the Greek scenario, that's the first question. The second question is the implementation of this on the ground. We've seen what happened to Agrokora and every... From the rescue, we saved Agrokor, we save the country, what it'll look like in the field, I'm afraid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You mentioned the Tax Administration, there was no problem of billions of kuna washed up there, how can you believe in these institutions, and in the end do we still pay 33% of the former state's debt, is that debt still being served and how many thousands of pensions are paid in Serbia?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199895	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199896	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You know for a fact that in this political arena it is almost impossible to hear from someone to say the answer to a question with "I don't know", so here I am not going to completely destroy such a principle, but at this point it is really difficult to predict and predict and predict the height of public debt as well as the height and the fall of GDP as well as some result of the budget. But I can also tell you, so four years in a row, the public debt has been reduced by over 10%. He's a level of something over 70%. All these measures we put in place, which have a direct financial impact, remember, last week, a redistribution of funds was made at the government's session in such a way that the resolutions made a savings of 2 billion and 100 million kunas in order to redistribute specifically for this measure of payment of support for employees, i.e. to preserve jobs and their salaries. In this way we kind of neutralized March, let's call it, further steps must also be made, but we can't expect that in all savings or savings we'll be able to compensate all And of course one particular part of that will be through debt. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199897	Mr. Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199898	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Maric, I will continue with that little war terminology of yours when you commend the first line of defense and that background. I am most afraid of war profiteers in all of this and above all that you have appealed to, the food industry and the green war profiteers that are particularly active in Croatia today with the aim of protecting both the small producer and the small small OPG, but also to protect consumers because what individuals are doing, this green mafia in Croatia, it is time for you to put an end to it and your resort ministry to put an end to it. And at the same time, I'm going to ask you two questions. Since you are now talking about redistributing certain funds from ministries and payments, when can we expect a rebalancing of the state budget? And in particular, we can see who it's taken from, what it's taken from, who it's given to, who it's given to? And secondly, what is particularly important to us in the rural environments of local self-government units, with extremely devastating heavy indices of development, which is the fate of fiscal balancing and will we feel its decline in terms of reducing economic activity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199899	Thank you. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199900	Thank you very much for your questions. The first part is also about one of the previous topics. Each of us in the public space and any knowledge that he has, has the possibility of also using public means of communication, so also with the media support of that moral conviction, but I also repeat again, there are laws, there are institutions, there is a state in the finality that needs to and wants to implement what is to be prevented or reduced to the least possible measure of such, I will call them, unhonorable activities. On the other hand, as regards the budget and the rebalancing, it is voted in the Croatian Parliament, and it is really not something that is in some way disabling the Parliament, but we have opened up the possibility that we can react faster. Everything was made public last week, exactly from every ministry how much savings were made and for which purposes were made. I can tell you in short lines, of those 2 billion and 100 million kuna savings of all the resistors, 90% went for salary support. The rest of you are getting masks, equipment, medical aids, but also fiscal balancing, at 2 o'clock today I have a meeting or telephone conference, the Association of Cities, municipalities and counties, [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] We've issued one clue and we'll explain which direction we'll go on [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] I wish you could promise that everything will be fully compensated, but you can see for yourself the circumstances, [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] But we don't ignore local self-government. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, Mr. Minister.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199901	Mr. Squirt.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199902	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here's the respected minister, I'm going to look back in my replica a little bit on the first part of your presentation where you talked about measures and you pointed out one sentence, you said you were not making a difference between the private sector and the public sector, and I think it's very important in this situation to say and emphasize because it's also important that all of these officers you listed from the Tax Administration, I'm going to add employees of local self-government to workers in the real sector, primarily in production thanks to which life in Croatia didn't stop by the end. But if we're not doing that difference between the private sector and the public sector, then just one question, why are these measures that you predicted, primarily for this private sector, but why, for example, public society couldn't use it? You know that they too have a huge drop in income, so they may also be able to use this minimum amount plus contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199903	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199904	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, it's more or less on the trail of what I was saying, but the primary one I wanted to send was that we don't do division in terms of who and how much contributions between the private and public sector, and I'm here among other things, as a recent and respected representative said, wanted to show both thanks and praise to all those in the public and state sectors who work hard and work their jobs, and I'm sure there's a lot of those of course at the local level. And I repeat again, community and solidarity is a key element. As regards certain criteria for granting this support or other circumstances, it is, of course, individual resolutions, and we all had to draw the line as such at some point, and the focus is that these support should, among other things, be largely directed towards the private sector or, ultimately, the public sector still has a little more opportunities under the given circumstances. But we're going to do a lot of things, and that's how we're going to think about it and see if there's anything else we can do about it. But for now, the criteria are what they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199905	Thank you very much. And at the end of the day, Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199906	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. You mentioned the magic word solidarity, but I think it's a lot to be used at the level of understanding. True solidarity in Croatia should not know either the public or the private sector and has only one direction, it has a direction of those who have more towards those who have less. I know it may not be time yet, we are now fighting the coronary virus, but with the consequences of this situation we will fight for a long time. Will you and do you think that a system of solidarity should be developed or will you leave the directors of banks, pharmaceutical industries, members of HZ administrations and some other public sector companies to pay the same salary for what they do or should be balanced on the principle of solidarity?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199907	Thank you. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199908	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, you have also well recognized this part and the element of solidarity that we advocate not only in terms of even thinking even more in these circumstances is not who has more or less than who can ultimately be given. Today, all of us who in any way can contribute to any form of economic activity and ultimately create a new value in the Republic of Croatia are doing this to help those who, for various reasons, have been disabled, whether the decisions of one or this species are generally due to this whole pandemic or crisis that has found us as such, as the whole global world, that we should be guided throughout the crisis. As for the aftermath and everything that you refer to, of course, I can speak about the public sector and the already mentioned state-owned enterprises of the Republic of Croatia, it is a subject that is very often opened in the HS unfortunately remains. I am a great supporter to agree among other things and there the system there, and not only that section of the pay out of them, but mainly what they contribute and should contribute to economic activity in the Republic of Croatia and update it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199909	Thank you very much. We interrupt for a moment the debate on this law in order to allow for the presentation of a position on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives. Let's go back to the Law now, meaning the final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Act on the implementation of the law on money. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Goran Aleksic, who will speak on behalf of HSU-SNAGA-independent representatives and New Politics Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199911	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. Dear colleague Zrinasic, I welcome you, too, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the law we expected, although we weren't sure it would be proposed. The SNAGA party proposed that the measure be adopted two weeks ago, it proposed to the government of the Republic of Croatia 16 measures in total and among the most important measures is this measure now proposed and which will be believed tomorrow and voted. The measure is very simple, we stop for three months plus three months potentially. I believe that the government of the Republic of Croatia will also extend the measure because it will not improve so quickly, it will take a long time to improve the situation for citizens, protect tight interest, and deblock the accounts of natural persons. It's all settled in that law, but there's that, but only if the execution is carried out through the FINA. And that's okay, through the FINA, it's got my knowledge of about two-thirds of the deal. And one third of the execution goes directly through the employer and HZMO in a way that the employer and HZMO, on the basis of the executive document, directly pay the creditor the amount that must be completed, or the amount prescribed by law as the eligible amount that can be executed. Therefore, this proposal, without amending the Implementing Law, is not satisfactory, but it is also unconstitutional. We cannot discriminate on a part of the citizens unless an amendment to the Executive Act is proposed, and that is the case. 196 to 203, in an analogous way, as the law on the implementation of monetary tasks changes, then we will discriminate on one third of the citizens who have been executed, blocked citizens, because they will not be affected by any change. For this reason, I appeal to Minister Maric, the Honorable Secretary of State, Prime Minister Plenkovic, to prepare for the amendment of the Executive Law to this amendment, and then we will have a complete picture, then we will have the complete changes needed to stop the performance, to stop the calculation of the tight interest and to unblock all citizens except those who unblock themselves cannot because simple alimony is not part of it, crimes are not part of it, etc., what is prescribed to be carried out in any way. Now, if it's gonna happen that the amendment to the executive law, I really don't know, I've been talking about it for days, that's what I was talking about yesterday, that's what I was talking about today. I'm being questioned by the press, I'm talking about it all the time, the citizens come to me inbox every day, not just in the inbox commenting on it publicly on my facebook wall and they're worried that their executive procedures, their performances won't be stopped. We need to change the executive law. In the meantime, about an hour and a half ago, I sent an inquiry to Secretary of State Salapic, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, and asked him if the Minister of Justice would prepare for amendments to the Implementing Law, in an analogous manner to these amendments to the Law on the implementation of monetary powers? I didn't get the answer to this statement. On the other hand, while we were still in the INA building, I asked publicly while Secretary of State Salapic was in the assembly, I asked him publicly if he would change the executive law and in what way, he said he would, but he did not know exactly how. So they're aware that this has to change, and I don't know why it hasn't been solved. Today there was a telephone session of the government of the Republic of Croatia, and there were no proposals for amendments to the Implementing Law. Therefore, I repeat, the Implementing Law must be amended in an analogous way by amending the Implementing Act on money must be amended, otherwise this amendment will be unconstitutional, otherwise this amendment will discriminate against one third of Croatian citizens who are directly executed in the way I have described it. Another important measure proposed by the SNAGA party to which I cannot get a direct answer either from the Minister or from the Ministry of Finance or from any of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is the question, whether you will charge banks with a mandatory moratorium on loans in such a way as not to charge payments, that no interest is charged and that, finally, if the moratorium were to be such, it would not be necessary to even solemnise. That measure is necessary. Yesterday, the president of the Republic of Croatia called the banks, urged them to offer such moratories in which they will not charge anything and in which they will not account for contractual interest. Because what banks are offering right now, it's not unusual, that kind of moratorium where interest is calculated, where solemnisation is paid, because it also has to be provided to collect those rates that are calculated on the basis of this moratorium contract, such moratories are the usual moratorium that allows people to get into a crisis situation. It's nothing unusual. And I repeat once again, the banks robbed Croatian citizens with unfair loans, the unfair currency CHF and unfair interest which robbed not only CHF debtors but the euro and kuna debtors who negotiated loans before 2013. The banks that robbed Croatian citizens, who owe Croatian citizens 20 billion kuna, I repeat, owe Croatian citizens 20 billion kuna. The court has already found that they have negotiated such unfair loans, but everyone has to ask for their own money in private to get that money. So far, only 0.1% of citizens have received that money because there are also so many powerful verdicts based on those court proceedings that have been initiated. All 0.1%, only 20 million kunas returned the banks to Croatian citizens of 20 billion kuna. Are we aware that by closing our eyes to that act of inaction, before that act of keeping money where banks do not willingly give that money but must be forced to go to court, are we aware that by this act, our inaction, we hold the lottery to Croatian banks and thus become complicit in this robbery? We're all accomplices to the robbery, in the fact that banks are holding back after a final court ruling and still money that doesn't belong to them. We're accomplices. And I, who speak, am also an accomplice because I am part of this legislative authority. And in the context that banks owe citizens 20 billion kuna, we have every moral and legal and every other obligation to the banks to give people Moratories offers during this crisis without any interest, no hard interest and no other costs. I repeat, the president of the Republic of Croatia has called on banks to do so. I don't know, maybe even the government of the Republic of Croatia asked the banks to do it that way, but the banks won't do it for a while. That's why banks have to force themselves to do that. So, what we are missing at this time to complete the measures needed to save Croatian citizens, for one thing, the amendment of the executive law, in analogous to the amendments to this law, which is on the agenda, and it is urgent, there is no waiting, it is not a problem because it is already decided to be so, if it is already decided to be so for the purposes of implementing through the FINA, then it must also be for the tasks that employers immediately work directly towards the believer and the Pension Insurance Office directly towards the believer. And another important measure that needs to be implemented, legally ordering banks to offer moratories without any interest and any expenses, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199912	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Grozdana Peric, who will speak for the HDZ club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199913	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Secretary of State. The HDZ Club will, of course, support this amendment to the law that has been proposed, and hence, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the implementation of the implementation of the law on money. What I would like to stress again, and all of it, in fact, to show how many measures there are and how little time this government has taken, and in how little time there are significant measures and steps, which is that the pandemic was declared to us on March 19th and so, not for a full month, this government and we as a Parliament have discussed a series of laws, amendments to laws and how quickly it reacted to everything that is happening in Croatia and also in the world. We must not forget that the crisis headquarters was formed in January, therefore very spotlessly, it was very effective to take everything to make sure that everything that was expected could react in time to both legal and physical persons. And finally, very high quality for March measures and then April measures that have proved to be very, very effective and high-quality. When we look at that period, that now over a billion and 400 million kuna has already been paid, and that in this way all what was expected to happen in both legal and physical persons in and after all, the fear of every man from an uncertain future, then we must say that much has been done in a very, very short time. So when some colleagues or the public, when they say that they are all arrests, then it is something that should be explained very much again that in a short time all the people who work in the system, in the public sector, were as officials, the tenants, and on the other hand, in fact very well responded to all the needs we have in this way both by working from home and in shifts contribute to the effects of this pandemic, and then to the earthquake, to be as small as possible. I would also like to stress that the very quality of the work that has been achieved and primarily consolidated by public finances, we have, in fact, been much more quality and much safer to welcome this crisis and what I have said and the Minister, indeed, when the European community, or our European friends, recognized that we are both a reliable partner and a quality partner and the one who has been carrying out our obligations signed by this country towards this common goal, according to this, has, according to this, just as the Government has shown how much respect for the provisions and all that it has achieved in this period, has actually contributed to us being able to join in the European course mechanism, and thus, and here, amortise all these influences that are automatically resulting in life and the quality of our citizens' lives. This law really affects the part that happens in cash operations, so through FINA, and the assessment of FINA is that this law will make the number of natural persons expected to be deblocked 248 thousand. Of which 237 612 citizens and 10 721 craftsmen. It's a total outstanding amount that will cost more than 18 billion kunas and more than 7 billion kunas of interest. A total of 25.1 billion kuna. The number of natural persons who will remain in the blockade due to these exceptions listed in the law will be about 9 988. So from these, these changes alone will deblock in this option 3+3, or stop with the blockade of over 237 thousand citizens and almost 11 thousand craftsmen. I think this measure is very good, that it will make it possible in this way that many citizens and craftsmen who are blocked, that in this period they can certainly be safer and that they can do better to prepare for what will happen afterwards. I would like to point out once again that it is very important that all these measures are both March and April, and you see the effects that have been achieved, and all those who speak in a way that the banks need to stop this or that, so you must be aware that the banks are also employers of more than 20,000 employees and that in this way must, we must all be aware of the consequences that we will have if such a populist approach is made to such a segment. I must once again point out that with this arrangement that has been reached with the European Bank, the Central Bank, it is so-called. The currency swap, therefore, buys from the Croatian state 15 billion kuna and that is the equivalent of 2 billion euros. It is the law, i.e. the contract that is valid by the end of this year, which thus allowed the introduction of additional liquidity into our financial system, that in this way the existing foreign reserve will not be spent and that we will thus in any way defend the course of our kuna due to the decline of exports and the destroyed tourist season that we are not the culprits but the general state of the world. That's why this credit arrangement is very important, and it wouldn't have happened if we hadn't accessed this particular exchange rate mechanism, if we hadn't met all those preconditions that we had to make with the contract, and we did, that we hadn't consolidated public finances and that we didn't trust our fiscal and monetary system. Therefore, in this way, the public finances have gained great breath and can better prepare for everything that awaits us in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199914	Thank you, too. Now it's the Independent Lists Bridge, and the first one will speak, Mr. Grmoy, and then Mrs. Grmoy. Chicotic, here you go, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199915	Thank you, Vice President. I am shocked after this presentation of a HDZ colleague who, as on several occasions here in the Croatian Parliament, is actually a bank lawyer, financial institutions, it is quite clear and all Croatian citizens know how many banks have actually taken advantage of us in all the crises that have taken place, how well they have gone, and how they have suffered the most unprotected in our society. How many Croatian citizens have been completed, how many have been blocked, how many have been in trouble because of the Swiss, how many will be in trouble. And that you here from this pay phone instead of talking about these people, their fates, you step into the defense of banks. This exposure of yours must be of great concern to us all and shows that this government has no intention of obliging banks to the moratorium on loans and interest, they cannot in this crisis make extra profits over the back of Croatian citizens and that those in this society who are the most unprotected and MOST will strongly oppose it as much as it is wrong for you. You're probably just watching some of your future engagements. You're probably looking at some of your future favourable loans, you're looking at how bankers and banks will look at you, and I'm interested in how Croatian citizens look at me. I want to face them clean after all this. And you continue to protect the banks, and we will protect the Croatian citizens and we will fight for them, and that is why we first talked about them here, and we have begged you not to go on a resurrection break until these legislative proposals are passed, and this is the one we are discussing today, but also the law that we would not pray for the banks, I will not be like Zoran Milanović praying for the banks, I want to be bound by the law of the bank, this is the Croatian state and Croatian statesmen and politicians should not pray for anyone in front of anyone, I answer only to the Croatian people and I will only fight for it, and you continue to fight for the banks, and I hope that Croatian citizens will see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199916	The moratorium on the resources of citizens, the money of citizens, which you are proposing by this 3+3-month bill is simply not complete. We believe that today should have been on the agenda along with this law and the Implementing Law that would provide that those citizens who have the task of taking the HZMO route and those citizens who have the tasks or are blocked, and that the employers are also able to provide them with a moratorium and not 3+3 for all, but as long as this epidemic lasts. We also believe that legislation should have been passed which would have been suspended for a certain period during the course of the epidemic against legal persons without the State's claims. So, two companies if they have mutual claims, and none of them have income, that's not going in that direction right now, but that these companies get a moratorium, means those claims. Because companies are currently getting HZZ money for workers, so pay. And now we actually wanted it not to be done. How will the courts who have taken over part of the work with the public notebooks act? The same isn't laid down by this law. The only thing that's going to be done here is that those FINA's performances will be suspended. That's not enough. So, our pensioners, if their performance is carried out by HZMO, they can't, they can't actually be covered by the moratorium and their resources will be tightened. This way I appeal once again to Minister Bošnjakovic who is late because our citizens are not in the same position. So, those to whom the execution is carried out by FIN, they will now receive 3+3 moratorium under this law, and those to whom the execution is carried out by HZMO, so our pensioners, they continue to do so. You're too late, MOST suggested that with this proposal to apply to the moratorium, it goes before the Easter break so that, therefore, one round of pensions that and the salaries of citizens would actually be granted and excluded by that time, means from this section that goes to a protected account that goes towards their creditors. So, we invite you to call upon the emergency procedure for the government's telephone session to come out with a proposal from the Executive Law and to have those executions carried out by HZMO, those tasks carried out by employers, also be covered by the moratorium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199917	Thank you, too. We had a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Peric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199918	Yes, I'm referring to an article. In 238, where Mr. Grmoya is, he insulted me for mentioning that there are 20,000 employees in the banking system. In this law this government and the proposal of this law are expected to deblock 248,000 individuals, so this is important to my Mr. Grumoja and it is important that all of these are employees of this system.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199919	Mr. Grmoy also requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199920	Dear Vice President, I think you should react that colleague Peric has violated the Rules of Procedure. So I didn't insult her at all, I just repeated what she said, which is that we need to watch out for the banks and not touch the banks because they have 20,000 employees. Those were her words. I told her not to be a bank attorney. I told her to be the lawyer of the most unprotected in our society.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199921	I think so. In 238, he wasn't hurt, but he was at the level of the injury because you went directly, though, you used the word "probably" so I can't argue anything, and I also would if someone said that I was probably of some use, I would also react. In the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you were far easier than in your intervention, I will not be given any injury to the Rules of Procedure now but I will invite Mr. Vucelic, Mr. Vucelic and Lovrinović to represent the club., to present the position of the Living Wall Club and to change Croatia and I will ask my colleague Petrov to replace me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199922	Thank you, Chairman. A colleague from the MOST is wrong to say that Croatia is a Croatian country of citizens. We are under occupation, we are under the occupation of foreign banks and foreign companies, we are not free and therefore a colleague of Grumoja, what you have said more simply because only a few, a handful of people are fighting against such things in this House, but also in the field, and Minister Maric proposes to amend the law on cash only as a smoke screen for the public, as an illusion that something is working positively for this people. What about the claims agencies, what about the performances carried out by employers and HZMOs, teleopers or HRT? What about the bank interest? How long will we have to wait for these laws to change? He calls for solidarity, and I'm sure he'll do his best to get the banks out of this uncircumcised and to continue to lose this year with unreally high profits. And why is that? Because I believe the Minister of Finance is a foreign bank player and foreign interests. Desperate situations cause desperate moves, and so is the situation caused by the COVID-19 virus, which has been declared a global pandemic, and in some countries even a biological war. Extraordinary circumstances have arisen in which all should equally bear financial burdens. In view of the recent earthquake in Zagreb and the surrounding area, it is clear that the normal functioning of most citizens is not possible above all. The amendments to the law provide for 3 months. the moratorium on the implementation of the funds of citizens through the FIN, which has been left out of the name of the law, although we all know that such a method is being implemented on money from all EU Member States only in Croatia and immediately before the adoption of this law, amendments and additions to that same law, which embezzling the elements of the so-called ". European acquis which is binding on EU Member States. The performances as a business and way of making money must be stopped. Instead of a 3-month moratorium. for a part of the citizens, the moratorium should be declared to be responsible for all the purposes of both legal and natural persons, with the prohibition of payment of profits and any other payments which do not have an economic justification for preventing the occurrence of major damages under the criminal responsibility of the responsible person. In the event of a declaration of state of emergency, all the rules shall be read as well as the deadlines for the launch of the enforcement which is generally known to the fact and any court and the FINA may take that into account when the application is made. No one can predict the development of the situation, i.e. the duration of the exceptional circumstances created. Therefore, we require direct assistance to a health system which is not provided by this law on amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the law on cash assets. Nor are any types of payments that can be considered social priorities of particular alimony and pay provided. The suffering in the same social category and the enforcement that the State carries out in criminal proceedings under special rules is definitely unacceptable and unreasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199923	The second part of the exhibition on behalf of the same club will be held by representative Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199924	Dear citizens, this is a proposal for a law on enforcement of the exercise, I am addressing only you. I see there's no one to speak to here in the House anymore. Actually, my sense of staying here is not to speak to MPs. They have their own party policies, I'm talking to you. I will, of course, support this, a bill of law to take as many or as many three months. Moratorium performances, however, it will only be a break for you to keep your nose above the water, meaning 90, but on the 91st day, there will be a stream, an avalanche, and you have to reconcile, and you will sit down the blockades of the performance, and what then? Look, it's not a good suggestion, but I can't say now that I'm against it, you know, in this crisis all that's gonna mean anything to you, of course I'll support it. That's why I'm giving the final solution, dear citizens, the final solution to your problems blocked, listen well. The first step, the state needs to buy from debt-deposit agencies all debts or claims purchased from banks by the law enforcement agencies. The agencies are supposed to have paid these 38 billion kuna claims from banks, that they paid 10 billion kuna. You see, in the second step, the State or the Ministry of Finance, on its behalf, emits a bond on an average, with a maturity of 10 years, what is the average maturity of your debts, and this bond is bought by the HBOR or the Croatian Post Bank to assist the loan approved by the CNB. Of course, bonds can buy citizens because they will bear at least 1%, and you can get 0.1, 0.2% in the bank today. Therefore, respected citizens, you debtors, you blocked, don't complain anymore. But let's solve this problem, which means what is real, professionally based, scientific and which we can do within a few months. What's the consequence, concrete to you? Well, the key thing is that you don't want 100 grand kuna, as much as you owe now, is not to pay at the end of 100 thousand kuna, but to pay no more than 40 thousand kuna, why? Because I said that debt enforcement agencies got a huge discount from banks, and now they're making you pay 100% of what you owe. Well, that's not how it works. You see, therefore, you will need at the end of the story to pay no more than 40% of your real debt. We will do everything in front of the party to change Croatia that the scene disappears once and for all from the debt enforcement agency, they will no longer exist, simply will not exist. And neither will you exist as a notion of blocked citizens, who do not exist, such a term does not exist in EU countries, it is a civil shame. So did people know by now that they could handle it this way? Well, they probably did, but why didn't they solve it? So you see here in the Parliament that there are strong bank advocates, the CNB, the HDZ, the SDP, you see, the SDP the other day declares that the euro needs to be introduced today, you know? What's the difference between them in the economy? No, not at all. They protect each other because they've performed their functions, you know what, and there's no bread, dear citizens, you know? So where's the solution? Well, the solution is neither in me nor in any stranger, but in you are dear citizens, so there are 230 thousand of you who suffer, who you don't know, we can't, I try, every day you write to me, I answer as much as I can, the solution is in you. But how? So go to the election, dear people. If 230 thousand of you come out and give voice to those and those who want to solve your problem, you'll be free people within three months, sleep peacefully. No more of your troubles. So that's the question of your actions, if you want to be further tortured, oppressed by the people of the party, and you vote for them, then forgive me, then there's something there, that's another problem, then it's no longer a financial problem and economics. But if you decide to get rid of this, then we'll get rid of it, but people can't solve it, they won't bring you into this situation. In this order, on this sick political system where the government is at the top of the pyramid, not the Parliament, I invite you. I am very optimistic, you see that we have our economic experts from the party Change Croatia, I offer on behalf of them only solutions, I do not criticise. I invite you, if you've decided to settle this, let's go to the polls. In three months, we'll settle it, dear citizens, with full responsibility, enthusiasm, and means, by optimism, I'm telling you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199925	The next club of representatives who applied for the debate is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives Zeljko Glasovic and Zlatko Hasanbegovic. The representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak for them, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199926	Dear Vice President, thank you. Dear Secretary of State, there are no more ministers. Well, he had more important things to do, it doesn't matter if part of the debate was there and at least we had a partial opportunity to tell him what we wanted. Here, I'm reading yesterday's Financial Times, and here it says that, that countries, these most important countries, from China, Japan, Germany, the United States, the UK, Italy and Spain, are going to be hit with a GDP drop of up to 7%, here, Spain as the highest. I hear our Minister Bozino, pardon Maric just now who says we have a third downfall. Did I get that right? In 14 days a third. So, I don't think we're doing very well and that this economic crisis, that in no country in the world will unfortunately reflect in the way it will reflect in Croatia, in no country in the world. None. The reason is all the wrong policies of the Croatian government, absolutely all the wrong policies because we rely on only one sector, only tourism and what is not in tourism directly, it is based on tourism, hospitality, more food production, and when this tourism is completely ruined, and here, it is completely ruined at present, we have no booking, no arrivals, there is no, so tourism does not exist, and then we are as a country failed financially and I just don't know if the citizens are aware of it, whether or not the Government is aware of this, and to take advantage of this crisis as a reminder for the future that we have to be self-sufficient. That we must take care of agriculture. And about industrial production and that in every way possible we have to work to develop it. Now we have that other problem that the minister didn't answer when he was here, and I asked him nicely, and I'm going to ask you State Secretary a question, so maybe later take the opportunity and answer it. Does the EU help us? Does it help? No, I don't. She only lends us money now. I just commented on that paid, paid ad of the European Commission's representation in Croatia, where it stands as, Croatia received support of EUR 2 billion. So why don't they write the truth? She got 2 billion credits, the possibility of a loan, maybe interest is something more favourable, maybe they're partly subsidized, all right, but let's call things by name. When someone gives you a loan, he owes you because you have to pay him back. The EU does not give us money now, even though we pay EU membership fees, although we are the EU market, but the EU lends us money that we will have to pay with interest. Point. Here, I think Mr. Shucker will agree with me. That may be favourable or more favourable, but it's true and it needs to be said. But speaking of these billions, I've said it the third time, I'll say it again. We now have one $540 billion fund, 440 can't count because it's only for the Eurozone, we have this program for sure whether, which is $100 billion and from that program, we can pinch something, but again from that 100, out of that 100 billion dollars, it's not for the Republic of Croatia, it's just one piece of small, small piece where money will be borrowed. And now another question that the minister didn't answer. Why do Italians help these days why do they not have their own national bank of Italian but depend on the European Bank? And they're really helping, here, look, you have both here and... You have texts, I'll take a look at you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they'd like to have their own people's bank if they could, as colleagues commented, well, that we can borrow ourselves. Why not? Why can America get money out of everything? I know someone's gonna say they're big, we're small. But maybe they're the guys, and we're not? We're not, we're just gonna act like servants and it's not gonna go any better. And then here I have to refer to the debate of my HDZ colleague who defended the banking sector here. I'm trying to figure out what you're trying to say. I didn't have to admit it. And in today's time to defend, defend, in any way try to justify that grampility and, and, and the haughtiness of bankers and banks really doesn't make sense, really doesn't make sense. So, unfortunately, banks are neither in 2008. When there was an economic crisis, neither today bear the burden of this crisis nor today. And it will end this year when we'll all, when the whole system will suffer with extra big profits. And this is a chance to squeeze them because they're not Croatian banks, they're all foreign-owned banks. We don't have 10% of Croatian banks, we don't have 10%. HPB is the largest Croatian bank, I think that now that it has taken, when the acquisition of the Adriatic Bank in Sibenik was that there are no 8% share in the banking market. And that's it. So we don't have Croatian banks. And press them, this is an opportunity. And as for those who have done it, well, thank God that someone has finally come to think of someone who needs to protect you in this crisis. That's what we were talking about, that's what Croatian sovereigns were talking about, and I'm glad that measure is being taken. We weren't the only ones talking, but we talked and we'll talk. And here I'm going to mention another extremely important group of people at risk, and there's a lot of people at risk, but here's another very important one, and these are all those people who were supposed to be in a few days or they were already supposed to be seasonal workers. It's about decades, I wouldn't want to make a mistake, maybe hundreds of thousands of people who were seasonal workers every year. What about them? They can't be permanent seasons anymore. How are you gonna... These people? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Something helped, but it's not enough. So we have thousands and thousands of people, young men, girls, who wanted to be and earn now in this period, and not power. Yeah, let's sort of find some measure, see who worked last year, who's the planier this year, I don't know, here's your job at the ministry to do it, to do it. And in the end, she's an extremely important thing. Enough of Minister Bozinovic's fear. That's enough. So, by police measures, by repression, we won't get out of the crisis. And today, we're not facing a health crisis alone, but it's even more important the crisis we're facing, the economic crisis. Because Croatians and Croats will soon have nothing to eat, and I believe that the ministry's leadership should be roschaded, pardoned, at the head of the civilian headquarters, and that Minister Maric, as an economist, is leading the civilian headquarters and may try to get the Republic of Croatia out of the economic crisis. We don't need police repression. We need economic recovery. And I'll say it again, that and according to... that we are in one of the worst situations in the world, the worst. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We may be healthy ok, we have managed to make some measures here, but we are economical, I repeat, perhaps the top of the world, meaning the top of the economic disaster that we are in because the Republic of Croatia is ultimately acting as one EU tourist region because we are not thinking sovereignly, we are not thinking as Croatian sovereigns are constantly saying, and that is that the Croatian state must be self-sufficient, otherwise in every crisis, and this one is, this is going to happen, the collapse of the system as is happening right now. And I have already said about the EU and I will repeat, we do not have European solidarity, we have European selfishness, the EU as a community of states is not working, borders are closed, each defends in its own way, and financial assistance is not coming. And here's another question for you, a very important question. What about all those famous EU funds, the money coming from the EU funds that we were supposed to get, which are agreed, is that suspended, is that going? I hear from people who are involved in the implementation of European projects that problems have arisen. Here's a question. So, it means if there were problems that some money that was made and agreed was not realized, it's not coming, that some tenders have been postponed. So I'm interested in seeing a little bit of review of the critical EU, which is with European funds, if they work, is that the only thing we had from the EU, nothing more than that. If you have failed completely, then I think we need to talk seriously about the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199927	The GLAS representative club also applied for participation in the debate. In their name will speak representative Anka Dark Tarritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199928	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. He's in front of us from this set of so-called. the financial laws of the draft law supplementing the implementing law on money funds which we will support in the GLAS Club. But this is one law and a debate at this time of the crown and all the debates that are being held whether the laws that are related to the crown or the laws that are so free at this time, but at some point they can become something else, we cannot look beyond the framework in which we are. So the crown or COVID-19 is something that at this point is really the topic that the state is dealing with and decided to deal with in a different way and all the countries of the world. We all follow how many people are infected, how many people are dead, how it happens in some countries. The countries have decided in different ways and in different models, the Republic of Croatia decided on a model first, indeed human health and life in the first place, behind which it decided with certain economic measures, behind which it saw that there were a number of other measures to be taken. One of the different models that we decided on, the model of self-insulation, the way the unknown disease struggled in the 19th century, a lot of countries, especially the Mediterranean countries where we belong too. One country that opted for a different model is Sweden and that model in Sweden, they've made analyses, they've made a very rough decision to see how many dead people are in that model and everything else and how many opportunities we have to see in the media that are coming, but also something you have a chance to see, they stand behind their government. Sweden could have opted for that model if the Swedishs live there because you have a different way and concepts at all, we need to know that the Mediterranean country, we, I've already cited the examples I use, so you ask when the time is self-insulation, it seems to us that it takes a very long time. It doesn't take so long, even though I feel like I'm talking about some other time now, that all that Corona talk has gone on long ago. It wasn't long ago, it was recently, so it's all in context time is recently. And during that isolation or staying home, I've had an excellent example of a little girl for 4.5 years who's been asked what she's missing. She said I miss dancing, so some activity she has, where there's some company. They also miss kindergarten, so social contact and everything else and says I miss Grandma and did. We are a people who love to hang out, where our family is extremely important to us, where we love when we don't see each other for a long time, we shake hands, we hug and everything else, so that this relationship to the crown in our country, I appreciate that he couldn't have trusted really the experts, he could have been just like this. How did the government begin with the measures that were supposed to be? The first measures we call those measures in March when she wanted to send a message you weren't left, we have something unknown, you know when something unknown is what's most dangerous in your life when you meet a stranger and a foreigner, so we're all careful, but that message was not left, you'll be taken care of. Then that set of measures that I called in one debate, so I'm going to use and now, April 1, 0 was a set of measures that might have been in March but now it's someone else, but it's what it is. We've come to this set of April 1, 0 measures and I kind of think that even in April there should be another set of measures 2, 0 or in that set will be individual. Today we discussed the Sport Act where we will allow people who are in sports to survive and to experience the day after. At this point what's important, it's important to try that day after which we'll come after that, it seems to me that for a while we'll never function like before the crown, but we'll be careful to keep as many people on our feet as possible. There is no ideal solution, nor can there be an ideal solution, but in these conditions it is important that those who therefore executive power, which is at this moment the Government, does not live in the tower of rabies but listen. And when someone has something to say and when someone has a different way of thinking and everything else, that we don't call it pulsism, that we don't shake hands and say it's them, but that it's really important to listen to it and come up with suggestions that are somehow the most acceptable. What's characteristic in the political sense, everything about the crown is as follows, you come before the opposition with a set of measures different, the opposition says what about that thought, but accepts them, aware of the moment. The opposition when it gives amendments by ruling, and at this point I think of HDZ, acts exactly as it did before. So, the corona in a political sense has changed that the opposition is saying something, something suggests, speaks from this pay phone, speaks in writing, makes some suggestions, through these proposals says install them, let them be yours. And indeed ruling HDZ has not changed anything. When the amendment of the opposition comes, it is immediately rejected because it is an amendment to the opposition, when the opposition points to something, then it is said, yes, political points are collected, so it is populist, anyway. There is a provision here in this law, says Article 25b. for the period of special circumstances referred to in Article 25a. This law does not run tight interest. At this point, one of the serious stories is a start for a loan. So, the bank gets in right away, they report right away, and they offer to postpone the loan, they report right away. Why? Because, first of all, you have to do the solemnization and nothing has changed here, and then you have interest, depending on how much credit you have and how much time you still have. That's right. It has nothing to do with the crown. That's the way it is. And otherwise, you can ask for your loan delay, and otherwise, if you're looking for circumstances, the bank will tell you that you have to solemnize because there are different conditions, and in that time you're on interest, and when you get the terms and conditions and you're on that loan again, you've got to have plus everything and more plus interest, so you're going to be assessing what's better for you or not. For that, it's not, it has nothing to do with the crown. That's how it works. If we want to, if we're aware of the Corona and Covida-19 which at this point is really a world topic, it's not about Europe, it's not about South Europe, it's not about I don't know Asia, it's about the world. If you really want something done, the only thing I'm reading in these terms that can be done is by law to clearly define the deadline if you're going into a loan delay for that time you don't have interest. There is no other way if you want to help or leave those who opted for a loan or have them with the fact that of course you have housing loans, but you have these others, so leave them at the mercy of the banks. It seems to me that it is not time to stay, to leave anyone at this time for the mercy and mercy of any institution, therefore neither to leave at the mercy of the banks. So what in that set of April, that second set that isn't in this package, would be very good to think about. It would be very good to find a solution here because the banks have no intention and have no idea to do it, as far as I can tell, you don't need soloization, that's the greatest I can say, but those interest they live on won't give up, under what conditions and how it should be considered. For the end, I'll just say one sentence. We're reading what's going on in the world. Mrs. Merkel recently went out and said that Germany could endure these conditions for 11 to 12 weeks, that she would be in trouble behind it. The key question is how long can Croatia withstand such conditions and such a story in relation to the economy and how much normal functioning of the economy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199929	The HDS, HSLS and HDSB representatives' club also applied for participation in the debate on their behalf will be spoke by representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199930	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Sometimes I get the impression that we got out of a crisis when I listen to some debate here in the assembly. But we didn't. And what is the fact that the situation and what is quite said is whether or not the proposals are being listened to, I somehow have the impression that a lot of the proposals spoken about are either heard or may not be listened to as proposals but have already been considered before, so it is actually one similar thinking both by the opposition and by the position that is later found in the legislative proposal that comes before us by representatives in the Croatian Parliament. This is also the situation with these changes to the law that the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Club will, of course, support because it is also doing one step towards facilitating life at a time of crisis, a very large number of Croatian citizens. Every such proposal, in the end, is very nice to find the majority support of all representatives in the Croatian Parliament and most clubs in the Croatian Parliament. Looking at the situation in general and so on in general then we could now say that let's let's get people all worked out here in this way a little while ago as counterpart Mrak Taritash says, it doesn't last that long, just that it seems to us that it's very long and it's really not possible in such a short time to change everything, but no one can argue that the government and all of them are following the elements that do this work by the executive authority, that they don't do the work, that they don't follow the events and that they don't react could be said quite spotlessly. And I'm sure there will come a lot more of these laws going towards man, going towards entrepreneurs at the very least because if we look at things realistic then let's be aware of those old sayings, when a man is healthy he has 1001 wishes, and when he's sick just 1, let's put that in front of us and let's not ask ourselves what's most important, it's most important to preserve the health of people, it's important to keep the maximum of Croatian citizens to be as few victims as possible of this monster that has hit the whole world. In second place, what the government has also set up is also the National Headquarters, helping to preserve jobs, helping the economy, and this law goes towards helping people to survive. So we move like that once you could say normal dynamics, health and life and existence. And in Step 3, Step 4, what has already been announced these days and what we have already had the opportunity to read about it in the media, announced that a package of measures is being prepared that after the crisis is over, how to revitalise the economy, which will be our priorities. Now, if we don't forget quickly, and we tend to forget quickly what has happened now, then I believe we will be wise enough all together to know a little more realistic and better to set priorities and hear what Croatian citizens say in various polls, which is most important and what we need to pay particular attention to. One part of the people will kind of take a break from these amendments to the law, but I'm going to ask myself the same question here, I haven't gone deep enough into that subject, but we people on the side suggest and point to some crazy and illogicality in our laws. When someone is blocked for one, two, three, five, ten years, and the one who blocked it fails to charge for nothing, then the question arises, why does the blockade serve anymore? And then we have a situation where those other laws get you into a situation where I don't know it's a possible absolute age after one to ten years, someone can break into and steal money in a robbery, and spend it, and you can't charge it anymore, and it'll be obsolete. And someone that I don't know, got into financial difficulties, got in trouble with his job, and with health I don't know what, he got into a situation where he had to stay that debt until his death and stay behind later. And then you happen to have those situations that local self-government eventually inherits property from someone, of course inherits that debt but doesn't have to pay that debt just to the amount of property that was inherited because heirs of course give up such property so they don't get that debt. So my message is also, in some ways, an application for thinking that in the executive law when it will go, it really is edifying and considering a model of limitations because it only creates problems and those who have blocked and cannot charge those who are blocked and cannot pay, and it doesn't make any sense, and it doesn't make any sense if we look at everything else. For killing antiquity, there's no statute of limitations for debt. It doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense, and it's definitely something to think about, of course it's not the subject of this amendment to the law, but one thinking out loud about what I'm being told about. So, I absolutely support this proposal to amend the law and let other amendments to the law that will benefit or interest Croatian citizens go as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199931	The club of HNS representatives has applied for participation in the debate on their behalf will be spoken by MP Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199932	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Very short, summed up. I will not take advantage of this item of the agenda and talk about everything else that should be done yet or we have already had the opportunity through various points of the agenda and in the end line of the statement of view always give their proposals. So here we are working on the Law on the implementation of the implementation of the financial assets and, in particular, what is most important is that during the period of these special circumstances, the implementation of the implementation of the budget will stop with respect to the executives of the natural person, so there are no more executions, something that is actually already in force, because it came a few weeks ago from a press release that they are about to stop. So, I don't think it's been in the past few weeks or any execution done, and that's what we leave behind and put it under the legal framework. Exceptions are good, so if we talk about who this does not apply to where the tasks will be carried out on child restraint, on other claims when they are carried out to settle future meals by maturity in the rule of other abstentions, then unpaid salaries, severances and all other charges, measures on insurance from criminal proceedings, and in the case of a specific intention, therefore, when something that does not belong to the perpetrator is managed by him alone, such as the housing reserve account and the like. So absolutely justified exceptions and no one else will actually go anymore, that doesn't mean that those who can account don't need to be paid, though. Thank God anyone who can, of course, should pay for them. But what's important, which within 10 days if you can see you're not falling under these exceptions, and you're blocked, your account will be unblocked. A colleague mentioned nearly 250,000 such cases in less than 238,000 of them. What is also the same exception for all the tasks that have been carried out where they are now standing on FINI and those 60 days to the power of power, they will continue to be implemented and will be paid to the executives and in fact what is important is that deadlines don't run in order to actually mean some stand-up style as regards deadlines, and besides, for the funds that have been seized they don't go tight interest, so I think the absolute execution will continue to apply so that something doesn't disrupt the order of the creditors for payment, but it won't be implemented and that's the essence of this law. I think that, as a rule, everyone only agrees, although this opportunity is used to get even more of what might be the point in the proposals, and we have room for these proposals at other points. Of course, the HNS Club will support this and we think that this is a logical and indicative measure that is already half in force, but that good especially in terms of those unblocked who had a problem because they had no cards but unblocked for a protected account they had to go to the banks and stand in ranks eventually exposed to potential contagion to raise and their own, that their protective assets and that's actually with this after 10 days, and I believe even shorter when it is seen that people do not fall under the exceptions that we have stated will unblock their accounts and be able to use them normally and I believe that this is something that is common sense. I thank you again and the HNS will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199933	On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, MPs Davor Bernardic and representative Boris Lalovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199934	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to begin by reminding that the SDP has played a very active, constructive role since the beginning of the crisis, especially when proposals for protection of the economy, jobs are at stake. So far, we have sent over 20 draft laws that have not yet come to the vote in the Croatian Parliament, and it is about protecting the most vulnerable citizens of Croatia. One of them, one of those laws that we have referred to in the procedure, the SDP proposal for a law that is on the agenda is also the Law on suspending the exercise that we are discussing in another form today. Just when citizens have been blocked in the SDP for two years, we have been offering a solution to the issue of blocked ones, over 240,000 of them, and today unfortunately we are still discussing amendments to this law with a deadline of only 3 months. First of all, I'm glad the government is back, but unfortunately, with two weeks of delay, she has listened to another proposal, a motion to suspend her performance. But we feel that it is necessary to put an end to the exercise for a year, not just for 3 months, as proposed by the ruling one. And that is why we have submitted the amendment to make life easier for the blocked citizens for the next year because it is quite certain that this crisis will last longer in economic terms. What we still hold to be done is necessary for the government to press the banks to follow the CNB's instructions and to issue card cards for the ATM in order to raise free funds from the account without physical contact under these special circumstances in the coronary crisis. It's not just help, it's not just a measure of help, it's primarily security, and then a health issue. I'll show you this opportunity both in this law and in one paradox. This law provides that during delays, tight interest rates do not run and that is fine. That's what I support, and that's ultimately our proposal. This is about people who simply are unable to fulfil their obligations and need help. But on the other hand, those who have fulfilled their obligations in orderly now have to ask for a postponement of the loan, you do not want to help them, they will have to pay interest payments to banks for the whole time. You see, gentlemen, that's not right. As we have delayed the execution, so we must also introduce a moratorium on loans, under the same conditions for all. No interest for 12 months. But the real question is being asked today. Why is the government afraid to provide a moratorium on loans to citizens for a year? Especially since that moratorium on loans doesn't cost the state itself anything. The question is, who are they protecting? And everyone knows who they're protecting. It is clear that the rulings protect the interests of the banks and it is clear that even in these difficult times, they protect the extra profits of banks against the citizens especially in the conditions of this crisis. And that's something that's inadmissible. It is unacceptable for certain banks to offer the citizens a postponement of interest-paying loans and to force them into additional costs in the form of soloisation so that the delay costs them more than half their monthly war. We've already set an example, but it should be repeated. The man who worked in the restaurant had lost his job, had just begun to pay off the housing loan because the government was late in the reaction he had lost his job, of course because of the crisis and the war was slightly larger than 3,000 kuna a month. The bank offered him a 6-month moratorium, but as interest is paid at the start of the loan payments, he will have to pay 2,000 kuna monthly and 12,000 kuna for a period of 6 months for the next 6 months, with 18.000 kuna left for him to pay off the base loan. And my question, is that a delay? Is a six-month delay that he has to pay another 12,000 kuna. No, it's not a delay, it's an extra profit on someone else's accident. Therefore, I call on the President of the Croatian Parliament, who is not here today, to put our proposal on loans tomorrow, and I urge all MPs in the Croatian Parliament to support this proposal, which is in the interest of citizens, to support the SDP's law on the proposal to postpone the loan for a year because it is one of the concrete ways that we can help people who are in crisis at this moment. The government simply must not be blind to the fact that banks earn extra profits on citizens during the crisis. I am warning that while the government has partly helped the economy through some SDP proposals, it has taken a step to help the economy, the government has so far made no decision on the aid of the most vulnerable citizens. It has not made a decision to help unemployed, permanent seasons, social assistance users, pensioners who have the lowest pensions, and more and more in Croatia, more than 700 thousand social assistance users, more than 240 thousand blocked, 400 thousand citizens with income below the poverty threshold, most of them pensioners, over 5500 permanent seasons and 100 thousand unemployed who do not receive any remuneration from the stock exchange. Therefore, we in SDP will continue to insist on the protection allowance of 750 kuna per month for pensioners with small pensions and social benefits, as we will insist on benefits for unemployed and permanent seasons of half, or total minimum wage. The SDP will continue to fight, worry and take care of the existentially most vulnerable groups of citizens in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199935	The presentation will be continued by representative Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199936	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, however, technically one question, I mean, I don't know if this is what the minister was talking about this morning, perhaps, the Secretary of State eventually sublime it, or to explain, employers will still be obliged to pay the protected part of the salary in the same way. So he's, for example, paying the salary of 3/4 salaries, and up to 4 289 kuna, the employer pays the rent on the protected part, and they're one quarter, or the rest goes to the regular account, that part of it. The impact of these changes should be entered, so it will not affect the reduction of the eye, there are around 643 thousand accounts that citizens have as protected accounts. It is very important here that citizens will now receive money both on a regular basis and on a protected part of it. It's very important for citizens not to close protected accounts. Why? Because this measure lasts 3 months. After 3 months, there will be a return to this regular part of the account so that there will be no confusion for people to close protected accounts, to receive payments only on a regular basis because this is just a short-term measure of 3 months. So there won't be a payment again later, because that bill will be blocked again after three months. So this is a clear warning to citizens and to those who pay these salaries, that this is a temporary measure, and that protected bills are not to be closed, thinking that it's all over now because they're going to get payments on both sides. I don't know if I'm right, but I mean, I'm asking another government here to make it clear that there would be no confusion as to these payments, since these measures will be carried out on regular accounts in the second half of July, meaning for the payment of salaries or pensions or wages from the 6th month, when it is paid in July, then that part of the implementation will be re-delivered. So that the citizens there are very careful and certainly, I agree, I hope that the government will regulate it with its own measures so that there is no confusion that these protected accounts are now closed and that all these payments, once those blockades start, that the citizens at least the part that was protected them, that is how they stay that part. Here, it's about this piece of technical for protected accounts that unfortunately still has about 640 grand. But it seems to me that in this part of the law, you can finally say, here are the delays and bankruptcys. You tell me, it's very important, because now about the economy, they're being stopped by the whole part of the relationship, so it's very clear what to say about bankruptcy. What about bankruptcy, which with FINA or the entire system when there are no certain payments, FINA must also stop the bankruptcy process from opening up on some commercial companies for the entire period. So here it's very clear that, on the side of the government, about bankruptcy, what's going to happen in this whole period, that FINA won't open up bankruptcy, or it'll all be frozen by this law. I don't know, so I'm asking if it covers this law, because this law is lex specialis about this part. Here, so please, perhaps in some final address related to this part of the protected account and to this part of the bankruptcy, I think there's a lot of such concrete suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199937	The club of representatives of the Independent Youth List has applied for debate. On their behalf will be a representative of the Scibol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199938	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, and your MPs. The club Independent Youth List supports all the laws that will help Croatian citizens in any way, and this law is certainly one of these laws. Today we can see how important state intervention is, so those representatives of liberal economic ideas, too, support state intervention when it is necessary and it is certainly nice to see. I've spoken many times in the Chamber of Executive Law because the executions today are chains, so the executions are chains in the new modern age of slavery. Debt slavery is a slavery faced by many of our citizens and many times we insisted on making an executive law that would solve this problem. The attempt was, however, the new Executive Law apparently from the government did not have an idea when he did not come to the third reading, what he should look like. It is known that the Executive Law has favored certain law firms, that the Executive Law has favored certain structures within public notebooks, therefore there has been a lot of structure in this food chain, but in the end they have suffered, who but the debtors, and ultimately, the creditors who have been hard to charge. The citizens asked me what was going on with employers and HZMO, and it's obvious that this law does not regulate that area, so that's a question that enters into the power of law. Therefore, I now appeal to the Minister of Justice to take these citizens into account, as they are then discriminated against. Also, agencies that buy out claims also carry out tasks not through FINA but through certain companies. In this segment and in this context, the Executive Association is one association that is most active in the matter of performance, each Thursday were before the Government, giving their ideas to improve the executive law, and I thank them this way. In Croatia, there are indeed those associations that make a great effort towards this and often and beyond some of their capabilities, and are not financed from the state budget, the Executive Association is not funded from the state budget, and a lot of contributions are made to the Croatian community and Croatian society. The most important part of the project is teleoperators and banks. I'm reading today that some banks and teleopers donate to hospitals and it's certainly commendable to donate hospitals, but it's all minor and it's all on one voluntary level. Why minor? Minorally because their profits are counted in billions of kunas and when they donate 100,000 kunas, 200,000 kunas, 500,000 kunas are more minor amounts for them because in Croatia the system has so far affected them. So we didn't have a system that would include their solidarity. I believe that today, more than ever, there is a need for the solidarity of banks and teleoperators that amount to billions of kunas from the Republic of Croatia. So I propose a tax of solidarity, a tax of solidarity that would include financial institutions, primarily banks, and then teleoperators who are mostly creditors of Croatian citizens' debts. If that's not how new money doesn't come in, what's gonna happen? So all these laws require a large amount of money coming from the state budget. How will the Minister of Finance get those funds? They'll come in a way they'll be in charge. And then what happens in the future? In the future, there will be an end to the whole country. And what's the purpose of the whole state? The country's implementation is privatisation of state resources, privatisation of the public sector. So there will be a privatisation of the health system, there will be a privatisation of the education system, there will be privatisation of certain other segments, and everything will fall into the hands of those private financial institutions that owed our country. Therefore, I would also suggest that the role of the CNB, i.e. under these conditions, be considered. monetary authorities, because we saw for example the United States and Great Britain that their central banks have become much more involved in stimulating the economy and economy through the so-called so-called economy. primary emissions. Some say it's a printing of money, it's a printing press that's going to create hyperinflation. No, it's a superficial way of explaining it and that thesis is being placed, right, the economic currents that have different thoughts. So there's more economic currents, and it's normal to have different thoughts on that. But inflation would not be created as it was not created in the United States or in the UK. Of course, money is being put into circulation in these circumstances, not crazy about getting some major hyperinflation. We also see today that our currency is weak, the kuna is weak, and by that, someone even said today, credit rates are growing. However, this does not mean that monetary authorities should not stimulate the economy and exports through the decline of the kuna, so it simply means that the currency clause should be abolished and when the currency clause is abolished then there will be no situation for credit wars to Croatian citizens. Therefore, the CNB should put into circulation so-called optics. not credit money, it's money that's not charged with interest, and that way it would simply help the entire financial system because it's known to those who know the monetary economy, they know that the total money mass that's in the system is much less than the total debt. So, of course, that debt is then passed on to citizens, to businesses, to craftsmen. So no credit money released by the central bank would have negative effects if it was released regulated. Bank tax would go in the form of a tax on financial transactions, many countries have such a tax. Croatia has avoided such a tax due to the competitiveness of the domestic capital market, but today the times where private banks earn the most are needed to take one part of the crisis on their backs, not to shift the whole crisis to those who earn the least, which are small craftsmen, small entrepreneurs. Here's what we see is that there's an intensity to cut wages in the public sector as well. My opinion is that it will not be done much in such a way, but that only those who make the most money should contribute most to society in these circumstances because in many situations, and this is known, the system has often affected them. So the CNB did not prevent these contaminated and toxic loans that were issued in the form of Swiss francs, the CNB did not prevent the illegal business of Raiffeisen credit cooperatives, many things the CNB did not prevent, we also see by writing “National” that these were also quantities, huge amounts of money being laundered through Croatian banks i.e. the foreign banks operating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, all of which the CNB released, and today is the time to put an end to it and to send a clear message to the CNB that it cannot work that way. The CNB has reduced its recent and mandatory reserve to banks, thus liberating one capital, banks now have much greater credit potential, so that's where they went hand in hand, so we expect some of them in return because a simple moratorium on loans isn't enough and they don't lose any profits at all. 'Cause they're gonna charge later. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199939	HSS and Democrats representatives' club reported for discussion. Representative Davor Vlaovic will speak for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199940	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Here, on behalf of the HSS Club and the Democrats, a few words about the Law on the implementation of the law on money funds. First, this bill is good, however, we needed ic in the first package of measures of the government of the Republic of Croatia because even then we asked the HSS to stop, to stop the action. He is late with the measures, he is late and with this law, and I will remind him that on February 6th, the association of the wood processing sector sent a letter to the prime minister and the government to take urgent action to start business problems because the customers started cancelling their orders and threatened to collapse production and reduce the number of jobs, reacted late and the result was more than 20,000 newly unemployed in HZZ records. They are not to blame for their employer canceling their working relationship and the question is how many of those 20,000 have been blocked that have come into trouble so that they can't pay their dues not by their own fault. It is good that through the measures of April it is possible for employers to return them to work and use measures, so my question here to the secretary of state is whether you have the information as to how many employers have used this possibility, how many of these 20,000 new unemployed have been returned to work and that companies have used them to receive personal income or how many have been blocked in the meantime and sure that this measure is good, but it is only for 2/3 of our citizens who, where the implementation is carried out through the financial agency, but which is with the rest 1/3, which is with those not covered by this law and why they did not go in the package right now and here in the debate and in the third reading Executive Law to solve the problems of execution and blockades, because they also need to live and buy supplies and they should pay their obligations, so that I am surely asked from the HSS to come in third reading and to implement the law and to help all citizens and to help them with the emergency. It is certainly that those companies that used the measures from April and we are in the interest of HSS to preserve every job in the Republic and that these funds, have started to pay off, but there are problems from the field, and it has been pointed out here several times that better quality control of the dedicated spending of these funds is needed and that it needs to find models that do not abuse these measures and more times is mentioned here, so I will also because most of the seasonal workers and many of them are out of work are from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema and must find a model as well as help them because they also need to live. We at HSS are asking that also legal order a moratorium on loans because this model as it is now that banks themselves agree with citizens and employers regulate mutual relations is at the expense of citizens to collect their loans, so the banks remain the same profit and even greater profits in some cases, and citizens are increased debt and remains the problem, and perhaps to enter the blockade. We must not, and it is not good that the representatives of the ruling bank shields here, because in those crisis years and 2008 and 2009, they won profits in the Republic of Croatia and in 2019 over 6 billion, and surely this moratorium on the repayment of loans will not drive them into losses, only maybe they will gain less profit than they expected and should not question jobs in these companies. The problem should also be highlighted that some public companies, including INA-MOL, are firing business workers in Sisak-Moslavina County, in the Bjelovar-Belogor County these days, and that the ruling ones have not responded. Surely INA is not in such trouble that she would have to fire the workers, and they are fired under the exception of a technological surplus. Well, I think that government also needs to react, as needs to be seen in a way that helps other economic sectors. Yesterday, I told Minister Beros that it was necessary to organise the production of protective equipment for our health system in the Republic of Croatia, that this could be done by our entrepreneurs and that this could certainly be resolved in the Republic of Croatia, not to be saved by donation and purchase of goods in China or around the world, because we see that most of the countries are closing in their borders, that their national interests are to protect their citizens from some kind of cooperation at the level of Europe or the world. That's why the Republic of Croatia must think that way, and above all, protect jobs in the Republic of Croatia. Minister Maric was good, so here today and these days he skillfully dribbled with a ball between the ministries because every minister would like to be a savior of his sector and asked for even more funds from his portfolio, but they did not allow him to stick to the basket, to paint himself and that he is here than any minister to present his law which is good for us to see the ministers in the assembly, obviously the campaign for elections is on the move, but it is important that we go to some solutions that will improve the status and quality of our fellow citizens' lives and allow business for our companies, and what we are particularly interested in, everyone now remembers agriculture, food production and the need to have sufficient food production for our population, so when it is so, it should be observed that it is no help but investment in food production, investment in the food industry, investment, in the preservation of jobs and thus the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. These days, the Commissioner for Agriculture of the European Commission said that it offers European members, agriculture ministers 6 billion euros in additional to send their proposals for measures to support rural development, resuscitation of agricultural production, to hear what is being done by our Government, by our minister, whether or not we are late because the fact is that this year's budget of the Ministry of Agriculture has been reduced, is the fact that our amendment for the payment of 600 million kuna to agricultural producers for direct payments is being reduced from that opportunity to 100% that they could be paid. The fact is, in Europe, 30 more people have responded. 11 last year and paid 468m euros to farmers because of the difficult circumstances in the business of agricultural producers in Europe, we could not use this package, but I am asking what we are doing to invest in food production in the Republic of Croatia, how much each OPG, each trade or d.o.o. which deals with agricultural food production to obtain direct funds such as Germany and some other countries, so that they directly financially help their production, their producers? Because since no direct salary has been paid by the end of this year, associations have requested agricultural producers to do so by April 15th. The minister said she'd start at the end of April, I don't know if it started, but the fact is that most of the crop has already been done, practically agricultural producers have been pushed back into the hands of traders who have raised prices and fertilisers and plant protection and spare parts, and yet this agricultural producer can't be specific with such prices to the European producer, and that they've got the means to start a new production and that they've gone with the advance payment of repromaterials, they'd certainly have cheaper production, here we are constantly late, constantly wondering how others can do it, and we can't. If we're interested in food production, then we need to see in the long term what kind of food production we need, in what amount, in what way it is financed and how it's possible not for 3.6 months, but for 3 or 5 years, that's the only way we can revive agricultural production and surely have a big problem now because of weather problems. Here's yesterday and yesterday the cold again in Slavonia, and I hear it's been in other regions and again fruit species have been injured and there will certainly be great damage, the question of whether or not it will be possible to help our agricultural producers and make up for those damages. It's probably possible. It's just a matter of political will. And the key question is what our government is doing on this plan, what the Minister of Agriculture is doing, they're not here these days, and the food producers and our agricultural producers, our peasants are expecting answers from us. It should be our national interest and our question is whether it's really our national interest because we don't see it that way from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199941	Representative Miro Bulj reported for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199942	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here after the debates of colleagues, clubs, after asking the minister through replicas and by looking for breaks, here is a clear conclusion. Here's MOST of independent lists proposed all this before the first measures themselves. And this was supposed to be what was supposed to be first and to dissipate citizens immediately with any pressure in a way to create a moratorium, but this moratorium was on top of me because I don't think it's enough for three months, I think it's enough after the crisis a year to increase consumption then and that people are spending money in that period and not doing their accounts. Also, he says, he said one very important thing to the citizens, a thing. The citizens call me, and we are aware that the extra profit in the EU has the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia. And if anyone has milked the citizens' money, it's the banks. It's about billions, it's about 500, 600 fees. These commissions, fees, which not all of them, which are 4 billion kuna per year, were won only on the basis of these fees. Therefore, the banks are, they are means of financial security, stable, full money and they are not represented by anything, nothing presents to them that the government of the Republic of Croatia's law proposes, we propose it at the MOST club, that the moratorium on loans and interest for a year. It's a minimum. For what? Because at this point in time to leave it outside the law, I don't know if the government can do it to the banks, if they can even mention it to the government that they're going to pass the law, but we, the secretary of state, laugh, I think I've guessed, I don't know if it's even a word to the bankers, the owners of foreign banks, whether Prime Minister Plenkovic, Minister Maric or Secretary of State will say that the Croatian Parliament will pass that law is our obligation. Our obligation in this crisis is to increase spending rather than to make banks when people lose their jobs, workers, farmers when it comes to how people survive, to make banks chew that money up to themselves, and they're full of money. And the money laundering, the one that happened at the Zagreb bank, we won't even talk. At this point, what the government can propose to HS is minimal, and that's what we and I are looking for as a representative, and so is my club, a moratorium on loans and interest. Now and now, we're already late. It was supposed to be a respectable secretary yesterday. That's what I asked Minister Maric through the replica, but he skillfully avoided the answer. Is he afraid of bankers? First of all, Croatian politics put them in foreign hands, our Croatian banks in foreign hands, when they were recapitalised by billions and now foreign owners of these banks do not want to solidarity with the people. The only thing banks are solidarity with themselves. And what the CNB is letting go of money, the exchange rate to preserve the course, whether the CNB is actually going to get involved in this whole story even stronger, is now a question of how much the banks are going to profit. I think at this point that we are the only thing we can do as parliamentary representatives, and that's our obligation, to protect our farmer who's on loan, our loan worker, our cashier who's going to lose his job, our employee who works in INA, has been fired and under credit is, all of us, all of us citizens, we don't know what's going to happen, and it's nothing for the banks if these banks don't give anything, the moratorium they don't still remain anunities and obligations that citizens will have. So the banks would absolutely even be more radical than our citizens of the bank, all of which made it possible for them to have Croatian politics. So minimum you have to, Secretary of State, I'd like a clear answer, will we bring you to propose a bill in this House on moratorium on loans and interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199943	Thank you. The replica was reported by a representative of the Shkybol.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199944	Here, Mr. Bull, I agree with your debate. I've noticed that banks and teleopers donate some money to hospitals now, I'm interested in your opinion, do they do that to the PR or do they do it for honest motives? Because my opinion if they were to do it out of sincere motives then they wouldn't mind systematically regulating that solidarity so that they could contribute to the economy, to entrepreneurs, to the health system. But I have the impression that they're doing it purely for some marketing trick and for some better public reputation that's been disrupted these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199945	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199946	Well, of course they only do it for the PR, and the only thing we can do is not depend on our citizens to deal and talk inside the bank because the virus will be transmitted sooner, our citizens need to talk to them, that's the first. Secondly, all of their PR is a huge profit, we know it's about tens of billions of kunas a year, and they would have to say for themselves that the moratorium, but our government has no courage but is sending citizens, regardless of the health crisis, so make a deal with the bankers. So what do we have to deal with? So HS can vote it, it is the legitimate law of HS if they operate in the Croatian state and the biggest profit Croatian banks have in the Republic of Croatia, extra profit. They snuck everything out of the pockets of Croatian citizens, which allowed them to make a policy through privatisation and, of course, through courtship to Croatian banks. And so far, the secretary of state and the minister have avoided this response whether or not to propose a bill by the House on Moratorium on loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199947	Thank you. Representative Gordan Maras reported for participation in the debate, since he has no loss of speech. Hrvoja Zekanovic's representative is also not present, he reported for participation by losing his right to speak. Representative Shuker has applied for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199948	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of HS, Mr. Secretary of State. Perhaps everything would be good for us if we had listened to the opening statement of the finance minister a little more carefully this morning or at noon. He tried to take a complete picture of this crisis and what this crisis primarily means to the state budget, to public finances. Well, for the first time, maybe you could even hear that now no one's talking about the deficit, public debt, but simply some other things have been given priority in thinking and the Ministry of Finance and the Government. Another thing I want to say, which is what the minister said in the opening section that this law refers to the Agency's performance. And we that we discussed this law and that we realized that this part that covers this law is okay, and that other stories are simply going to have to happen eventually because the story about business banks, their behavior, who's the servant of business banks, who's not the servant of business banks, I think it's deplaced, but obviously it fits some. So we all forget that the government, with its first and second measures, is currently covering more than 580,000 employees of the Republic of Croatia who, unfortunately, would have been most of them if it hadn't been for government measures, would have run out of work, would have run out of income. Then what would happen? The performance was never something I can say, it was popular, but you had a situation when it showed how many unpaid payments were made in the state budget, and then it was said why no executions were carried out, why no blockages of accounts were made. You have such discussions in this House. So, the debates that depend on who it fits at which point I'm going to tell the truth, I might have been a little surprised by the bank's reaction. I expected, given their liquidity and their condition, which is far, far better than it was 10 years ago, that they would react much more flexiblely and better to this crisis. However, they behave as they behave, and the government, as it has reacted in all these measures in time, will react here as well. But what we can look at, and here, is what anyone discussed a month and a half ago and two months ago, which is that we simply have to take a stand. He who regularly works and receives regularly should perform his duties regularly. Those who have lost their regular income due to this crisis or, in the case of craftsmen or legal persons, could not carry out their activities, were reacted to by the government. So we can't see that everyone needs to get everything, but simply those who function normally at this point, it's better for them to carry out their duties. It is clearly mentioned here that the agency will not charge tight interest during this period of 3 months. Well, that agency, let's say, that the executions are now being done by someone else and not by the agency, the question is, could the government pass a law like this? Or if you could spend it. And I remember here is the debate about this agency, which many thought was simply to be eliminated, that Croatia should not. Let us also take a look at the discussions that were held in this High House when the decision was made on the establishment of demand - buying agencies. It is known exactly how these agencies operate, and then part of the MPs said that they must certainly be controlled by HANFA and I will conclude that. Both HANFA and CNB have made certain decisions on non-payment of profits, in fact, banning profits, and this is a clear indication that institutions that control the non-banking sector and the banking sector are very careful about what is going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199949	Representative Alexic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199950	Thank you. Dear colleague Shuker, I'm glad you agree that the banks have not responded well to this situation. I'm glad we're thinking the same thing. I think that in a similar way the Ministry of Finance is also considering and that, at some point, they will react unless the banks themselves offer moratories in accordance with the current situation, which is truly inconceivable for both businesses and citizens. I am also glad that you noticed that Minister Maric said some things, among other things, that it is necessary to amend the Executive Law, that it is not within his jurisdiction. I'm just sorry that the government of the Republic of Croatia wasn't a little co-ordinated in that whole situation because if it had been coordinated, then those two laws would be at the hearing of both of them today, so at the same time, one of them would come in sooner, one of them would be unblocked sooner, and the other would be unblocked later, if everything was okay, and hopefully everything would be okay. I hope Minister Bosnjakovic prepares for amendments to the Executive Act, otherwise he will discriminate against citizens who are being stripped of salaries and pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199951	Thank you. Replication response, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199952	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Alexic, I simply said what I think, that banks are the ones who have a clear picture of all their clients and know who in this situation is seriously hurt, who is less hurt and who is going to be around. So the logical thing is if you have some kind of analysis and analysis that you're acting like one. Or it's that system I'm going to go hard so I have room to step back later. I would like it to be so because, in the end, both Croatian citizens and Croatian businesses will profit from it, and the very indication that the government, as a legislator of the executive law, has given up voting on, after the second reading than that law goes into third reading, clearly shows that the government also believes that some solutions that have been highlighted and here in the debate are not the most adequate and that they should be repaired, perhaps this crisis will make us more and more expensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199953	A representative of the Dark-Taritash responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199954	Thank you very much. I'll refer to your first part of the exposure. You know, the siren's call is very dangerous. There is no one of us who will not resist that no matter what topic we are talking about, we do not stress any other matter, so in your debate, you have touched the banks, as we have touched the banks, and that is obviously the problem that needs to be solved. What's the best way? We'll see, but surely you're on to the fact that the banks reacted as if the coronaryvirus had nothing to do with them. Coronavirus has to do with everything, we read all the laws that we read, we read in the context of the changes that were, and therefore it's no wonder that we who talked about the banks and you who referred to them individually, we refer because we expect that someone will hear us and that someone will think about it, and that someone will still offer citizens a more acceptable solution than what the banks have just said and the way they have responded.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199955	Replication response, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199956	Obviously we didn't understand each other. I wasn't talking about why you were talking about banks. To talk about performances, not to mention those who market with money, so to speak, is simply impossible. But I said in the context that you should always talk about the law being proposed, so if he's good or I disagree with something, okay, that's it, but you need to upgrade it for these, right? I'm just saying, and I really hope that's how it's gonna be, that banks are gonna relax some things after a while, because it's not a joke. I guess now it's clear to all of us even after these indicators that the minister made this morning, in fact today, how much it's going to work on the revenue and expenditure side of the budget and how much it's going to cost everything and the other thing that I think is even very important right now, maybe even more important is what kind of start we're going to have when things are as relaxed as they are. 'Cause if we get off on the wrong foot, that's it, I'm more afraid of it, 'cause this is all we're gonna be in charge of right now, so it'll be easier to solve if we have Good start. [[Intruder: Thank you, time's up.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199957	Representative Peric asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199958	Dear colleagues, when we observe the structure of the citizens themselves and their level of debt, then with the state of 31.12.2019, the citizens of up to 10,000 kuna were 105,567, and 31.12.'18, 122.888. We see that 17,000 citizens have reduced, decreased the total number of debtors, and when we see how much the debt is to the banks, they owed with the end of '19, 33.1 billion kuna. It's an extremely large, huge amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199959	Thank you. Replication response, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199960	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Peric, it might be good for the Ministry of Finance or the CNB or someone to make one plate or review who owes for what, because under these civil debts some debts are very interesting. Then you should see how and by what criteria, that's the CNB thing are the banks of those citizens let them be in charge. Therefore, some things should be well reviewed and well assessed and the state as a social state must always stand behind its citizens who have found themselves on the sidelines of society not by their own fault and therefore can be left without an apartment or without something else, there simply the state must always react, but not all the blockades are the same and not all the duties are the same, therefore we need to look at these things differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199961	Scibol's representative has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199962	Thank you. Mr. Shuker, you have not touched in your debate that this law will not protect all citizens. So those citizens whose performances are carried out through employers or HZMO means they won't be protected. And since it did not come parallel to the Croatian Parliament and the Executive Law that would protect all groups of citizens simply the Government in this way indirectly for discrimination. So you can't send such a message to the perpetrators, that they have the impression that there's some discrimination, it's not good, it's just not good. And I'm interested that you think that at this point, the government is proposing a single solidarity tax to banks and thus that banks and systematically help Croatian economies and all those groups that are at risk?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199963	Replication response, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199964	I made it clear that this law regulates the tasks of the agencies. And by doing so, I have clearly responded to this part of what you're talking about. Because if it were for other purposes, then it would probably be mentioned in the law. So I made that clear in my debate. And I, no, no, I know exactly what I was discussing and what I wanted to say in my debate. It's perfectly clear and crystal clear, and I've simply apostropheed that I'm going to have to behave differently, and if the government does, I've also said that if the government needs to react, we're going to react to some things. And look, the introduction of taxes every new tax, the one who has a cash register in his hands will always charge that tax from the Croatian state and Croatian citizens. So don't ask for some kind of rescue, the government has room in some other things, but I say...
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199965	Thank you. Representative Pernar reported on the individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199966	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that this whole system of performance has been controversial and problematic for many years. So the problem with the performance in Croatia didn't appear yesterday, today or 3 months ago. The problem with the performance in Croatia lasts all from the HDZ government and Jadranka Kosor, who, by amending the Executive Law, has tripled the number of perpetrators overnight and since then, their agony has actually lasted to this day. This government does not have a permanent solution in terms of solving the problem of secondary costs, it has not significantly reduced and the additional costs of the FINA, the public notary, etc. continue to go to a small amount of debt high costs. And what exactly did the government do? That's a question that every one of you has to ask. She didn't question the system at all, she just said during some of these special measures we're going to unblock the citizens. And at that time, what happens to the work, do interest rates rest? No, interest is still accounted for. What about the work that's going on? What you say will be sent further, but the public notebooks will keep them, keep them with them. And what happens when these quarantine measures go through, what? So again, the public notebooks will put them on the table and send them to collect. What have we solved, ladies and gentlemen? I can tell you what we've solved and I'll be honest with you. My guess is that until the next parliamentary elections, the government will postpone this situation with performances and give people a glimpse of some peaceful and stable financial life. As soon as the election passes, all these performances that were put into the moratorium and those that were in the public notebooks will begin to fall out of a closet like a skeleton, as the people say. What does translation mean that this solution that the government has is good, but for what is good? It's good for the deadline, while it lasts, great, lasts, we solved the problem. Yeah, but what if the measurements stop? You haven't thought about it, you don't think about it because if you were thinking about it, it would have been settled a long time ago, and it hasn't. And you know how I know that? I know because since you've only entered this assembly HDZ is telling us we're going to change the executive law, we're going to change the executive law, we're going to change it, we're going to do it, we're going to change it. And what happened in practice? In practice, it happened that all executions continued at an old pace and nothing essentially changed. But for one category, people have changed. For one category of people, things have changed. I remember, there was a fellow Scybola sitting behind me, he asked to amend the law or to make that law on foreign creditors who had done business without the approval of the CNB, without the approval of the CNB. And what did the government do? Yes, she made the law, and she said now that she's going to be like those raids all of Austria's RBA cooperatives are going to be at peace. However, our government is a puppet, and when the European Court's letter arrived that this law cannot work, the government says it goes on. Ha, there goes the errands. What does that mean for all those debtors who have loans in RBA cooperatives? In translation, that means you intend to disintegrate them all. But you know how? Not in winter, not in winter, it's like the change is what Shucker hears we're not going to depose you now in the 12th, 1st month, but don't worry about what happens as soon as you go out in the winter, we're taking you out on all fours, it's a message this government is sending us, it's not serious solutions, it's not permanent solutions and ultimately that they're good solutions, that we have a good system that works, so people wouldn't run from the Republic. It's the strongest sign that something deep doesn't work in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199967	The club of representatives of HSU, SNAGA, independent representatives and New Politics has come to the conclusion. In their name will be the representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199968	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President HS, the esteemed Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. To conclude, this law is insufficient, this law solves only the situation of the citizens who perform FINA, until it solves the situation of the citizens carried out by the employer and HZMO directly by charging and paying the creditors. I therefore expect the Ministry of Justice to prepare an amendment to the executive law to which this would be settled. Without these changes, it will be unconstitutional because they will cover a part of the citizens, and part of the citizens will not be included. So, simple amendments to the executive law must be implemented and I hope they will be implemented. I have to point out another interesting situation. Even part of the citizens now, who now, who are now executing FINA, can get in trouble because when the FINA stops doing the job, they may begin to be carried out by an employer or an HZMO. Why? Because there are a number of situations where the believer had several debtors, so one debtor handed over to the FINA, and the other employer and employer, and HZMO then gave him the alternative variant. That's the kind of situation he's in. There's a situation where people used to even pay in two places until they regulated the whole thing. We've got plenty of gaps, we've got plenty of unfavourable legal solutions that allow creditors to be over-granted, let's say so. That's why we need to change the Implementing Law, and we need to do it urgently. So, next week immediately, the Government of the Republic of Croatia must prepare amendments to the Executive Act and next week we must vote and resolve it. Without it, I repeat, these changes will be unconstitutional, it will be discriminatory towards the part of the citizens. The second thing I said today is the next measure that is necessary. And this first measure was proposed by the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this second measure I am about to say is the SNAGA proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and this is a measure of mandatory moratorium on loans without interest and without cost accounting. And I agree that this measure should be applied to non-proliferation citizens, but also to non-proliferation companies. So, inexplicable. I can pay my loan, I don't need that measure, but there are people who need that measure now in this situation and people like that should then be allowed to get a moratorium. What's indifference? As soon as someone's incapacitated at this point, he's invulnerable. So maybe he was creditworthy at the start of the loan payment, now he's incapacitated because he can't pay off his credit because he doesn't belong to that category that has to be executed to have a full payment of the war and such a category of consumers of natural persons, craftsmen, businesses, anyone, such a category is not creditworthy at this time and such a category should be provided by a moratorium without interest. I said, the reputation of banks is currently at zero, if it's not down. It is zero because even though someone is saying that I and the likes of me speak populist phrases, it is not true, on the contrary, it is populist to take advantage of banks that have robbed Croatian citizens and anyone who leads them is helping them in that robber, I say and will argue. The banks robbed Croatian citizens on unfair loans for 20 billion kuna in total and must pay them back. Such banks must not now be allowed to continue to charge payments to those same debtors. I must say, the banks had 17 billion kuna in 2004, the liquidity of 10 million kuna. The banks today have 59 billion kuna capital and 44 billion kuna liquidity, of which 34 billion kuna is an excess of liquidity. This has been achieved among other things by unfair business, so part of that profit has been achieved unfairly, part of that profit has been robbed by Croatian citizens and part of that profit must be returned to Croatian citizens. In the meantime, order a moratorium to pay off loans without interest, at no cost to all non-insolvent citizens and non-insolvent companies, but also a moratorium to leasing carriers who are now unable to operate and will be left without their means of transport. President Zoran Milanovic also ordered this yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199969	This concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199970	We move on to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Act on the implementation of the law on money, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 924. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, MP Ivan Lovrinović, the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall, and we change Croatia, and MP Miro Bulj. The review of the amendments is divided into benches, please the proposing's representative to show about the amendments submitted, this is the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, the Honorable Zdravko Zrinašić. First of all, on the first amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. The amendment is accepted as nomotechnically.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199972	It becomes an integral part of the law. The second amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and let's change Croatia to art. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199973	The amendment is not accepted. Otherwise, the amendment proposes suspending the mandate to extend to micro-enterprises. It's in the article itself. 25.a., it is prescribed that the gerenity will stop carrying out the audit on cash compared to the natural person’s perpetrators. The very notion of natural persons in this sense of this law includes consumers and natural persons engaged in registered activities and engaged in free professions, professions. As regards these activities in the Register of taxpayers, the income from the independent activity covered by this law is achieved by 115,229 entrepreneurs, according to DZS data and the activities employ slightly more than 215,000 workers. With regard to restrictions on legal persons, as you know in the first and second package of measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia relating to the 214 session, teaching measures have also been adopted which have been operationalised by economic aid to business entities, mainly through measure... focus on job conservation, liquidity assurance and through measures introduced by amendments to tax regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199974	On behalf of the club, respected representative Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199975	Your Honor, Secretary of State. You have refused to amend the Living Wall in which we propose an extension of the circle of performers to which the delay in the implementation of the implementation of the budget and to micro-entrepreneurs is defined by the Accounting Act. In particular, this applies to those micro entrepreneurs who provide catering and tourist services. You're asking us to support the emergency laws, and at the same time you don't respect our participation in them. This leads me to think that all this or one big show for the public or to present measures that are just illusory and flawed to make it seem like you're doing something with the primary goal of protecting banks and large capital. I remind you that micro-entrepreneurs employ 255,000 workers and make a significant share of the total economy. We're looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199976	The 3rd amendment is the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199977	The amendment is not accepted. Duration of special circumstances in art. 2. The final proposal of the Law is in line with the deadlines laid down in the tax rules, which are amended in the first and second package of measures, and established on the basis of an assessment of the duration of the outbreak itself in the Republic of Croatia, with the possibility of extending that period to an additional three months, if the epidemic persists longer than anticipated or due to the possible economic consequences of that epidemic. After these deadlines, if the situation so requires, the Government will, in accordance with the movement of the real situation on the ground, bring or propose further appropriate measures and solutions to mitigate the consequences of this epidemic, with the aim of helping the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as long as the specific circumstances are indeed going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199978	On behalf of the SDP, the respected representative Grgic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199979	Your Honor, Secretary of State. The proposed amendment provides for an extension of the specific circumstances referred to in Article. 25th of this law in another three months. Since the applicant considers that the intended effects of this law cannot be achieved within three months as provided for by the legislator. The amendment also provides that the Government of the Republic of Croatia may extend the deadline set out in Article 1 of this article for an additional 6 months and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199980	The 4th amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199981	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is otherwise proposed to delete all the deadlines laid down in respect of the duration of the special circumstances in relation to this law and it is also concluded that, in this respect, the suspension of the application must be determined at least for the entire time until the specific circumstances are indeed in place. Deleting the above circumstances, or the whole article. 2. All deadlines for the duration of the special circumstances in relation to this law would be completely deleted, thereby eradicating the deadlines for suspending the exercise which creates complete legal uncertainty in respect of the time-application of the rules. As far as the deadlines are concerned, I would like to remind as regards the SDP amendment that the deadlines are in line with the other regulations that have been amended in the context of this epidemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199982	On behalf of the Representatives' Club, the Honorable representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199983	...we asked you to put these laws on the table before Easter so that our most endangered citizens would have a peaceful and peaceful Easter. You didn't do that, we gave our law to ask for a moratorium on loans and interest, you still haven't referred it to the procedure, and this is the law you're dealing with with with on purpose only part of the problem. Do not be in the service of banks and bankers, serve the Croatian people, we will continue to fight for Croatian citizens, for those who are most vulnerable, for those who are done, for the blocked, for the unemployed. I urge you to put the MOST law under discussion, and since you refused this amendment, I think it's time you stop serving banks, stop thinking about how banks and bankers will view you. This is the state of the Croatian people and is the only one to be served by the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199984	Thank you very much. 5. The amendment is the representative of Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199985	The amendment shall not be accepted with the reasons given at the same time as for the amendment of SDP No 924/2.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199986	Dear Representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199987	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'm very sorry that you refused this good party amendment to change Croatia which is in the interest of all blocked citizens, to remind you, there are about 230,000 of them we multiply it by at least three family members so about 650,000 people are life-threatening. They're not just threatened by this crisis, so they've been threatened for years, no one cares about these people, no one cares about the government, no one cares about this government. They have built a food chain in this country involving banks, bankers, from law offices, public notebooks, FINA, a debt relief agency is a long food chain. Well, as we are dear citizens, I address you, we have suggested in this amendment that the moratorium for you should not be blocked for three months but a year. Why a year? Well, my people will be three months, that means something to you, three months. But when three months pass, you'll be reunited with an avalanche of all obligations. How do these people do, don't worry about it. So, please, on their behalf, please, I'm going to do whatever it takes as a citizen to do this, and I'm going to help you professionally, for a year, make it a moratorium. Why? And in those years let's implement a final solution for the blocked that I've already repeated here, it's the biggest problem of the Republic of Croatia, 650,000 people are life-threatening, it's a civilizational shame, the notion of "blocked citizens" doesn't exist in the EU, and we're in the EU, and this model I'm going to explain here in the next, by the second amendment I've submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199988	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199989	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199990	Thank you. The 6th Amendment is the amendment of MP Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199991	Amendment, the amendment is not accepted. The reason for not accepting the amendment is the same as for the SDP amendment and the esteemed representative Lovrinovic. I would just repeat, if the situation requires it, the government will surely, in accordance with the real situation, bring or propose further appropriate measures and solutions to mitigate the consequences of this epidemic, with the aim of helping the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as long as the special circumstances are indeed going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199992	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199993	Thank you very much. The government won't do anything unless we show solidarity to the MPs, and it's time for the council to make decisions, not for the government to play. We'll take three months. However, what does 3 months of moratorium mean for the purpose? Well, a year's moratorium is minimal, and you're aware that this crisis will continue. You would once again point out to the citizens, first of all, is the government hearing it poorly, because the benefits with banks and serving banks, the honourable secretary of state, you have no strength and courage to introduce a moratorium while the crisis lasts for a year on loans and interest, because what you serve to the bankers, but you have instructed our citizens to ask the banks for good will, which will scrutinly collect it, ceases. Well, every state, the council must make that decision. As long as you are servants of the bankers, while they finance you, while they undermine you, the Croatian people will not be free. This assembly in this crisis, the sea of those greasy geese that get fat, it has to take away at least a piece of them, we're not even taking anything away, we're just asking it to be delayed by our citizens, by those who have extra profits. The largest profit in the Republic of Croatia has banks and bankers. First, you let them be privatized and alienated from the people, when you have capitalized and now that they have robbed and milked the people now do not bear any burden because you are servants of the banks, not servants of the Croatian people. And MPs should be 10 times louder because of this injustice done by the Croatian government in co-operation with the banking lobby who has been robbed by the Croatian people. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199994	Are you asking for a vote? You got so carried away and I asked you if you were looking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199995	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199996	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Lovrinović submitted the 7th Amendment to Art. Three, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199997	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. The amendment shall take effect on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The 3rd law proposes the introduction of an obligation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to initiate the process of buying-in of debts blocked by the Agency for the collection of claims during the crisis. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. conducts a fee to assess the effects of this law. And apart from the fact that such a proposal is required for extensive analysis and discussion with several aspects, it cannot, by its content, be subject to the regulation of this law. Namely, the Act on the implementation of the implementation of the law on monetary assets regulates the implementation of the law on financial assets, the keeping of the eyewitnesses, the order of the basis for payment, the handling in cases of lack of cash by the perpetrators for the implementation of the performance, the conduct of the business entity under the terms of the blocking of his account, the giving, storage and storage of data and compensation, the conduct of a single account register, and the supervision of the implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199998	Dear Representative Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u199999	Here's another rejected amendment. That doesn't surprise me. We from the Party Change Croatia, our experts, here's what respected citizens have offered, here's what we've offered to finally solve the problem of blocked citizens. Debt enforcement agencies bought from banks 38 billion kuna claims for only 10 billion kuna. Here we have suggested that the state take over from the Agency for Deploying Debt claims, no longer harassing citizens, that the state imitates a bond of 10 billion kuna, pays off this agency and that it, or its fund, continues to administer loans to citizens. But dear citizens, you know what's the key here to your advantage, for your salvation? In that you won't have to pay back 100% of the current debts left, but 40% at the most. So I should be specific. If Janko is now 1000.000,00 kn on the bill of a residential loan, he will eventually have to pay only 40.000,00 kn. Well, dear citizens, you just heard that this government doesn't want it, and it can be solved in three months, so I've been looking for it while the crisis is now let's get people to solve this problem that it doesn't exist anymore. Well, my fellow citizens, I no longer see I have nothing to pray for here, everything bounces off the wall. It's up to you. You've got 230,000 blocked. My people, if you're not up for this solution and you don't support it in the election, then only the dear God can save you, and you see that this is a realistic solution, that there's money for it, just means that we can squeeze out these debt enforcement agencies, to break this food chain, and therefore, to free you from debt slavery so that you can sleep peacefully and live like free people. Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200000	Are you asking for a vote? Thank you. That concludes this law, and we move on to a declaration of amendments. And, dear representative and vice president of this high house Furio Radin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200001	Mr. Vice President, I would only ask you to honor this subsequent amendment of mine, since it seemed like my amendment to Art. No. 2 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases to seek a vote. No vote is required because it turns out that my amendment is identical to the IDS amendment, it was seen that it was accepted in a changed form, and neither am I asking for a vote, just let it enter the minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200002	Thank you very much. I figured that out, but thank you very much for the further clarification.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200003	Final proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the implementation of the law on money assets, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 924. The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, MP Ivan Lovrinović, the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and let's change Croatia and MP Miro Bulj. The review of the amendment is divided into benches. We had a statement on the amendments earlier in the session. We will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. So, the 1st amendment, the Legislative Committee has been adopted, becomes an integral part of the law. 2. Amendment The Society of Representatives of the Living Wall and Change Croatia, the Government does not accept, so let us vote. Who's up for the proposal? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, 27 for, 2 abstentions and 81 against. The 3rd amendment of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted by the Government and we must vote. Please, let's vote. Who's up for the amendment? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes, 38 were for, 1 abstention and 74 against. Amendment No. 4 Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridges, the government does not accept it, so I ask that we vote. Who's up for the amendment? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, 35 for, 2 abstentions, 80 against. The fifth amendment of MP Ivan Lovrinovic, the government does not accept, so I ask that we vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, 81 against, four abstentions and 24 for. The sixth amendment of MP Mira Bulja, the government does not accept it, so I ask that we vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't get the required number of votes, 81 against, 3 abstentions and I didn't see how much for, but mostly he didn't get the required number of votes. And the seventh, last amendment of MP Ivan Lovrinovic, the government does not accept, so let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The final score, 81 against, 8 abstentions and 20 for, therefore, the amendment did not receive the required number of votes. I am now voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Act on the implementation of the budget implementation. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that, unanimously, 120 votes for the adoption of the Act supplementing the Act on the implementation of the law on monetary assets.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200004	The next item of the agenda is: Final proposal of the Law on Unrated Building Land, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 805 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Minister of State Property Mario Banozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200005	Honorable Vice President, Honorable MPs and MPs. Out of the application of the current 2010 law, inconclusive and non-life provisions have been observed in order to activate additional economic and tourism capacities of the Republic of Croatia, resulting in this final proposal of the Law on Unrated Building Land, which seeks to permanently resolve property and property on unrated building land, where I am referring to the tourist land on which hotels, tourist settlements and camps are built and other unrated building land. In the Republic of Croatia today there are 76 campsites of more than 14 million m2 which have been the subject of the conversion of social enterprises and in which the facilities have been assessed and the land below the facilities and around the facilities are not. This bill adds a new definition of unrated building land, this definition of tourist land, which removes doubts from the 2010 law, but also for the purpose of applying this law, defines other concepts important for regulating property and legal relations such as hotel, tourist resort, camp, part of camp, coverage of tourist land, remaining tourist land, other building land and companies. Furthermore, it is precisely defined by the scope of tourism land which has not been assessed and which is defined by the applicable law as having units of local self-government in such a way as to prescribe that it is the land covered by the building particle of the hotel or tourist settlement. Land that is necessary with their regular use and covers a wide belt around the facility itself, e.g. sports courts, parks, playgrounds, utility facilities for the utility in the function of the hotel, etc. Since tourism land is a special type of building land whose administration needs to ensure further development of tourism as an economic activity, this law regulates the ratio of the distribution of income from the lease or sale of land owned by local self-government units in such a way that 40% of income belongs to the local self-government unit, 20% to the regional (regional) self-government unit, 40% to the Tourism Fund. All funds must be used in accordance with the Budget Act. The proposal for a law lays down that the campsites recognise the ownership of land under the facility assessed in their underlying capital in the event that the land under the facility is not assessed. This creates the principle of unity of real estate and land in which the facility is built, but this will also create new cadastral particles on which the estimated buildings are built that will be owned by a commercial company and will thus depose the co-ownership community and will be exclusively owned by the Republic of Croatia for the assessment of land in the camps. After that, a commercial company that has its own properties covered by the camp will have the legal position of landowners owned by the Republic of Croatia in the scope of the camp and will conclude a lease agreement with it. The initial amount of the unit price of the lease and other orientation criteria for their determination will be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a regulation. It is important to point out that the unit price of the rent to be paid by the company, adjusted by economic cost per county, and that all camps categorized with 4 stars achieve 5% discount on the amount of real estate, and camps with 5 stars 10% on the amount of the rent. New law... tourism land owned by units of local self-government and camp land, owned by the Republic of Croatia, no longer give concessions but rents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The bill stipulates that the revenues of renting part of camps owned by the Republic of Croatia or selling part of the camp owned by the Republic of Croatia are shared in a way that 30% belongs to the Republic of Croatia, 20% to local self-government units, 10% to the regional self-government unit and 40% to the Tourism Development Fund, which is the means to spend all of them on purpose under the Budget Act. That solution allows the state budget of units of local and regional self-government and the tourism development fund to make significantly greater and more acceptable revenue than those which now have. In relation to the text of the draft law which passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, the text of the final proposal for the law introduced certain amendments to the proposal and the position laid down during the first reading of the bill, as well as certain amendments to certain articles on the proposal of the social partners, Croatian Association of Tourist Objects, HUP and Others, and amendments to certain provisions are the result of... analysis at the Ministry of State Property, all with the aim of improving the provisions of the final draft law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to the above, the provisions of the law have been recently improved. In particular, the proposal for a law by the applicant in the text of the final draft law has substantially amended the following. First, the concepts of building particles of the hotel, building particles of the tourist settlement and building particles are better defined, which is of great importance for regulated property-legal relations and law enforcement. Secondly, a deadline has been extended for the production of geodetic elaborates for the formation of specific particles for each building which is an estimate of the value of the underlying capital in conversion from 180 to 270 days. It is undoubtedly prescribed that for the space of the existing camp in the event of further construction in that camp, a construction permit may be issued even in the case where a second purpose is planned for a valid spatial plan in that space, making this law a formal legal basis for the establishment of a permit for further construction in the camp as a specific regulation or regulation which regulates the issue of issuing building permits. Fourthly, the content of the land lease contract at camp and tourist land is set to be prescribed by the regulation. On the fifth, a more precise procedure for the implementation of the elaborate has been prescribed and the procedure has now been simplified and shortened. The sixth, in the case of a administrative dispute, the administrative court shall conduct a dispute full of jurisdiction, or independently determines the factual situation, conducts an oral hearing, enables parties to participate in the proceedings and decide itself in a specific administrative matter. 7, in companies that have missed the deadline for the award of concessions for tourist land under the old law, it is possible to initiate the procedure for the resolution of property-legislative relations under this law and enable units of local self-government as the owner of tourist land to follow the act by establishing tourist land if the company fails to take the necessary actions again. 8, the participation of the State Attorney's Office as a representative of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed in all proceedings under this law. 9, it is prescribed that the resolution of maritime good relations will apply a regulation governing the issue of maritime goods in front of the authorities in accordance with that regulation. 10, the purpose of spending on renting or selling tourist land is prescribed which must comply with the Budget Act. 11, a prescribed exemption for campsites for which this law, between the Republic of Croatia and the commercial company, shall enter into force by day, established the ratio of co-ownership in the camp, in accordance with Article 1(1). 6th century 2 Laws on tourism and other construction land,... the process of conversion and privatisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're talking about the 2010 law, and no concession agreement is concluded in accordance with Article. 8 This Act and those camps will not be disbursed by co-ownership, and the relationship between the Republic of Croatia and the commercial society in the camp will be duly applied to the provisions of the Article. 21-26 of this law. 12, it is prescribed that companies can distinguish the concession fee from 3 equal annual meals. It is therefore necessary to stress that a life-long, no-technically short and harmonised text of the law that will be applied in practice and will regulate open issues from the process of converting and privatising the hotel-tourism sector, which is now owned by various shareholders and those quoted in the Stock Exchange. Therefore, the proposed law in question will allow regulated property-legal relations between all participants and assume that a new investment cycle will be opened, which will ultimately regulate a significant impact on the state budget, the budget of local or regional self-government, which in a direct, indirect sense. Following all this, I suggest you support this final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200006	Representative Dark-Taritash has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200007	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Minister, this is one of the laws I call and it seems to me that they should be and call those lex specialis when you influence the provisions of other laws with certain provisions. It seems to me that some of the things you've defined here are absolutely like that because otherwise, there's not going to be anything that can be solved, and that's what I'm going to do when I'm going to discuss, I'm going to decide a little bit. You have made up your mind in the provision of an article. 10 for a period of 3 years in which, therefore, you will decide that the financial frameworks are defined by the regulation, that units of local self-government based on these regulations should decide which fee is concerned and that within 3 years, therefore, where some frameworks will be defined, depending on the prices of land on the market. Doesn't it seem to you that this three-year-old deadline may be a little too large in circumstances and changes? It seems to me it would be much more appropriate. that you've made up your mind either for a year or for two. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200008	Thank you. Replication response, Minister Banozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200009	Honorable parliamentary MPs, a deadline mentioned in Article. 10 laws were issued to these very consultations that I said we had with both professional groups and with both DORH so that he was as such and accepted by those who would pay and those who would look at the legal basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200010	Demetlik's representative called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200011	From your explanation, but also from your opening presentation, you mentioned that 14 million 100 thousand square meters of surfaces in car-camps in 76 camps. However, in my explanation, I lack one analysis of how many square meters per county, i.e. the number of auto-camps per county and whether you have done an analysis of the estimated total income from the lease or the sale of that land and how and by which county these revenues are realised, and the law itself will be through my own exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200012	Replication response, Minister Banozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200013	Parliamentary representative, thank you for asking. So, all other issues that are not defined by this law, it is now referred to as areas, prices, methods of collection, will be defined by a regulation that will be passed by the Government after the adoption of this law. That's where we're going to show an analysis of what it's like in the county, because we have here this economic cost-effectiveness coefficient, which is going to mean for future investments. You have seen from the very text of the law, meaning that in certain counties there will literally be a discount precisely with the aim of fostering infrastructure, but also those who invest in this infrastructure will be rewarded or raised on the issue of the star is either, categorization with 5 or an additional 10% discount on the price. Also in counties where this cost-effectiveness coefficient is higher, and there will also be a greater return of funds through the Tourism Fund or faster investment. And everything will be further explained exactly as you said in the county, according to the number of square meters and the defined price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200014	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. The HDZ advocates' club first reported for participation in the debate. In their name will be the representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200015	Thank you very much, dearly respected Minister and Secretary of State, the Honorable Chairman. This law makes me happy today despite the unfortunate circumstances in which we are. I was afraid they wouldn't come to the agenda, but that's why I congratulate the minister, the associates and the government for coming. Of course the HDZ Club supports it. The name itself has a symbolism, an unrated building land law, and we know it should have been evaluated more than 25 years ago, but it didn't. However, the land was treated as if it had been evaluated and entered into the core capital of companies. That's why this law is the law of inaction, the law of failure, the law of failure and sin, some kind of penance, but let's play symbolism, this is one of the most vital laws of all. Law recognising long-term damage and problems, solution law, clear, simple and enforceable. We also know that history is a teacher of life, so let's go back to history to better understand the need and importance of this law. After changing every social order in Europe, it took 10 years. In order for society to adopt new standards for the establishment of new manners, they apply new criteria and that society is polished. The years of independence in the Republic of Croatia for the status and fate of state property were confusing and devastating. It was a time, a better time to say a storm of taking property, a time of lawlessness, violence, a long-standing institutional hibernation. Since the Roman era, property and property have been known to have nothing in common, but Europe knows that, but in the Republic of Croatia, almost 30 years. The owner acted as though he were the owner, and things the owner of the state acted as if not the owner, as if not the interested party. The solutions that the state enlisted as the owner of no one served as an incentive for conscience and a warrant for reason to treat such property as its own and to put it into office. And it was 1,000 apartments, 1000 business spaces, 1000 plots, millions of squares of land by the sea, by the beach, hundreds of buildings and hotels. And the centre of Zagreb, it's just a special chapter. As a quality building is built on good foundations, so the state is built on good laws. Why not after 30 years in the section of state ownership. We as a society are not polished by the crucial three factors. Bad laws, institutional post conditions and designers and chaos conventions. I've studied hundreds of elaborates on the value assessment of social capital. In 90% of the cases, the estimated value was not entered into the underlying capital, and companies continued to use non-Union assets as their own without compensation, and there is no such thing in Europe. In the Republic of Croatia alone, it is possible for the State to import into the core capital of the company land for which the former owners did not pay the compensation and that the compensation was paid by municipalities instead of the State. Thus, the municipality of Podgorica paid the former owners 18 million kuna, almost 3 of its budgets and has been blocked for years. For two years, the state has also had a legal obligation to compensate for damages, until now it has not done so, not what the law provides but what the law requires, there are still such examples. What are the laws that allowed lawless owners of thousands of state-owned apartments and business spaces to rent to thirds for large amounts so that the state doesn't pay anything? What are the laws that allowed 25 million m2 of building land to be used for economic purposes without contractual relations and compensation? Who is and on what basis has someone decided that the state in the camps is a co-owner of 50% when no single camp is a less co-owner than 90%? What laws have allowed even state-owned hotels to be used privately for decades without legal basis or compensation? Who made it possible for private companies to sell land and objects that were not owned by the company but by the state? With half of Babin Hook in Dubrovnik, that's exactly what's been done. And not just in Dubrovnik. Art. 47. The Law on Conversion and Privatisation clearly states, an asset that is not entered into the underlying capital is the property of the state and, based on that article, the state has registered on many properties, even on some that the owner did not sell, but only the ministry has launched the takeover process. Then the non-owners objected, and then, for years, they got used to it as if it were their own, and then problems started for individuals in the country. And what hypocrisy, publicly publishing donations, donations for several thousand kunas to fight the coronary virus, and the state does not allow to enter into the ownership of its property and another ten million kuna to owe to the state for free use. And only what institutions were responsible for the protection and effective management of state property at all times. And that's why I won't even mention the legal ancestors of the Ministry of State Property and the CERP and the creators, protagonists and protectors of such a situation because it's just a reminder of them that causes nausea. Fortunately, the Ministry of State Property introduced new values, criteria and standards into Croatian institutional life. Only after time has passed will the new generations see what the Ministry of State Property has done, how much it has prevented, how much it has changed, how much it has triggered. And with what good, not good, brilliant individuals the institution has rarely, and elsewhere in the civil department of the State's Attorney's Office, because if it hadn't been for their enthusiasm, knowledge and true patriotism, the ministry couldn't have done so much. They say that the bad law is the worst form of tyranny, but the so far 2010 Tourism Land Act is so bad that it is not the worst form of tyranny, it is the worst form of anarchy, because it has been no legal action carried out in 10 years, but this proposed law is the law of deanarchisation. It is a law on the renaissance of Croatia, one of the most reformable laws since Croatia's independence to date. The Law on State Property Management, the Law on the Hire and Buying of Business Spaces and the Law on Unrated Building Land are ex cathedra examples of reform, they change the image of Croatia, protect interests and ownership of the Republic of Croatia, give security to entrepreneurs, encourage economic activity and open space to huge investment projects. Only three things would draw attention. First, there are already ministers, a large number of lawsuits against JLS, companies and the state. It wouldn't be good to keep those charges after the law's been applied. Second, the price regulation and conditions as soon as possible to the Government. Thirdly, the Tourism Fund, I don't mind having money go to them, and they've been increased to see the coefficient, but just, finally, to be established because it's a phantom formation, the fund doesn't exist and it exists. And only if circumstances allow us to return to economic life because without economic life, the effects of this law, and to return to reality, is not enough just to react to the government because the government has done a lot. all borrowers and private and state, must give up the lease for all time until the business is disabled, all banks should put a moratorium on the repayment of the loan, both unambiguously and without compensation. All those who charge rent and interest at the time of non-business, kill Croatian economy, kill people, kill Croatia. What does a delay in interest mean? For entrepreneurs nothing, and for banks to charge even more interest than without moratorium. The employer will never be able to compensate for lost income during the non-business period. Then for that period, neither rent nor interest should be paid. Hotels do not work for us, restaurants, hair salons, buttocks, cafes, shops, and HEP employers have to pay for strength, fee for a reasonable place, compensation for encouraging renewable sources, similar to water pipelines, teleopers, forests, chambers. Stop calculating fixed costs and fees until there are no business activities and book only spent. If they do not, it is more important for them than the fate of Croatia to pay a donation of several thousand kunas and protect themselves with hypocritical humanism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200016	The GLAS representative's club has reported for participation in the debate, MP Mrak Taritaš will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200017	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished ministers with a co-worker, colleagues. I can name names, but I won't. This law is one of those laws that you really need to take a step forward or step forward. We're all on the subject of the crown and on the topic of solving this moment, but it seems to me that this time should be used for some other things. I listened carefully to the debate that the former minister had before me on behalf of the club, then I remembered a situation or some life trip you remember. I studied and graduated from college in another country, another name of the same country, but another name in another arrangement. That's where the space planner was, you know how simple it was then? You have everything nice, you plan how roads go and everything and you don't even care if someone owns it. You don't even care if someone owns it or not, you're looking at the best possible option and then you're going to go after it or whatever it is that's going on. In the '90s, not only did he change the way he thought, the structure, and everything else. And there have been significant changes in spatial planning. You want to make a good spatial plan, and I mean this level of implementation, first property, because where you plan the road and you can't carry it, there's no road. So these are some of the processes we've been through. I also read the process of this law that was 2010. After 10 years of that law, it proved exactly as the promoter had said. There are elements that are life-like, logical and feasible and you left them still. What you saw through the implementation was the problem, you emphasized it and tried to solve it. As successfully as I can't evaluate it at this point, the most successful thing is that you knew and did it successfully, we'll see it because every law needs to let time be at all, to see how successful it can be. What's important to emphasize and what I think needs to be taken care of, you have a series of laws and then you implement them and you see a series of problems. I'm really reading this law as a lex specialis, no, so it didn't happen by accident, it happened on purpose because here you have a series of things that you've seen that your brake is in some other law and then here you've introduced some other norms and some other way. If we see that it will work, it seems to me that it should be a trigger for some other laws. You know what they say when you have a computer at home and then there's something going on with your computer and you call your friend or rather who's an IT expert and says what to do, freaked out because it always happens to you at a crucial moment. Then he says turn it off and turn it on. It seems to me that some things need to be done and turned on and I'll tell you exactly what I mean. Otherwise, what I always take the opportunity to praise, I'll commend this time, we've got a perfectly complex law. We got exactly what you were doing in relation to the first reading, which you adopted, which you did not adopt with a clear explanation, so we who are preparing for discussion in a way that is not exactly common in this House every time, can monitor what happened and how it was. So what's quite important to emphasize in this law is the following, and it's a cadastre. You are here, this law is precisely defined in relation to the elaborates how it will work, how it will be implemented in the cadastre and how it will be implemented in the garrets by applying this law, not the law that applies to it because you saw that it was your problem. For the first time, we introduced it into the Roads Act so that no road can be sorted, that it does not apply to them all that procedure which is because it has proved to be a problem, which is really a problem in nature. What was the problem with this 2010 law there? As far as spatial planning is concerned, in the debate that was in the first reading, I remember correctly that I was pointing to the problem of forming a building particle, that you will find yourself in this problem if you refer to the Law on Spatial Planning that you must define here what it is because, contrary to the Law on Spatial Planning, it will be determined. You've introduced one more thing, I'm someone who comes from the area of spatial order, and I'm supposed to have hair on my head, but I'm not getting it up. What's this about? It's that you said that for camps that weren't, which were planning a spatial plan at the time of the conversion, and today they're no longer in the spatial plan planned for the camps, that you're letting them live. So it can be published, we know exactly what the camp's content is. You in the camp have a place where you have tents or houses or these houses, you have those fixed objects, that you give them life for the simple reason that there are a number of spatial plans that have been brought in, that in the space where the camp was at the moment of conversion, and you have defined the law exactly, that I don't read it now, I wish, it's a little more important for me to say some other things, that you have defined and said, those camps can remain alive. These camps, until one day the conditions are met that, either in accordance with the spatial plan, they decide to change everything together, or maybe through a spatial plan, they'll go back and forth. Those who are engaged in tourism and when you listen to them, then say that actually the camps are somehow the fastest to run, the fastest you see your investment and everything else you need to be. That's where you finally set yourself up, and it's good that you've defined yourself, that's what I'm talking about. The 29th theme of this co-ownership between the state and those of the companies was madness. So, they own the building, the land owners under the building are the state, there's co-ownership, as otherwise we've already allowed co-ownership in our legislation, so that's good. It seems to me that you may have had to be a little more persistent to define the maritime well-being. So, everything that is related to maritime well-being you left on the Ministry's instructions that is responsible for, that the laws of the maritime good apply, maybe there was, there might be room for us not to be in the future brakes, but there is no law carved into stone so give him the opportunity to live, so you see the problems that you've created, and then from these problems you'll solve. What are our remarks and in that sense we will give amendments are next. What, so you've defined yourself about this financial part, the government will adopt a regulation, changes that are in the space of change that this unfortunate coronary virus or COVID-19 will bring, will feel terrible about the price of real estate. At the cost of land. I think that's where you need to define yourself and not go on that three-year deadline. First, those who persuaded you for 3 years will ask you to change the deadline. Imagine today that you are applying what, or tomorrow, to apply what was compared to the price of building land a year ago, it will be heaven and earth. That, the other thing we're going to give the amendment to, is this, so 40% is being paid to a tourism fund run by the competent authority of the state administration, that's art. 12, and we don't have a tourism fund. Now, there's a man who's not smart to the end. On the one hand, it would be good to go there because it would be some kind of trigger or whatever. But if we didn't start a fund, if that's not how we define it, why are we doing it? It is much better then to leave more units of local self-government and the question is what is the role of the unit of regional self-government and the thing that absolutely seems to us that this simple message is not good, it is a provision for you. 22. What is absolutely good, and that is that you decide to reduce those who have invested in your camps and who are categorized, so the unit price will be reduced by a percentage and that you have decided to reduce that unit price for camps that are in continental counties and islands, but why are you punishing those who have invested, who have worked, who are good? So, there remained the Istrian and Primorje-Gorski County with a coefficient of 1, and of all 7 islands and along coastal counties, for all the other 5 coefficients you have defined differently, so we from the GLAS Club will go with these three amendments that I have announced to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200018	The HNS Club applied for participation in the debate, on their behalf should have been spoken by representative Stjepan Curaj, who is not there, thus losing his right to speak. The SDP club also reported for participation in the debate, on their behalf will be represented by MP Vedran Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200019	Thank you, Vice President. Well, it's hard for me, after two former ministers to go into some sort of add-on to this debate, we have, or we have, that after almost two and a half decades, we have faith that a quality law will be passed that will solve all the problems that have failed to solve, is that it was an attempt in 2010. The law on tourism and other construction land unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, but the minister elaborated all its shortcomings, and we also saw in practice that unfortunately the law did not come into life. To not only do I owe, I will simply look back at the non-resolvement of these property-legal relations, meaning for those consequences that remain in the privatisation that the case has happened that the companies from conversion, meaning that tourism has become the owners of the property and were not the owners of the land under the facilities or the land itself in all the complexes and destinations, that it has naturally led to the derogation of all these tourist destinations, we also know that the tourism of our country in terms of the budget means and I believe that these changes of the law will really no longer have the potential investments, that the owners of the facilities or these companies will have the opportunity to come or manage these land properties in the first place or possibly buy it, and then they will simply open up as much investment as possible, investment are the basis of stronger development and here, in the best faith of the SDP club will support this proposal even more in the proposed legislation. Also, regarding these distributions of land sales revenue. There may be an observation that an agency that does not exist should not be involved in participation but rather that it is distributed differently, but if it is quickly solved, I do not see the problem either. Here's not to be too long, just... In the best faith that this will finally come to life, the SDP club will uphold the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200020	Croatia's Zekanovic's representative was supposed to speak on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club and other two independent representatives, since he is not there, is losing his right to speak. To participate in the debate, the IDS, PGS and RI Club also signed up, will speak on their behalf for Tulio Demetlika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200021	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors Minister, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here's what my colleague said, after the former minister, former minister, I'll be like the former mayor who had certain experiences since I was mayor of the tourist town of Istria and who I have been in the past, I'll say 20 I've met with problems with land resolution and investment related to tourism. And you yourself said that this law here for 25 years was a brake, that we all expected a certain law that would make it much easier for all these procedures, and I will remember that at the end of my first reading of this law, I have expressed hope that by the second reading you would accept our proposals, respect our comments, and not only those by the IDS, PGS and RI, but also by the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. And we have to say that we expected much more than unfortunately, your understanding was missing, none of the suggestions you accepted, you refused everything and therefore I must express my deep dissatisfaction. We in IDS believe that this law is of paramount importance, given that it directly affects the development of tourism and the creation of new values in the tourism sector and that its application is related to the business of hotels, camps and thus to the increase of revenues to municipalities, cities and counties and state. The currently in force law adopted in 2010 is a brake of development and achievement of higher income, and that is why we supported the adoption of a new law that was in practice to bring about certain improvements. But what do we get from this final bill? We get that the units of local self-government will only be owned by land around the facility that serves for the regular use of these buildings that has not been evaluated or entered into the fundamental capital of society or in conversion. The remaining land is practically the same plot and within the tourist resort or as it is popularly called, the TRP, tourist development area, defined by the spatial plans of the units of local self-government, becomes owned by the Republic of Croatia. And that's unacceptable for us. For what reason? Because once again we have three subjects in the process, we have a company that is. hotelers, we have a local self-government unit, so the city or... The municipality and third, we have the state again, through two ministries, the Ministry of State Administration and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, so we're talking about that part of the maritime good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this way, relations between these 3 entities are greatly complicated, which is because of the very way of managing and using this land, whether it is the price of the lease, for maintaining, editing, upgrade, new construction, the whole process is complicated, I am telling you from experience as long-term mayor. And this will certainly result in new disputes and I stress that this unresolved issue still today has the consequences of expensive and unnecessary active judicial disputes between the state on the one hand and the units of local self-government, the tops of the municipalities and cities on the other, which are both public and private investments, the opening of new jobs, the achievement of revenues both for the state and for the local community. Even in the final draft of the law, you added in relation to the first proposal, in Art. 3. paragraph 2 has been added, which has been prescribed to represent the State's Attorney General in possible disputes. So it turns out that you already know that there will be court disputes and you expect them, and that's okay for the State's Attorney's Office to represent the state, to protect the interests of the state, but I'm asking you, who's going to represent the municipalities and cities? Turns out they're not a state because I remind you that in all disputes, municipalities and cities, they have to hire and pay lawyers. As a result, there is still no confidence in local self-government units and thus only confirms further centralisation and there is no talk of giving or missing certain powers or strengthening local self-government. decentralisation. It's another centralization. So the state directly manages and affects the space that lies in the spatial plans of the units of local self-government. I will repeat what I have already said in my first reading, which is that the owners of these lands should be units of local self-government or cities and municipalities, since they know best how to use these land in accordance with the needs of this area and according to the spatial-planning documentation which is also confirmed by the state, and in most cases these are green areas which fall within the municipal infrastructure and under the Law on Local Self-Government are precisely cities and municipalities that are obliged to maintain and manage that land. I will mention, Mr. Maric will surely remember, when the Law on State Property was passed and where the state's through the State's Attorney's Office entered into green areas, parks in a circle of residential settlements in the cities and municipalities themselves. When it was seen that the error was made, then cities had to take out tabular documents, submit amendments to the State Property Act, request the Ministry of State Property to return those areas to the city or municipality so that they could normally maintain them and bring them into service. So, since that mistake we made back then, we haven't learned a lesson, we haven't learned and we're reassembling in this law. So again I repeat, leave the entire land in tourist settlements to local self-government, whether cities or municipalities. Because according to us, the law must define criteria, clear criteria, standards and conditions for the availability and management of and cities and municipalities are those that have and manage, and the state has an obligation to control the implementation of the law. This would free the state from additional red tape and then talk about strengthening local self-government or decentralisation because now with this final bill we can only talk about centralisation and don't mind me, I'll dare say nationalisation, I don't have much time, and this applies to the part of the land in auto-camps. You who wrote that law know for sure what I'm talking about. So, as for the land in the car-camps circle, this final proposal, the Republic of Croatia becomes the owner of that land, which completely excludes local self-government. And in the part where it's even registered as the owner, it also excludes individuals who are enrolled. We'll make an amendment to that as a club. So we think it's wrong and that these lands should be left to local self-government units. In our first reading, we also made a proposal to distribute income from this so-called. I will call it the tourist land, in a way that equalises the land as part of the tourist resort and the land in the auto-camps because we do not understand why this difference has arisen, and this proposed distribution is unacceptable for us. It is the units of local self-government that are the bearers of investment, investment in the development of overall infrastructure and maintenance of existing and all in order to develop tourism and create additional values. They therefore deserve a higher percentage of the funds. As for the distribution of incomes from the so-called so-called tourism land, whether in tourist resorts or camps, you have suggested two ways of distribution of funds, depending on the type of land, and we also consider it unnecessary because, as in the first reading, I ask again, what is the difference between these two types of land? We in the IDS believe that the distribution must be equal for both types of land and that in a way that units of local self-government get 50%, County, Fund 20% of the funds, while the proposed 30% of the countries intended should be excluded from distribution. Again, is it not enough for the state to achieve greater revenues through the good operations of these camps through VAT and other taxes than by further centralised the possible original incomes from the own resources of individual municipalities and cities, thus providing funds for further development? With regard to economic viability coefficients, we find it pointless that there is a difference Since there are no MPs, allow me three sentences until the end [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder Reiner: Please bring the end anyway, right.]] With regard to economic viability coefficients, we find it pointless that there is a difference in the coefficient between individual counties. The question arises whether they are in breach of the Constitution, given that different criteria apply to the same activity?
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200022	Thank you. Thank you very much. Now we're going to move on to an individual debate, the first to come forward is Honorable Representative Branko Bačić, please. [[Intruder Demetlika: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200023	I would like to thank Mr Vice President, the Honorable Minister and Secretary of State, the esteemed colleague, no longer a colleague here in the assembly. I also said in my first reading that I support the law and now I support the law and agree with what my colleague Maric said about this law. I was in the first reading when I spoke on behalf of the club, warned of one by myself, indiscretion, and I didn't see her at all now that she had been solved and I'd be very specific about it, trying to say something to Tulio, a colleague of Demetlik, I didn't realize that he worked it out, and it's about what? It's just that maybe there's a problem in implementing this through the land book, the catastre and the existing spatial plans, so I'm going to give you a concrete example. Let's say the tourist plot on which hotels and tourist resorts were built. We have to, if nothing's done, but there's still an evaluation lab, we have to go through the land book. We have to do it in one of these variants, three particles. The first particle is a hotel with belonging land, the estimated land added to the hotel, which we must form as a special building particle that will be registered as the holder of the ownership of the company. It's according to the law. Now we have to form another particle. The second particle is made in accordance with the elaborate consent of the centre which includes the land used for the regular use of the facility, the hotel. It's a second particle and it's registered as the owner of a second title, a unit of local self-government. If this land does not cover the entire complex of tourist land that was then estimated, that part is the third particle registered on the Republic of Croatia. So 3 are particles. And now that we're going into law enforcement, it's a duty to form a single particle to which a request for a lease to a local self-government unit will later be submitted. Now I'm asking you, that's what's left of me until the end, what happens if that particle registered by the local self-government unit doesn't match the building particle that's drawn in the local self-government unit's competent spatial plan? In that case, will the competent authority, the administrative department of spatial planning, verify such an elaborate? Because he is in line with what CERRP said, but is he automatically such a particle in line with the spatial plan? You know the administrative department can verify the emborate geodetically if it's in line with the spatial plan. It's you, it's something I... That's, I said we'd come in then, that's what I said, and when I said it the first time, we could come in conflict with that such an elaborate won't be possible to implement because I don't know if the administrative authority will verify it. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Because the building particle that is according to the spatial plan has to be, it has to be up to a certain road, it has to include some other reason that, based on the CERP's position, it doesn't have to be identical to what's written in the spatial plan. And the third thing, that's the dilemma that Tulio said, Mr. Demetlik, I apologize to Tulio, and that's to think, that's what we said when it was the question of the Law on State Property, whether that part of the land that is the subject of this law, which, until the adoption of the Law on Property and other real rights, was a building plot in the spatial plans of the units at the time of local self-government, would now allow it to become owned by the Republic of Croatia, where it was not a building land, when they were large municipalities and when and before the Law of Property and other real rights was passed, it was absolutely justified to become owned by the Republic of Croatia. But where there was building land, based on a spatial plan, before the Republic of Croatia passed the Law on ownership and other real rights, is it justified that this land belongs to the Republic of Croatia? These were my dilemmas that I had said at the time of the first reading of the law, but I agree that the law is a great step forward that the law will be powerful and will allow for the implementation of what we have long kept and haven't solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200024	Thank you very much, we have two replicas, the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200025	Thank you very much. I find this law very, very interesting. I find him interesting as someone who really thinks about space, but I find it interesting that he predicted something that we don't have in some other laws so far. I kind of always think we should set a goal, which is the goal. We have 6% of RH space intended for construction, and if our goal is to put the land into operation, enable development, enable a series of things, then we really need to see what models they are, and so I said in the debate, I will be interested in applying this law especially when it comes to the catastro. You and I know the Mljet case well, when someone sold the way they sold that investors sued, and there's nothing going on in Mljet for years. There may not have been anything going on in some places, but it seems to me that we should really suddenly start thinking about what our goal is and try to get to that goal, not in a way that we can complicate, It's how we handle it. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200026	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200027	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Dark Taritash, I think you've got me. So when the geodette comes out on the ground, he will respect the position of the Restructure Centre and build a plot as he told him that the CERRP in which the land serves the regular use of that hotel. But at that point, if this particle is in line with the relevant spatial plan, it could be an urban plan, maybe not, and if it isn't, it could be on the chance that this elaborate won't be able to be verified and then implemented in a cataster and a land book, and that's why I wanted the Ministry to explain to me if that's the case if by this law as a lex specialis, we're going to rule out a spatial plan, then it should be written here, that's what I was going to say. And otherwise, if the CERP has made a decision to form this particle in accordance with the spatial plan, all is resolved. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200028	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Tully Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200029	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased by this dilemma of Mr. Bačić's, but I think it's all clear, it just needs to go back a little bit to the past where the issue of ownership of cadastral particles on which ownership has been determined by a judicial decision, by the application of the rules laid down in this law, can only be changed through court proceedings. So when they were former municipalities, they gave companies the right to use and build, they owned these former municipalities. The deformation of former municipalities and the creation of new units of local self-government of municipalities and cities, they are legal followers and these cities or municipalities have signed on to this land, and then the state through its laws dissipates them and places itself as the owner. The question of how much this is in accordance with our Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200030	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200031	Thank you, Mr. Demetlik. We didn't understand, but I don't know if we're thinking about the same case. I was talking about former social property, registered social property that wasn't entered on the basis of nationalisation, so it wasn't damages to former and private owners, it was about classical former and social property, which, until the adoption of the Property Act and other real rights, was listed as social property and the coverage of the plan, building land. In my opinion, and I've argued a hundred times here and here in this assembly, that this land that was formerly social property and included building land is owned by a unit of local self-government, but no, then you've still spoken further, you've mentioned those who are private, where privates are enrolled, that's another thing, I'm talking about clean social land that was built before the law of ownership entered and other real rights to power, that in my opinion is the sole ownership of the unit of local self-government and can't become the foundation of another law owned by the state. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200032	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200033	Thank you very much. I don't think there's a person who's more supportive of this law than I am. I am so warm with him that today I have a special feeling because this is an essential law for Croatia's future. He's so reforming, only three laws of the Ministry of State Property have reformed the state so much because it's not reforming the system with the number of laws but with rooting changes for the better. We have one system in the state that has passed the most laws, the most changes, and at least reformed the system, but the Ministry of State Property with three laws has done a fundamental thing. I spoke in comparison with Europe, and how late we are somewhere, but in some we are more gifted than others, we are the most gifted to preserve the communist mental mechanism and to preserve the integrity and image of the public former communist protagonists and their present followers, who were the most precisely the kidnappers of state property in this process. And today no one knows who took one place and thousands took them. Whoever broke into one apartment, they don't know, and they've been broken into in thousands and thousands. And then no ugly words were said or written about them, but they turned lies to the other side against those who fought against it. I spoke on behalf of the club today about the need for others to get involved in this situation and circumstances when the economic system does not work when there is no business. I was talking about interest, about the write-off of interest for the moratorium, and I'm thinking, the HBOR accounts for 4% of the entrepreneurs. If he, the business banks have 2%, 1.8%, 2.2%, HBOR 4%. Neither is the Croatian Bank nor is it a Bank for Reconstruction, nor is it a Bank for Development. How can someone develop at 4% today when passive interest is 0? There's no such thing. And who were the kidnappers in Croatia? Of the former husbands of the generals, of the prominent businessmen, of the sons of the dictators of the communists, there is no one in there. But their image is better than their shoes. At the same time, some still try to negotiate with those who use hotels without paying, did not enter the core capital and negotiate the price. What kind of law says you can negotiate a price? Not at all. So much in the state property over the past 20 years has accumulated nothing, there's been a flood of nothingness, there's been a tyranny of nothingness, and there's been an end to that, and then there's attacks and lies. And you know, there's one saying, you've all heard that a hundred times repeated lie becomes true. That's not true. In Croatia, the truth and lie are equally worth it. They're equally worth it. And you know who lies most of the prodigy? I.D.'s on call. They're even making it up, and they won't talk about their pranks. Here you go, Professor. Barisic was so publicly thrown out that he plagiarized his doctorate, he did not, it was proven not. Has anyone apologized to him? It's not. That's how Croatia works unfortunately, yes. And I am because of these circumstances, and because of everything I've done against thousands of people who have emigrated illegally, here are the apartments that you now need to be given to those who have been affected by the earthquake, how will you put it when the city center is flooded... who have no right to be in apartments? Among them came the Quasi defenders because the defenders said, so the invalid cannot win the apartment, and the one who is nothing and who has 3 properties in the city center is not yet evicted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Someone else has suffered for him, but he's a prominent citizen, no one knows what he's up to, and no one knows about his work book and everywhere he's been, from the government, the Parliament, the archbishop, he's gone where he's not present. And so tens of them, hundreds. The one who paid one building on behalf of the state twice as much at a time when the lease was small, than now that the conjuncture, 500 000 euros saved on one building in favour of the state budget per year, has a reputation, not the one that prevented it. And because of these processes, I've lost a few acquaintances, so if anyone finds them, take good care of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200034	Thank you very much. The next individual debate should be the respected representative of Djujic, he is not here and he is losing his right to debate, and then, on behalf of the promoter, the word will now be taken by the respected Minister of State Property Mario Banozic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200035	Honorable Vice President, honourable parliamentary MPs, MPs. From my opening presentation, you saw that indeed through the points that I stated, that the changes in relation to the first reading, you saw that we were trying really to cover everything we had last time in this debate, but also at the discussions of working meetings that we had with the tourist entities that would eventually be you who might be the most law and should assist, which is the development of the tourism sector, the development of tourist infrastructure. It is the unit of local self-government that may be there, perhaps they should be the happiest and most grateful because I am the acceptance that will occur from these stimulating and coefficients and incomes that will come to mind in the budget and the relations that will be arranged on certain particles, perhaps the biggest contribution for local self-government units, so not only the existence of new ownership but the arrangement, the income from land that we all agreed together was unregulated. Some things have just referred to a clearer definition of the jurisdiction of administrative procedures, as well as to the definition of parceling embodies and that is... given here that exactly the formation of a new particle into a single plotting lab will be the basis for the changes to the spatial-planning documentation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, I can conclude that it's all one thing, through a healthy discussion we try to introduce, capture all the elements, put in this second reading. There will be a further definition behind this of a regulation that we are already very close to a solution and I believe that soon we will have it, that this law will indeed have its right to the satisfaction of all but primarily of the tourism sector. This is where I want to focus primarily on economic cost-effectiveness coefficients that are incentives and not punishment, because namely, the local self-government unit at this point means that those who have developed tourism infrastructure will get the incentive to have more money in the budget, but they will also get a tourist entity with a certain release if they invest more in tourist infrastructure. So our focus is to conclude in a few years, that we have no more camps and tourist accommodations of a lower category than we have more categories, means that they are 4 or 5 stars then, they get a significantly lower price to the one that will be formed by a regulation. And just in that sense, and these coefficients that are in the units of local self-government, which will be, let's say, lower, as you have an interpretation, means there will be less revenue in the budget, but on the other hand, the drive and the incentive to pay less the tenant and more money to invest in its facilities precisely with the goal of reaching the 4th and 5th stars, respectively, to pay less. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200036	Thank you very much. We have one replica of your exposure, Your Honor's representative... And I'm sorry, I didn't see, the Honorable representative of the Dark Taritash is the first. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200037	I'm in the color to be seen, but good. Dear Minister, if that problem were easy to solve, I think we'd all solve it. We, when it comes to tourist land and everything that has come into existence as a result of conversion, I will not go any further, we have a mess. One serious mess that doesn't use anyone. It doesn't benefit the state because the state can't manage it. It doesn't benefit those who have solved hotels in conversion because they can't manage it either. This is what I really always mean to commend that intention to get rid of something. It'll be interesting to see through a year or two of that bill's results. What you just predicted, I'm not sure all your scripts are possible. And besides, you've loaded a lot of this sectorally with your ministry which I don't think is bad, I think it's good, but there you'll have to think about the capacities, the human potentials that will be able to overcome it, and that will be one of the challenges that people will now be able to take over from some other sectors.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200038	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200039	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. So, I said, I absolutely support law-making, a major step towards the 2010 law, simplifies a lot of procedures. I am telling you this from my own experience, I have signed on thousands of elaborate parcels, participated in not knowing how many procedures to go through urban conditions, later location permits and implemented in the land book, I just wanted to check again with the Resoring Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction so as not to be in the best interest when the law is passed, to prevent the implementation of a parcelary lab that CERP has given consent and suggested how and how a plot that will later be owned by the local self-government units and for which it will be leased, given that you may not agree with the plot that is registered in the spatial plan, this elaborate could not be carried out in the land book. It's the only thing you'd still like to check before the law that's great and will speed up the economic development of the country, especially where it hasn't been disabled so we don't have a problem with its realization, it was my remark and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200040	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We will meet again tomorrow, on Friday, April 17th at 9:30 and first we will implement the Declaration on Amendments to the Laws we discussed, then we will discuss another law and then the vote at 12pm. Have a nice late afternoon, evening, as you wish. WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK. We are going to make a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law on Unrated Building Land, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 805. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the IDS-PGS-RI Representatives Club and by the GLAS Representatives Club. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Property Krunoslav Katičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200042	Final proposal of the Law on Unrated Building Land, Second Reading, P.Z. 805. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the IDS, PGS and LRI Representatives' Club and by the GLAS. We held the statement at the session and now we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. Therefore, the first amendment of the IDS, PGS and LRI Club, the government does not accept it. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes 76 against, 36 for. The second amendment of the same club, the government doesn't accept, so let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes, 74 against and 38 for. Amendment three, the same club the government doesn't accept, so please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't get the required number of votes, 75 against, 37 for. Amendment number four of the same club representatives, the government does not accept it. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, 76 against, 37 for. Amendment No. Five of the same club representatives, the government doesn't accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't get the required number of votes, 75 against, 40 for. And the sixth final amendment to this club of MPs, the government doesn't accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I'm saying he didn't get the number of votes he needed, 75 against, 38 for. Now we've got three amendments to the Voice Representatives Club, one. The government doesn't accept it, so please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't get the required number of votes, 77 against, 37 for. The second amendment of the same club of MPs, the government doesn't accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes, 57 against, 20 abstentions and 36 for. The third amendment of the same club of MPs, the government does not accept it, please let's vote. Who's up for the amendment? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment has not received the required number of votes, 77 is against, 37 is for. So let's go to the vote on the final draft of the Law on Unrated Building Land, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that most of the votes, 91 for, 8 abstentions and 15 against the passed Law on unrated building land.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200043	Good afternoon. First of all, I thank you for yesterday's constructive debate, which has given one support to this law, which, after many years, solves certain problems back in the 1990s. [[Intruder Reiner: Amendment 1 first.]] Well, anyway, we've received amendments to the IDS-PGS-RI Club, and that's a total of six amendments, so we can get started. Amendment No 1 is proposed to take place in art. 2. Deletes the word outside the library, unfortunately this amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Law itself knows the term and status outside of the book ownership and predominant ownership, so the adoption of this proposal would result in a balance and conduct in accordance with the Property Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200044	On behalf of the club, Honorable Representative Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200045	Thank you. First of all, I will express my dissatisfaction that you have not accepted, but I will give a brief explanation. So this final bill completely ignores the fact that there are land in camps where units of local self-government exist. the cities and municipalities which have acquired ownership as legal sequences of former municipalities and which have been registered over that land with the right to use, manage and dispose, and also have private-owned land. The introduction of an idea outside the library's right of use seeks to abolish the existing right of ownership of other legal and physical persons primarily within camps. We believe that by erasing the concept outside the library, it would protect the property of cities and municipalities, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200046	Thank you very much. Amendment number 2 to Art. It's the 12th club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200047	The amendment is not accepted and is not requested in short for the diameter of the proposed ratios. The applicant considers that this proposed profit-sharing model, i.e. revenue to be realised either from lease or from sale fair and that it also respects the present-day distribution in the construction of the property concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200048	On behalf of the club, Honorable Representative Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200049	Thank you. Again, I express my dissatisfaction with the non-acceptance. Namely, this land is in spatial plans and has been identified as building land within the borders of units of local self-government. We have proposed a different distribution because we believe that just the units of local self-government are those that invest and continue to invest in the development of complete infrastructure for needs and not just tourist companies and facilities that work but a complete tourist resort as well as complete tourist destinations. And we therefore believe that the allocation should be in a way to increase the percentage of units of local self-government, the county, and the tourism ministry to remain part of development as dedicated means for tourism development, but to precisely define the criteria in which these funds will be shared. One of the criteria should be that at least 50% of the funds entered into that tourism development fund to return to the units or to the environment where they were achieved, that is why we have asked for that amendment and I ask for a vote in this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200050	Thank you very much. Amendment number 3 to Art. The 20th Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200051	This amendment is not accepted either. In short, the amendments in question, as proposed in the amendment, shall be released until half of the proposed article fully as in the proposed text of the law, however, the part which, in this opinion, is very important in the follow-up to the definition will be identified in the real situation and the fact that it is in the relevant public books.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200052	On behalf of the club, Honorable Representative Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200053	Thank you. We've made that amendment, and normally it's related to that amendment to the article. No. 2. It is again about ownership which is defined as having certain parcels owned by units of local self-government or private ownership. I ask the question, do we, by this law, violate the practical Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which guarantees the right of ownership and as an art. The 50th century. As the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia provides for the withdrawal of the right of ownership without compensation of market value and is referred to, there is no appeal but is a reference to the administrative dispute, which is why we have proposed this amendment precisely to avoid it. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200054	Thank you very much. Amendment number 4 to Art. The 22nd Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200055	The amendment is not accepted because it proposes eradicating paragraph 3 is the short proposed solution of not in any way bringing anyone into a legal position in a legal position in any way we consider, the Proposer believes that this aims to level the development opportunities in all regions of the Republic of Croatia in which the existing economic branch is not sufficiently developed.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200056	In the name of the club, respected representatives of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200057	I don't think this argument on our side can be accepted either. So in this, we asked to delete this article because we believe that the coefficient that will be paid by companies in the Istrian County and the Primorje-Gorski County is one, e.g. I do not know Split-Dalmatia 0.9, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska 0.8. The same company pays by a different coefficient. The explanation you gave in the written part after the first reading, I don't think it holds water. I agree with the islands or the continental, but this is not where we submitted the amendment. However, the different coefficients for the same activity in Istria, the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, Dalmatia or southern Dalmatia or Dubrovnik-Neretvanska we believe that you create a really irregular position between companies, but if you think that this is an incentive and that they are unevenly developed, I don't think that's exactly an incentive and that's why we wanted to equalize. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200058	Thank you. Amendment number five of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200059	The proposed amendment is not accepted. The subject-matter amendment proposes the introduction of a new section and Article 22a. in which it is briefly proposed that private or natural persons are obliged to enter into a contract. The intensity of the legislation itself suggests that this is left to the parties, and we hold that by accepting this amendment, it would freeze into other legislative areas that regulate free ownership.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200060	On behalf of the club, a respected representative of Demetlik.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200061	When they are, we are not accepted any amendment one and three, this amendment really doesn't make any sense. However, I would like to point out again that by this law, I will dare say after '47. The year is held quietly for a small nationalisation because you are taking away the right of ownership by this law. Especially for local self-government units and natural persons. Keep an eye on, let's stay alive and healthy, and we'll see what happens exactly on these articles that we've given the amendments to in the future in the implementation of this law. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200062	And amendment number six of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200063	Amendment six is also not accepted for the same reasons, similar to amendment number two, it is only about replacing the distribution of income from the land achieved here.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200064	On behalf of the club, a respected representative of Demetlik.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200065	Here, practically this amendment would have been lagging behind if you had accepted from the debate to equalise the land in tourist settlements and land in the autocamps. Even the distribution of income by this part in this second part, you suggest that 30% enter the Republic of Croatia's budget. So, you took away the units of local self-government, you cut to 20. to 10 for the county, and increased 30% for countries and the tourism fund 40%. We believe that 30% of the state is unnecessary because the state makes a profit tax of these companies, VAT on consumption, means there are other revenues, and this proposal takes away the right for local self-government units to source revenues in their territory and their natural resources to maintain, invest in infrastructure and continue to build new infrastructure, and you reduce their practical potential, and money is allocated to the state and the tourism fund. And that's why I'm asking for the same vote, and I'm expressing my dissatisfaction that you haven't accepted any of these proposals and amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200066	Thank you very much. This ended with this bill of law and now we move on to amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law on Unrated Building Land, P.Z. Number 805. The amendments were filed by the Voice Club. First of all, I'd like to make a statement on Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200067	The amendment of the GLAS Club of Representatives, number one, is not accepted, asking for a short change from the proposed 3 years to 1 year. Since this law refers to a strictly limited number of camps and properties on which there are already existing and some relations and regulations that will follow after this, I think it is not realistic in each year because allowing a price change which could affect additional investments we need to think about how it can go up, it can also go on changing values and down, so it would open up again the possibility of smaller revenues.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200068	In the name of the club, respected representative Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200069	Thank you very much. We will ask for a statement of course on this amendment. Yesterday's debate on this bill was attended by three clubs. So it wasn't the law that caused great, great interest, but it is a law that will certainly lead to great changes in some thinking. I also told you in the debate that this law is actually a very special law because you take responsibility for a number of things that are normally done in some other restaurants. So, not only in ownership, in spatial planning and in everything else. That's why I'm surprised that you're not accepting this amendment for the simple reason that your argument is exactly what it's supposed to be. So the price of land in the country as we are and in a situation in the world as it is now because it can be very variable and it can therefore be variable to go to benefit and state, but also to go to the benefit of individual companies. We think that we need to take care of everything, see no reason to agree once a year in government, so the regulation can be agreed in a way that once a year the government only defines the criteria from-to for a simple reason not to be damaged by the state. But you also have to protect some investors and investments. I'm sure that when this law goes into effect, then you'll only see the extent to which it's difficult or simple to apply, but I'm sure that at some point it will come with, the proponent will come with this proposal because he'll see, the second is that you have stable land prices, but we don't have stable land prices and should not be a damaged state, but the state should not be an enemy to investors.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200070	Are you asking for a vote? ... Thank you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The second amendment is also, the GLAS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200071	So since this amendment is not accepted, either, it is also required to change the ratio that is income from the possible lease and the purchase changes in the self-government unit, and I think that we have already further explained, it is the fact that we consider that this ratio is fair and that it corresponds to the present distribution of all actors in this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200072	On behalf of the MPs' club, the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200073	Thank you very much. So, right away at the beginning, I'm asking for a vote so I don't forget because I've forgotten a few times. What exactly is this about? Let's go a little bit in this time that I have to explain. So the area is within the unit of local self-government, that area where the camp is located or the tourist zone is located. The unit of local self-government is the one that will fix the road that will get there, which will hold a public debate that will get there, which at the end of the line has a waste problem. So the unit, the biggest burden when it comes to space, the use of space, the consequences of work or work, and the tourist zone, that is, the tourist zone is also a camp, but also where there are hotels and hotels there are local self-government units. So we absolutely think that the most resources should go to the local self-government unit because it's happening right there. A little less, therefore a very significantly smaller percentage is the county or so in the county is basically a word for the simple reason that there is some relationship, you can have a county road, and what needs to be a state, the state should have a part that goes for further investment, for the development of tourism and everything else, but the greatest burden lies with the units of local self-government. A burden when these tourist zones don't work. So we also had a war area when certain tourist zones didn't work for us. That's when the road was supposed to be maintained. It was supposed to be all that. Therefore, if the burden is most on them, then the most resources should be given to them. That if we want to really do a real decentralisation of this country, then this is one way you can spend it because you can't carry out paper decentralisation formal, you have to implement it financially.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200074	Thank you very much. The third amendment of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200075	This amendment is not accepted either. In short, only a reduction is required, i.e. to allow some benefit camps in continental counties and islands. We still believe that the proposed model is good, that it will balance the development of economic activity that is very important for the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200076	In the name of the club, a respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200077	Thank you very much. I demand a vote on this amendment. We don't think the proposed model is good. So in that proposed model, it's good, and we commended you in that part where you give for someone who has 5 stars, or when you have 5 stars, and when you have 4 stars, really to show up, you invested, we're going to reduce what it is. It's actually an incentive for you to encourage someone to invest, that what they invested more will pay less in this part. It's a real incentive. And what you suggested, so we have 7 Adriatic counties, and then see wonders, Istrian and Primorje-Gorski has one coefficient, and these remaining others as having different coefficients. It's just politics. It's not really a good story. We absolutely agree on the camps on the continent give the coefficient less because there are relatively, so it's harder to fill them and everything else. Equally on the islands, for this one to come to the island, it needs quite a lot, there's a lot of giving to come at all, especially on these distant islands, but this isn't a real story, so when you tell someone to invest, we'll cut you down, though. But this territory, you have exactly one place, the border between the Primorje-Gorski County and Lika-Senjska. The one that's in Primorje-goranski won't, and the one that's 500 meters away will have something else. Why? Needless. Voting please.
ParlaMint-HR_2020-04-16-0.u200078	Thank you very much. That concludes our statement on the amendments. We move on to: Final draft law amending the Law on national spatial data infrastructure, second reading, P.Z.E. 835; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The amendment can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Your Honor, Secretary of State at the Department of Construction and Spatial Planning, Dunja Magash, please.
