ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. [[Rumors]] Firstly, questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Hernando Vera, Member of the Socialist Group, to the President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u2	Mr President of the Government, we want to clarify whether in your recent conversation with US President Trump he proposed that Spain increase its contribution to NATO and whether you in turn took an interest in the situation of the staff of the bases of Morón and Rota or in the agreement recently signed by your Government on Palomares. But in particular, Mr President, we would like you to stress whether you have raised any concerns with regard to the first steps taken by the American President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. I transferred my vision of the Spanish economy, that of Brexit, my opinion on the future of the European Union, which must be of greater integration; I explained to him that our bilateral relations were good and should continue to be good in the future - I spoke specifically about the relationship of investment and trade relations - and I explained to him the need to continue to cooperate in the area of security, defence and the fight against terrorism. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u6	Look, Mr President, Spain must undoubtedly have the best possible relations with the United States, but when the threats of Trump's campaign become reality, an ally must firmly defend his position and even show his concern and his disagreement. This has been done by the German Chancellor or the French President and no one doubts the solidity of the relations of those States with the United States. There are many reasons to be concerned, we have many, and you should be concerned, as President of the Government of Spain, about the human rights damage to millions of people within and outside the United States of the first steps of the American President. The President of the Spanish Government should be concerned about the relationship that Trump intends to have with Mexico and other countries of the Ibero-American community and you should be concerned, in short, about how the financial deregulation measures that Trump defends will affect Spain. Mr Rajoy, you had to take advantage of that conversation to be the spokesperson for all these concerns and for the Ibero-American community and for the European Union, and not to put yourself at the service of Trump and be his emissary and that of his policies, because you represent a country that is part of a community of interests, values and principles that you have to defend with pride. And never can an alleged reason for a State be the excuse for not defending human rights, as you have done, and for justifying policies that destabilize the international order, even if those policies come from the hands of the most powerful human populism in the world, because never being stronger means being more right. That is why today, Mr Rajoy, we want to tell you that we are neither identified nor proud of your performance as Spain's representative to President Trump, but rather we are ashamed of your performance. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u7	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. The truth is that I am not overly concerned about your intervention for a reason that you will understand very well. I know, I know, and I am absolutely convinced that if you were in the government instead of me, you would have done exactly the same thing. That's why I'm not worried about the future at all. [[Applauds]] With absolute frankness, Mr Hernando, Spain and the United States are strategic partners, friends and allies, we share values, our cooperation is important and our trade and investment relations too, we have common interests, and I want to have exactly the same relations with Mr Trump as I have with the former President of the United States, Mr Obama. Then, everyone has their convictions. We can disagree, and it is true that there will be things in which we do not agree, but in international relations, and in general in any facet of life, it is better to focus more on what is agreed than on what is disagreeable, and I practice it; I practice it with the President of the United States and with the rest of the Presidents of Government and Heads of State who have responsibilities of Government in the world. Therefore, that is my position and will remain so in the future. When I understand that there is something that harms the interests of the Spaniards, I will convey it and defend it because it is my duty as President of the Government. And the second is to get along well with all the countries, especially those with whom they are friends and allies. That is the position that you have held as long as you have been in the Government and, as I said at the outset, I am convinced that you will do so again in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u9	Thank you very much. - QUESTION OF THE DEPUTY GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHICH FORMS TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: ARE YOU IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE JUDICIALIZATION OF THE CATALAN PROCESS? [[File number 180/000110]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u10	Question also addressed to the President of the Government by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u11	Thank you very much, President. Mr President, the question is simple: do you agree with the judicialization of the Catalan self-determination process? And even simpler: Do you agree that an urn will take you to a courthouse and a microphone to the office of a ministry? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u12	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. There are two very different things. One thing is the political debate, in which decisions are taken by the body that says the law, either by Parliament, by the plenary, by the Bureau or by the government - therefore, we are talking about what is the pure political debate - and another very different thing from the political debate is the enforcement of the law, which obliges us all, politicians and those who do not engage in this activity. Therefore, when anyone, whether political or not, acts outside the law, justice intervenes. I can assure you that this is nothing exotic, that this happens in all the democratic countries of the world and it better happen this way because if, in the end, we have to distinguish between people who are not subject to the law and people who are, we will end up having a very serious problem. Therefore, all who are here and all who are out of here are equally subject to the law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u14	Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u15	Thank you very much. I think I understand that, Mr. President: the rule of law, your law. You call it not being exotic, but I think maybe it's being a little indecent. I have made a review of things that happen under his rule of law: for example, a law that allows Count-Dukes of Olivares to conspire from offices in the so-called Catalan operation, and nothing happens; a law that allows Guillem Agullo's killer to run for the election, and nothing happens; a law that allows us all to pay time of relaxation and casualty to very campesino people, and nothing happens; a law that allows for the reception of balls to people who come to this country to swim and who ultimately dies, and nothing happens; a law that allows a government with 4,500 seats, 1,200 volunteers and 45 municipalities willing to host hundreds of thousands of refugees to do so because you do not want, out of pure moral misery; a law that ultimately allows Carme Forcadell to be persecuted and defend, as his Minister of the Interior did, a suspected neo-Nazi. Let me tell you that there is no law above decency and that democracy is unstoppable; I repeat, unstoppable. I'll see you at the polls, Mr. Rajoy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u16	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u17	In all honesty, listening to you reminds me of that phrase - I don't remember exactly who used it - that in politics there is no impossible absurdity, Mr Rufián; there is no such thing. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] I'm going to explain to you some things that we all already know, but that I have no choice but to explain them to you. In our country there is freedom of thought, in our country no one is persecuted for his ideas, but if anyone acts outside the law, justice intervenes. What is not in our country is impunity. Mr. Rufián, basic rules of democracy. We are all subject to the law and most rightly so are the rulers and political leaders. The law is the same for everyone, and when someone skips it, justice comes in. That is the abject of democracy, that is what is done in all the countries in our environment, that is what is done in the most advanced countries and what is not done anywhere in those countries is what you are doing now, that when you are not right, to draw attention, you take out a role and do what I have said: the absurd - listening to you - of the policy we have. [[Mr. Rufián Romero shows a paper with photographs]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WILL THE GOVERNMENT AUTHORIZE THE RE-openING OF THE NUCLEAR CENTRAL OF SANTA MARIA DE GAROÑA? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00113]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u18	Question also addressed to the President of the Government by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, there has recently been a surprising announcement by the Nuclear Security Council dedicating its previous position and giving a positive report so that the Government can authorize the reopening of Garoña without the works that were requested by the Council itself in April 2015. For the first time a permit is also given for more than ten years, failing to comply with the safety guide of the council itself. Given these surprising decisions, will your Government authorize the reopening of Garoña?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Most importantly, the Government demands maximum security conditions for nuclear power plants, for nuclear power plants and for anyone. As you know, the company of Garoña has requested - I speak of the year 2014 - the renewal of the authorization of operation of the plant. The Nuclear Security Council issued its report in 2017 and requires two conditions: the execution of certain investments and the conduct of a periodic security review. From then on, the Government has six months to make the decision. Before the decision is taken, the Government will, inter alia, give a hearing to the Basque Government and to many institutions that have taken an interest in this matter; and before the hearing process, it will forward all the documentation to those persons who will then intervene in it. If the Government takes the decision, it will not yet be final, because the Nuclear Security Council will have to speak again. The Government has therefore not taken any decisions. We are in the state of the proceedings to which I have referred and we will listen to you and to anyone who has an interest in this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Esteban, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u23	Mr President, you are talking, by the Minister's mouth, about six months of consultation, but the works - if they were to be done - would need more than a year and a half, with which you would grant the authorization first and then the works would be done. Anyway, he's telling me they're gonna talk to everybody. Our opinion will now be heard from my mouth, but you already know it, and also from the vast majority of parliamentary groups. This is more than spoken and we all tell you to definitely close the possibility that you can open Garoña. What is behind all this, these surprising movements of the Nuclear Security Council, without the works that I had asked for being done, opening up the possibility of authorizing you already? It is a first generation center, the oldest in Spain. The reactor is of the same type as that of Fukushima; the oldest, I insist. Its 466 megawatts are simply 0.4 % of the installed power in Spain and do not reach 6 % of the installed nuclear power in Spain. It's nothing. Therefore, it will not reduce the price of electricity or much less. It is an old plant that has risks and stimulates the majority social and political rejection. Of course, we see no sense in it and it would be very striking - let us hope it does not happen - that the reopening could be authorized, even if it did not occur later because another Government or because a subsequent decision overturned the previous one, but that would result in a series of compensations that would have to be paid by all taxpayers. I believe that we have had enough disastrous experience in that regard before so that something like this will not be repeated again with the Garoña nuclear power plant. End the uncertainty already - you know what the majority position is politically and socially -, shut down the possibility that Garoña will be opened and tell us what is being sought with this kind of probe balloon that seems to launch the Nuclear Security Council more aimed at other power stations than Garoña.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. I understand your arguments and your reasoning, but I am the President of the Government and I have to comply with the procedures established by law. The first thing we need to see is, therefore, what the decision is taken by the company; secondly, the hearing procedure to which I referred earlier; and then comes the decision of the Government and, finally, the decision of the Nuclear Security Council. In any case, as I have said before, we will listen to you and all those institutions or social groups that have expressed their interest in giving an opinion on this matter. There are some institutions that are in favour of maintaining the Garoña nuclear power plant, such as the Junta de Castilla y León, and my position, the most prudent, the most reasonable and the most sensible, is to study thoroughly the reasoning and arguments of both of them and, in the end, to make a decision. Again I insist, we are in the middle of the process, you will be heard and we will try to make the best decision in defense of the general interests. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u26	Thank you very much. - OF ALBERT RIVERA DÍAZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO IMPLEMENT THE AMENDMENT OF THE APPOINTMENT SYSTEM OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL TRIBUNAL TO GUARANTEE HIS INDEPENDENCE? [[File number 180/00123]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u27	Question to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations. Question by Mr Albert Rivera Díaz, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u28	Thank you, President. Vice-President, the process is taking place these days for the re-election of four members of the Constitutional Court in the Senate, which, as everyone knows, is a decision affecting the independence of constitutional justice and the separation of powers. And we see with concern, Vice-President, that you and the PSOE do not seem to have understood that this country is changing. Names of proposals by former members of your party to preside over the Constitutional Court are beginning to be known, without the will or agreement of the various political parties in the Senate, and I am also aware that you continue to think that this is a good system. I remind you, Vice-President, that there was no agreement on this in the investiture agreement. Citizens disagree with this system in which Ferraz and Genoa divide the courts in this way. We want a true separation of powers. I ask you, Vice-President, whether the Government would be willing to reform this system of election, even though it is not in the investiture agreement, so that Parliament does not repeat itself in the courts. I am convinced that the courts cannot reproduce a parliament, that the courts must be independent, that there can be no former members of the PP or the PSOE before the courts of justice or constitutional justice. I ask you, Vice-President, are you prepared to reform the method of electing the members, the judges of the Constitutional Court? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u29	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. I hope, Mr Rivera, that the only thing we share with the Socialist Party, you and we, is responsibility for defending national sovereignty, equality before the law and the prevalence of it vis-à-vis any ruler. I very much appreciate that you chose this question this Wednesday to highlight the Constitutional Court and the great responsibility of defending our Constitution, and I can assure you that beyond the debate on appointments, which may be, this Government guarantees and will guarantee the independence of the Constitutional Court and, more importantly, compliance with its resolutions. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u32	That is precisely why, Vice-President, because the Constitutional Court plays a fundamental role in this democracy especially at a time when there is a challenge to the constitutional order, and that is why proposing former Members of your party or any other party to preside over the court is not a good idea, Vice-President, because if we want to tell the Spaniards that the Constitutional Court decides with absolute independence from the political parties, it does not seem to me a good idea that an ex-member of your party may be the President of the Constitutional Court. And I do not think it is a good idea for us to reproduce this House in a court of law, because a court is not a parliament, it is an independent body, and in this case you were saying it at the moment that it plays this fundamental role. That is why I ask you to be courageous, to end this judicial bipartisanism in order to move to a new political stage in which merit, capacity, independence and, ultimately, rigour are part of that election. I propose to you, Vice-President, that you join the reform that you are going to ask for Citizens in this Chamber of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court. Of course, we cannot and do not intend to do it alone. I hope to count on the support of the parties that have ruled this country for many years and I hope that you will be courageous in untying this Chamber of the Constitutional Court and the judiciary. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u33	Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u34	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to remind you that the President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Court are elected by their own members and by secret ballot. Beyond that, I will tell you that this Government values the independence of all institutions, including that of the Government itself. For us independence is, above all, respect for the law, primacy of the general interest and always prioritise the interest of the nation. So, with regard to what you are saying, I would like to point out a number of issues. First of all, in Spain, it is always common for some to criticize everything we have and it turns out that we name, if not identically, in a way very similar to the members of the Constitutional Court to the way the French, the Germans, the Italians and the Portuguese do, and I do not think that they have these criticisms about their system. Our system is much more rigorous, even in incompatibilities and appointments, because I will remind you that the main requirement of independence, I believe that for the Constitutional Court and for life, including politics, is merit and capacity. The best lawyers in this country have passed through the Constitutional Court: today there are five university professors, five judges of the Supreme Court and a lieutenant prosecutor of the Supreme Court. We can change the appointment, but I don't think we'll find them any more qualified. And finally, the greatest sign of their independence is their unanimity in the most important matters for the country, which shows that for these judges their first and only duty is with the Constitution they interpret and their sole responsibility to the Spanish people, whom they have the honour to serve. And let me tell you that the greatest sign of independence, of respect for independence, is not giving arguments to those who criticize it every day. Thank you very much, Mr Rivera. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON EDUARDO FERNANDEZ GARCÍA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE TO AGREE TO ACTIVIZE THE CLAIM PROCESS BY THE CITIZENS AFFECTED BY THE CLAUSES ONLY, IN ORDER NOT TO DILATE THE NORMAL FUNCTIONING OF THE ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE? [[File number 180/000115]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u35	Question addressed to the Minister of Justice of Mr Eduardo Fernández García of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, sometimes the political agenda can be foreseen with extended time frames and, at other times, the immediacy of the circumstances requires, as in this case foreclosures with abusive ground clauses, a concentration of reflection and solutions that makes simultaneously conciliable management and political decision-making. His ministry was taking the opportunity to implement that approach by combining efficiency, speed and legal certainty. The recent judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 21 December, demanding clarity and decision, and in the face of the temptation of others of inaction or overaction, is the immediate response of the Government focused on the real context. The promptness with which his ministry is acting in a matter which affects a large plurality of Spaniards and which requires unity of criteria, and which, together with speed, does so with the common sense of not causing the affected new headaches for an aspect such as the effectiveness of the charge, which we believe, in view of the clarity of the literal tenor of the judicial resolution, which has more procedural than substantive relevance. The problems we bring here often have a plurality of interests that are difficult to reconcile in balance, such as, in this matter, those of financial institutions and also those of some professional expectations of legal operators, all legitimate and all comprehensible, but for my prime group, Minister, the prevalence of citizens' rights. We must build public policies in the field of justice, which requires an analysis of the implications of this judgment, not in abstract terms, but in relation to our mechanisms of judicial guardianship and to the organizational and procedural possibilities which will also enable some of the conflicts to be resolved, even through extrajudicial means. That is why their predictions are correct in having a mechanism that makes what is desirable possible; the occurrences are left to others. That is the ambition, I am sure, that promoted Royal Decree 1/2017, but that also illuminates the forecasts that are made for the moment when it exceeds the deadline provided for in it for the exercise of shares. Minister, every minute we are offered very simple proposals for very complex problems. We believe that nothing is more ambitious, politically, than to serve people with realism and, therefore, I ask you for the most appropriate procedure for expectations that do not cause frustration to those affected or chaos and delay for the foreseeable increase in litigation over abusive mortgage clauses. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u37	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u38	Thank you, President. Your Honour, as you well say, the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 21 December has put on the table a complex reality that affects a good number of Spanish citizens and before which the Government - as we had the opportunity to debate with the validation of the decree-law that was approved - had to act, even if it was a relationship between individuals. It is the banks and the citizens who have to agree, but it seemed to us that minimum public intervention was necessary, firstly because it is a problem that affects a very large number of citizens and also because it could have a relevant impact on a public service such as that of justice. To this end, we have tried to articulate a system which, first of all, places an absolute focus on the consumer, on the citizen; secondly, which seeks to create an agile way for them to recover and recover their rights; and thirdly, and to the extent possible, so that there is no increase in the litigation that would result in an overload of work in the courts and tribunals. There are two lines for this. First, a preventive line - Decree-Law 1/2017 -, creating an out-of-court way, an agile way, a cost-free way for citizens, which we trust will work. The banking entities are already putting it into operation, and I am aware that Bankia and some other entity have declared that they are already functioning and are reaching agreements with their customers, always knowing that it is a voluntary system for citizens who will always have judicial guardianship afterwards. Secondly, an organizational solution. We are working with the General Council of the Judiciary to make provision, taking advantage of the mechanisms of article 98 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, for the possibility that claims in this regard may be concentrated in a court that, at the provincial level, centralizes all claims in this field. This court may be strengthened with as much resources as is necessary depending on the workload. Today, in the General Council of the Judiciary, the presidents of the higher courts of justice meet; next week we will have a meeting called the Joint Commission of the Judiciary and the Ministry of Justice, and all of this will allow the applications that are submitted, as I say, to have a specific organization, provincial courts dedicated exclusively to this, and therefore we trust that we will be able to find an effective solution on an out-of-court basis and also on a judicial basis for the applications that may be made. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u39	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA SORAYA RODRIGUEZ RAMOS, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF PROCEEDINGS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO RECTIFY THEIR INTENTION TO COVER VAT TO THE BENEFITS OF FREE JUSTICE? [[File number 180/000120]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u40	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by María Soraya Rodríguez Ramos, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u41	Thank you, President. Do you intend to rectify your proposal to apply 21 % of VAT to the free justice service?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u42	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u43	Thank you, Your Honor. Mrs Rodríguez, first of all, I would like to thank you for your question because this allows me to make it clear in this House that the beneficiaries of free justice are not going to pay VAT or otherwise. This is the essence of free justice, that those who benefit from it do not bear the costs that are generated, but that is done by the competent administration, whether it is the Ministry of Justice, in the case of the autonomous communities that have not transferred competence in this matter, or the autonomous communities themselves that have transferred it. There is a judgment of the High Court of Justice of the European Union, which is interpreted by the Directorate-General for Taxation to mean that it applies to Spain and that it is the public authorities which subsidise legal aid services and which are responsible for paying VAT. Therefore, neither the beneficiaries, which would be a contradiction, nor the judicial professionals responsible for implementing it, will do so. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u44	Thank you very much. Mrs. Rodriguez, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u45	Minister, for more than 30 years the free justice service has lived with VAT and with a very clear interpretation: free justice is a service that lawyers provide in a compulsory manner and is not subject to any kind of remuneration and is therefore free of VAT. This clear interpretation has been radically changed by the Directorate General of Taxes, by you. They now say that free justice is voluntary for professionals and is also onerous. The question we all ask ourselves is why this change of interpretation. Has anyone questioned our national system? The Constitutional Court, the Court of Justice, the Commission? No, no, There is a judgment of the European Court affecting Belgium and the Belgian national system, which has a legal basis clearly different from ours, which is voluntary and remunerated by the State. But with a crooked interpretation we cannot change the legal nature of our system, in which, under articles 24 and 119 of the Constitution, free justice, it is the professional colleges that have an obligation to ensure the continued provision of this service. But they do so through lawyers and prosecutors, who accompany us today in the rostrum, and you know very well that your voluntary assignment to a shift of office does not relieve all collegiates of the obligation to provide this service. When the free justice service is provided, it is not operated on the market, the customer is not chosen, no price is charged: it is operated under the public law regime and the State grants a subsidy. The service is therefore compulsory for the professional and free of charge 100 % for the beneficiary, not 79 %. Do not tell me, Mr Montoro, that you have become a Belgian in this to increase the free justice budget of the Ministry of Justice by 21%. No, no, This interpretation, which changes the legal nature of our system, is to keep you with 21% of the free justice budget and that professionals, schools, receive less subsidy than they receive. That's why I'm asking you to rectify. That is why I also tell the Minister of Justice not to make a Belgian and correct him so that he is not rectified. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u46	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u47	Thank you, Madam President. If the rulings of the High Court of Justice of the European Union do not make case law, they may not make it to you, but I would swear that all States must be subject. I have already told you that neither this applies to the beneficiary nor it applies to the professional. Is the administration going to pay for it? No, no, It will be paid by the Autonomous Communities and the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, this does not undermine the salaries of professionals. That being said, that is why we are in this House anyway. We are going to clarify this legally, we are going to work on clarification and adequacy, complying with the rules of the European Union directive. I offer the Socialist Group that we should do so together with the Ministry of Justice and clarify these points, but above all we should not be confused where there should be no further application of European standards. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u48	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTONIO HURTADO ZURERA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: HOW DOES THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS GET THE LAST INFORMATION ON TAX FRAUD? [[File number 180/00121]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u49	Question also addressed to the Minister for Finance and Public Service of Mr Antonio Hurtado Zurera of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u50	Thank you, President. Mr Montoro, what assessment does your ministry make of the report that has been made, in this case, by the UNIF in relation to what was its head in the government of José María Aznar and which reveals a scandalous reality, precisely from a miracle minister in his day. [[Shows a paper with the photo of Mr. De Rato Figaredo, which reads: 'Minister']] The report reveals what a real compulsive fraudster has defrauded, according to UNIF reports, up to EUR 6.8 million. [[Turns the paper around, with the above-mentioned photo of Mr De Rato Figaredo, which reads: 'compulsive defrauder']] How do you rate that report? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u51	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Hurtado, the appearance of news in the press about the activities of the Tax and Justice Agency have as protagonists people of social relevance and public interest, and that only confirms that in Spain the institutions work, that what does not work is impunity for no one. This information places great value on the investigative system, whether fiscal or police, in the face of any evidence of crime in our country. I have already told you enough in this House: as a member of the Government and as a Minister of Finance, I am proud to lead institutions that really act on those criteria of neutrality vis-à-vis whoever they are, whether they are in office, economically relevant or socially relevant. That is what gives the institutions in Spain reliability and security. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u53	Thank you very much. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u54	Minister, Spanish society is sick of phony. There are many points that have been made in this report; they are, in particular, Vice-President of the Government; they invoice the public sector, they also receive subsidies. [[Show the paper again with the photo of Mr. De Rato Figaredo reading: 'Compulsive defrauder']] Then you raised him to the International Monetary Fund where he laundered capital in tax havens. Subsequently, he devoted himself to giving lectures at the price of gold, in connivance with IBEX companies that invoiced intermediate companies. Later, you make him president of Bankia, where he buys wills through black cards and where he collects illegal commissions. Finally, Minister, you welcome your tax amnesty, a tax amnesty that is a true nest of white-collar fraudsters. Why didn't you act from the year 2000 to the year 2015? Why didn't you investigate in those moments so that this gentleman would stop defrauding? Why not, instead of going after the returned immigrants, instead of checking out the workers on behalf of others, investigate the huge fraud, the fraud nest you have in the 31,500 white-collar fraudsters who have hosted the tax amnesty? You would have plenty of resources there to cover the public deficit. And the worst, Minister, do you know what it is? That what this scandal does is undermine tax morality in this country. And that's what you're responsible for. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u55	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Of course we're responsible for everything! But can you say, Mr Hurtado, as you have just done, that there is no investigation? But if it's the other way around, if all this is the result of the tax agency's investigation! [[Applauds]] The meaning of a parliamentary question really must be safe and certain. At the press conference, after the Council of Ministers of 17 April 2015 - it will soon be two years - I have already warned that Mr.Rato's case is the result of an investigation by the Tax Agency that was carried out for quite a long time, based on Declaration 720, which is the one that obliges to declare goods and rights abroad. That is, therefore, the consequence of that investigation. What we have to celebrate is that we live in a country where, regardless of its profile, those people are being investigated, whoever they are. Now, what is regrettable that there are such indications? Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is regrettable; of course it is, but what does not exist in this country is impunity for no one. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF ANTONIO GOMEZ-REINO VARELA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE IN COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: WILL THE GOVERNMENT THROUGH THE SEPI TO SUPPORT THE APPOINTMENT OF FERNÁNDEZ ARMENIO MESA AND DÍAZ DE LA RIO AS INDEPENDENT SPANISH ELECTRIC NETWORK ON THE GENERAL BOARD OF ACTIONISTS OF THE ENTITY? [[File number 180/000111]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u57	Question, also addressed to the Minister of Finance and Public Service of the deputy Don Antonio GómezReino Varela, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u58	Thank you very much, President. Is the government going through SEPI to support the appointment of Arsenio Fernández de Mesa as independent councillor of Spanish Electric Network?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u59	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u60	The vote to which your honor refers is for the State Company of Industrial Participations to be held, at the time, at the board of directors of the company of Electric Network and the vote on the appointment of Mr Fernández de Mesa will be the same as those carried out in relation to all the independent advisers proposed by the company, which is the one that determines in all cases the professional profile that must be gathered by the adviser to be appointed. It is therefore neither for the Government to define the professional levels of such advisers nor for SEPI. It is the company itself that determines the suitability of a candidate to be on the board of directors as an independent representative. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u61	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Mr. Gómez-Kingdom, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u62	He performed a diffuse and confused coordination task. These are the words that the Provincial Court of A Coruña, in its judgment on the Prestige, said about the management of Mr Fernández de Mesa: diffuse and confused, Mr Montoro. Do you think he's a competent person? Not us, of course. Who do you want to cheat on? They name him primarily because he's a friend of the boss, because he's a friend of Mr. Rajoy's; that's why they name him. His Government appointed a person without any knowledge in this field, in the field of energy, to a key position in that sector. It is a new obscene case of rotating doors; corruption, Mr Montoro, legal corruption but, after all, corruption. It is, as always, about supporting the family, it is called Trillo, Bárcenas, Rat or Fernández de Mesa; payment of favors for silence, golden retreat, dirty work that we pay well and that is what we call the law of the omertà of the People's Party. The Cadenero, as they called Mr Fernández de Mesa in his city for his relationship with extreme right-wing groups, will charge 175,000 euros, more than seventeen times the interprofessional minimum wage. For families, poverty, and for friends of the People's Party, opulence and omertà. [[Applauds]] This, gentlemen of the People's Party, is the picture of Spain that we do not want. [[Show a photograph of Mr. Fernández de Mesa y Díaz del Río]] It is the photo of an old regime in decay, the photo of the Prestige and incompetence, the photo of the human rights violation and the Tarajal, the photo of corruption and the revolving doors. Corruption, never again! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u63	Minister. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u64	Thank you, Madam President. You have been very bright, of course, very bright for your audience. So being the director of the Civil Guard is equivalent to corruption? [[Mr. Iglesias Turrion: No, no.-Rumors]] This good gentleman in this House has just said so. [[Protests.-A Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress speaks words that are not perceived]] Did you just say it like that, or was it that I wasn't here and I didn't hear it? [[Protests]] You make the speeches... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u65	One second. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, one second. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you all to respect and silence for the speaker, who is currently the Minister of Finance and Public Service, the same respect that all honourable Members deserve. [[Rumors]] I see that my words continue to have little effect and I, ladies and gentlemen, have a very complicated function, but I can assure you that order will be maintained in the House. The first thing to do is to respect, if you want us to be respected by the citizens, and that respect is earned here every day, from morning to night and is won fundamentally by respecting those who can be their political opponents but they are all parliamentarians who represent the Spaniards. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Respect; respect for people who have held public office, who have been Members of this House for many years precisely in matters of national defence. Respect, respect, what a great word for democracy, ladies and gentlemen, but to some of you respect does not go, does not go, and I remind you that you are in democratic institutions, with democratic procedures. I suppose some of you will aspire to change them, work for it, but do not generically disqualify people because what you just did this morning is really a disqualification of people who have exercised the best they have known positions of maximum responsibility in Spanish democracy. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]] - BY JUAN CARLOS GIRAUTA VIDAL, BY THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHY DIDN'T YOUR MINISTER OF RODRIGHT FOLLOWING THE FISCAL AMNISTIA DECIDED IN 2012? [[File number 180/000124]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u67	Question also addressed to the Minister of Finance and Public Service, Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u68	Minister, there was a very important man in this country whom you may have forgotten. It was called Rodrigo Rato, and the oblivion could be due to political reasons, but - what worries me most - also to reasons that have to do with the tax. Why didn't he watch over Don Rodrigo Rato's ministry after taking advantage of the tax amnesty in 2012? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u69	Thank you very much. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u70	Thank you, Madam President. I have already had the opportunity - and I am sure Mr Girauta has heard it - to explain that the Tax Agency actually acted, and in this case opened an investigation to Mr Rat not following the extraordinary tax declaration but the next one, which was in 2013, when the declaration with model 720 is made in application of Law 7/2012. Therefore, Your Honor, you are recognizing this in the content of your own question: that investigation has already been made, and I said it publicly at the press conference following the Council of Ministers on 17 April 2015. Therefore, what we have to do is to identify and accept naturally that in Spain the institutions operate and investigate, regardless of the relevance that people have at the time. It has described this morning as regrettable the fact that only indications are drawn from such investigations. Of course, I am also very personally sorry, as you will understand, but it is clear that the institutions in our country are working and it is also clear that the Tax Agency is one of those great institutions in Spain. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Girauta.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u72	Of course, I'm not suggesting institutions don't work. His explanation is fine, unless we apply the magnifying glass and look at the chronology. In 2012, you placed the head of the tax agency who had been the chief of staff of Don Rodrigo Rato, a lady who blocked the investigation of the list of amnesty beneficiaries. Already in 2015, the new director of the Tax Agency announced that 705 statements were being investigated from which the tax amnesty had been hosted, but the Government refused to publish the list. Mr. Rato acknowledged that he had been welcomed and, moreover, as he was published - and you will tell me whether or not it is true - he assured himself that he had informed you personally that he intended to benefit from it. In July 2015, the Minister of the Interior received Don Rodrigo Rato in his office when Mr.Rato was already accused of fraud, documentary falsity and misappropriation, and after two years of investigations, it is now, in 2017, when we know that there are unreported rents above 14 million and quotas allegedly defrauded worth almost 7 million euros. Mr Montoro, the fiscal amnesty has been deeply harmful, has been deleterious to the values of the Spanish fiscal conscience and, let me tell you, you have represented - by the role you embody - the strength with the weak and the weakness with the strong, which seems to me to be unbuilding. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u73	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u74	Thank you, Madam President. You've ended up with a phrase from those rhetorics that I don't know if I identify you with the CEO's president, who just made some statements saying I'm worse than we can for the big companies in Spain. [[Laughter]] So I don't know what to think about where one is anymore. Do you know where one is, as Minister of Finance and Public Service? In compliance with the law, and in Spain there has been no fiscal amnesty, despite some, who have made a political construction that I don't know where they get it from. A tax amnesty is not to declare the property at an interest rate with names and surnames, and the obligation from there to identify the origin of that income. That's not an amnesty. Amnesty is what the socialist governments did, an amnesty of anonymous people where it was never known who had taken care of it. [[Rumors]] Not here, here we investigate, how it is being highlighted in this case, and from there the outflow through model 720... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u75	Thank you very much, Mr Montoro. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA MERCÈ PEREA I CONILLAS, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHY THE GOVERNMENT HAS DECIDED THAT PENSIONISTS HAVE LOST POWER PURCHASING? [[File number 180/000118]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u76	Questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. Question by María Mercè Perea i Conillas, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u77	Thank you, President. Why has the government decided that pensioners should lose purchasing power?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u78	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ms. Perea, the only government that decided that pensioners would lose purchasing power was the Socialist government in 2011. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u80	Mrs. Perea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u81	At this point, you, of inheritance, nothing. They have been headlines for five years; five years and have done nothing. Minister, we're going to give you another chance. Repeal the 2013 pension reform, which leads to a reduction in the pension, just when our elders are more dependent on us. Lift the veto on this initiative, promoted at the request of the social partners and presented by the absolute majority of this House, and allow pensioners to regain their purchasing power. It is urgent to return to the moment when social dialogue was lost because of its fault and thus avoid the impoverishment of pensioners. We have given that opportunity to you and to the citizens - who, by the way, have blocked it - and we are going to give you that opportunity again, so that the pensioners can recover that 1,75 % that you are already going to lose, plus 1 % of the pharmaceutical co-payment, of which we seem to quickly forget here. We have warned you and you have denied, as active and passive, that the 2013 reform would have negative effects. Well, he's here, we warn him, we announce him, we tell him. To decouple the revaluation of price pensions, i.e. of the CPI, is as much as to condemn more than 9.5 million people to poverty. And you keep looking the other way. It seems that it is the general focus of this Government, to let the days pass to see if it prescribes or to see if it happens and no longer remember. They know that there is no need to wait for the adoption of the recommendations of the Toledo Pact to do so. They can do so either by decree - those decrees to which we have been so well accustomed these five years - or by lifting the veto. The austere, minister, practiced by your right all these years has been not only negative for the citizens but also for the economy, has been detrimental to consumption and has therefore led to a weakening of the welfare state. And it's not just this group, it's said by all the attendees who pass through the Toledo Pact, as well as by some of those who participated in this 2013 committee of experts. And I'm finishing up. Madam Minister, I blame you for what you say that the CPI is no longer being carried away. It will not be taken in the People's Party government. All I'm telling you is that the other day I shaved your letter, your pamphlet, and today I tell you that, in another letter, a retired man from Barcelona told you that you need a great dose of cynicism and frivolity to present a letter like this. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u82	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, it is a bad memory of you, because the only government in democracy that froze pensions was the Socialist government. [[Rumors]] Do you know how much the pensioners lost that year?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u84	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u85	EUR 2.7 billion. Do you know what's happened since 2011? Pensions rose every year: 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2016. And you know what happened back then? That have won 1.1 billion euros the pensioners in Spain. [[A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived.- Rumours]] It's true, ladies and gentlemen, here are the statistics.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u86	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u87	You tell me about the pension revaluation rate.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u88	One second, Your Honor. One second, Minister. I remind you of what I said to you ten minutes ago: a respect for all the speakers. Go ahead, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u89	Mrs Perea, whether you like it or not, since the pension revaluation rate is in force, pensioners have earned 1.65 points, 1.905 million euros; 2014, 499 million euros; 2015, 878 million euros; 2016, 528 million euros. So, Your Honor, in this legislature from 2012 to 2016, there has been no loss of purchasing power from pensioners and pensions have risen every year. So, Mrs. Perea, don't tell lies, tell truths. And I tell you more, see if that's how, according to the quality of life survey, the only social stratum in Spain that has seen its income rise during the crisis has been the pensioners, which we are all happy about here in the House. Moreover, your honor, the poverty rate among the over sixty-five years old in Spain has been halved since 2007 to 2016 thanks to the annual increase in pensions, especially in recent years. [[Rumors]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I expect the Socialist Group to be responsible. The Toledo Pact is open, we are talking, we are familiar with everyone's proposals and I hope that with commitment and responsibility we will be able to find a good agreement to guarantee pensions for today and tomorrow as well. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] - OF THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT VALUATION DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RESULT TO WHICH IT IS COMMITTED IN THE SOCIAL DIALOGUE, FOLLOWING THEIR COMMITMENTS, IN THE MATTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY? [[File number 180/000119]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u90	Question by Mr Rafael Simancas Simancas, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, also to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u91	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, in your appearance last December you assured us that the key to your policy in this legislature would be social dialogue. He even spoke to us about the strong social dialogue - this was the adjective -, you were then talking to us about a dialogue table with employers and trade unions to improve quality in employment, you were talking to us about dialogue with the autonomous communities to promote active policies, you were talking to us about dialogue on conciliation, rationalization of timetables, you were talking to us about global dialogue within the framework of the ILO. Moving forward firmly to a pact, he was telling us; but today we know that the Autonomous Communities blame you for a lack of dialogue about the activation strategy for employment that should be in force since 1 January. Entrepreneurs are angry with you because you do not develop the Training Act well and the unions have just called you fifty demonstrations next Sunday against your labour policy. Finally, Madam Minister, I do not want to make hasty assessments, but it gives me the feeling that this from strong social dialogue and the firm progress pact to pact has some little problem than another. You will tell us, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u92	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, you must be better informed, not just by teletypes; at least read the teletypes well and distinguish between what is the bipartite dialogue between trade unions and employers by the collective bargaining agreement and wage increases of 2017, which is what this weekend's concentrations are all about, and the tripartite dialogue. I tell you that the tripartite dialogue, Mr Simancas, is moving forward with a firm step, with commitment and responsibility. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u94	Mr. Simancas, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u95	Madam Minister, next Sunday's demonstrations are fundamentally against the government's labour policy, against its labour policy. You see, five years ago you practically imposed a labor reform that has brought us back forty years in the area of labour rights, Minister. The balance is devastating: in average values, during 2016 we had 69,000 workers less busy than in 2011 and we had 265,000 undefined employees less than in 2011. This is the balance sheet of their labour reform: less occupation, more precariousness, less wages, more exploitation, more poverty. There will be no dialogue with any expectation of success that will not lead to the repeal of labour reform and the recovery of workers' rights. And if you enshrine yourself in the defense of precarious work and in the cutting of workers' rights you will not go forward with pact to pact firmly: you will retreat to failure. Repeal the labor reform or we will do so with the strength of the votes, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u96	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Simancas, with the strength of the vote, this government has been validated by the citizens in the ballot boxes by economic reforms that have allowed two million fewer unemployed people in Spain and that we have recovered one in two jobs destroyed by the crisis. Your Honor, much remains to be done, says the Government, and will move forward with agreement in the social dialogue. On Monday, two days ago, I had the opportunity to open the new dialogue table with working groups to move forward on what I said in my appearance, which is certainly very well known to you, Mr Simancas: working for more and better jobs, for quality employment. We will talk about stability, we will talk about training, we will of course talk about conciliation and also about combating fraud and how to strengthen collective bargaining. At the second table we will talk about something that worries us and is that no one is left behind by the crisis, long-term unemployed, programmes for unemployed people with family responsibilities, social card... That's where we're going to keep moving together. By the way, tomorrow the BOE will publish the extension of the Preparation Plan, a mechanism that we have strengthened in this legislature and that has allowed 693,000 people who have been detained for long periods of time with family responsibilities to have a temporary opportunity until they return to employment. In addition, Mr Simancas, we will talk about safety and health at work and we will talk about mutuals at another table. And, as you know very well, the pension working table is also under way in the social dialogue. He talks about training, because we will talk about vocational training in employment and we will talk about dual training because it is crucial for the employment and employability of workers and for the competitiveness of businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to move forward together with responsibility and commitment to continue creating jobs, which is what this country needs primarily, and to make that job more quality every day. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u98	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ESTER PEÑA CAMARERO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ENERGY, TOURISM AND DIGITAL AGENDA: WHAT intends the GOVERNMENT TO RE-open THE GUARONE NUCLEAR CENTRAL? [[File number 180/000122]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u99	Questions to the Minister for Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda. Question by Mrs Esther Peña Camarero from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u100	Thank you, President. Minister, now seriously, what is the Government's intention to reopen the Santa María de Garoña nuclear power plant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u101	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u102	Your Honor, as the President of the Government has said, what we are now trying to do is open a public hearing and listen to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs. Peña.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u104	You haven't answered me, Mr. Nadal. All of a sudden, they have no political position or they don't agree or maybe they're hiding the truth from us. Because his government, that of the People's Party, has been making decisions about Garoña for many years. Look, Minister, I will make it clear to you: you will have us in front of you as long as you continue to play with Garoña, with security and with the interests of the citizens of the area. The Socialists are going to present a proposal for a law to finally close the plant. Remember that they have the parliamentary majority against on this issue. That's why they have a good chance to start telling the truth. They want to give 60-year operating permits to Fukushima's twin nuclear power plant while prohibiting it from generating electricity because it is not safe, because three years ago the CSN itself demanded security investments that have not been made to date. We also asked you a few months ago to come to Parliament to explain what was going on with Garoña and did not. Who will believe in this opportunity for dialogue that they are opening? Tell the truth, this isn't Garoña's. What they are working for is to shield for decades the Spanish energy model in favor of the accounts of the big electrics; to make it familiar to them, they would be giving a deferred license. Thus, no Government, following an open and participatory debate to change the energy mix of this country that reduces the cost of energy or promotes the use of renewable energy, will be able to change the energy policy without having to pay millions of dollars to electricity. Meanwhile, the Reindus were loaded into Miranda, Las Merindades and La Bureba. You promised a central and an alternative plan; five years later, neither central nor plan. And of the 1,500 jobs you promised today, only 130 remain, from neighbors of a land that has been very generous to you and to those who continue to deal with so much contempt. It would be better if they were at last told the truth. Because those of us who have been talking loud and clear about this issue for years now, time is giving us reason, but we do not want to be right, we want what is right: closure, a participatory dismantling plan and an alternative economic recovery plan to stop defending ourselves from their attacks, from insecurity and from the interests that are not those of the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u105	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u106	Look, Mrs Peña, I don't know how you do energy policy - well, I do know how you did energy policy - but the People's Party government does it by meditating a lot on things, listening to everyone and opening public hearing processes so that everyone who has very different views on this issue will participate. Because they do not think the same of the workers, the companies, the Board of Castile and León as the Government of Euskadi, that of Álava, that of the Government of Navarre. I am talking about the institutions that have so far been interested in giving their opinion. I can tell you the same about some environmental organizations like Green Peace or Ecologists in Action. Everyone wants to express their opinion, and I think it is welcome that everyone should first receive the information, that the public hearing should be opened, that everyone should make their allegations and then make the relevant decisions. Because energy policy involves us all for the very long term. That's what we have to take into account and not the kind of decisions you made when you were in the government. I'll explain a few. For example, speaking of favoring large companies, the TTCs made them you and gave billions of euros to electricity companies. I will give you another example: the state guarantee for the debt of the tariff deficit. This guarantee from the State, which has linked to the rating of Spain, was precisely a gift to the electricity sector as I have never seen another in my life. With this I am telling you that the electricity reform avoided a 42% rise in the price of electricity. You had committed so many costs in the system that the Spanish would have increased electricity by 42% and much of that adjustment was made in the transport and distribution systems that directly affect the large companies you say. The only government that has taken the bull by the horns and has been able to overshadow the situation of the electricity system, which was bankrupt by its irresponsible decisions, has been the People's Party Government. From there, we are not going to make irresponsible decisions, we are not going to act for ideological reasons, we are not going to rush, we are going to make decisions in a calm and sensible way. Above all, we are concerned about something that you do not care about: the situation of the workers in the central and the economic situation in the region, which you want to sacrifice simply because you want to do politics. They want to do politics, take vows and sacrifice jobs, and that we take very seriously; you don't. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON JUAN ANTONIO LÓPEZ DE URALDE GARMENDIA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ENERGY, TOURISM AND DIGITAL AGENDA: WILL THE GOVERNMENT RE-open THE NUCLEAR GUARONE CENTRAL? [[File number 180/000112]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u107	Question by Mr Juan Antonio López de Uralde Garmendia, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u108	Minister, you have just said that you are going to listen to all the parties; unfortunately, however, your boss, Mr Rajoy, said at the beginning of the morning that the decision of the company is the first in the matter of Garoña. At least for my group, the important thing, the important thing, the first thing is the safety of people and the environment, and we are talking about a dangerous and obsolete power plant, a power plant with twin reactor number 1 of the Fukushima power plant, a power plant that has not contributed for four years or a kilowatt to the network, so it is false that it has the slightest impact on the price of light, and that generates an immense rejection of public opinion and the majority of this House. Are you going to reopen the Garoña nuclear power plant?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u109	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u110	Mr López de Uralde, the president has said one thing logically and it is that the owners of the plant are the company and the company, of course, has to participate in the decision-making process. From there I tell you what I have just said to your colleague in the Socialist Group. There are six months ahead to make a decision, but you have to listen and inform everyone. For this reason, the hearing procedure will come after everyone who has an interest in the file can study it carefully, because the subsequent procedure of allegations is relatively short and we want everyone to be willing to give their opinion. You know that it is an issue that has enormous complexity and on which not everyone thinks the same. You have an opinion that is perfectly legitimate and defendable and will have the ability to argue what you need in the hearing process, but other people have another totally different opinion. The Government, of course, puts security ahead of everything and that is why we did not want to take a decision, even immediately after what the Nuclear Security Council has said, because once it has taken a decision on the issue of security, which is always the priority in nuclear matters, it is necessary to wait for other views and considerations that are taken into account before taking a decision. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u111	Thank you very much. Quiet. Mr. López de Uralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u112	Minister, you know that the Nuclear Security Council's decision has been an unprecedented one. A number of requirements are asked of the Nuclenor company, the Nuclenor company does not comply with them, and yet the Nuclear Security Council, which you control and dominate with a majority that have already taken charge of getting into it, gives a favourable opinion to the nuclear power plant. Minister, you are stealing a social and political debate about what should be done with the old nuclear power stations, acting on a policy of fait accompli. You have already decided that nuclear companies should extend their lives for sixty or seventy years or as long as companies want. And, for greater scandal, they use Garoña as a smokescreen behind which they are plotting the new great gift that they are going to make to the energy oligopoly, that nuclear power plants last and last. The rupture of the essential water system in Vandellós II or the subsequent leakage of Ascó particles were not sufficient to indicate the bad practices of some nuclear power managers. We were on the verge of a serious accident, but they don't learn the lesson. Minister, Garoña has been closed for four years now and the threat of reopening generates a great social and political alarm. That is why the future of the plant cannot depend on the interests of Nuclenor, Endesa and Iberdrola. It must be the subject of a political decision. If you decide to reopen it, you will not only be putting the safety of people and the environment at risk, but you will also be giving the weapon of loss of profits to the owner company, as has already happened to the Castor, because you have no doubt that Garoña will never work. Stop playing with the safety of people and the environment and close Garoña now. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u113	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u114	Mr López de Uralde, as I say, I believe that this debate requires calm. We have a lot of time ahead of us to make a decision and this is really important. I am concerned that you have called into question the independence of the Nuclear Security Council. Four of its five members voted in favour of the report, which, by the way, came from the technical body of that council. I do not know whether you think that the people working on the Nuclear Security Council are not sufficiently professional, do not do their job well or do not adequately take care of our country's nuclear security. I'm of the opposite opinion. It is one of the most well-known nuclear safety councils in Europe and is acting with great precision. Proved is how well these kinds of issues work within our country. In these things we must not demagogue, we must be sensible and know that they are very delicate issues. We can have all the debates you want in Parliament and we must have them, but it is not just a political issue, it is a social and, above all, a security issue. We must listen to everyone who has something to say, because I think we need to make this debate very calmly and sensibly. I don't know what you think. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u115	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN BALDOVI RODA, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ENERGY, TOURISM AND DIGITAL AGENDA: WHAT DID THE MINISTER OF ENERGY, TOURISM AND DIGITAL AGENDA OF THE GOVERNMENT, ALVARO NADAL, WANTED TO DETERMINE THE MINISTER OF ENERGY, TOURISM AND DIGITAL AGENDA OF THE GOVERNMENT, AT THE HIGHEST PRICES AT DETERMINED TIMES, AND AT A DYNAMIC WITH A LOT OF VOLATILITY [[ENERGY]] PRICES? [[File number 180/000108]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u116	Question also addressed to Mr Baldoví Roda, Minister of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Minister, last week we heard some of your statements with a great deal of stupefaction. He was telling us that citizens will have to get used to much higher electricity prices. What exactly did you mean by that?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u118	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u119	Mr Baldoví, you have been in politics for many years and you know that parliamentary questions to the government cannot be made on the basis of biased headlines, but on what the member of the government - in this case, this minister - said precisely. I suppose you're referring to the statements I made last Monday that, of course, were not the ones you just quoted.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u121	That's what all the papers said. All the papers may be wrong, but you said that. You also said that this year the electricity would rise 100 euros and that sounds to me conformism, to the mystery of the rosary, to that third mystery that says: 'I promise to carry with resignation the pains, discomforts and tribulations that I must suffer'. Minister, if you say that we have no choice but to get used to it, if you are already launching that message of conformism, if you are pulling the towel, what do we really want an Energy Minister for?, to ask us to resign, to announce new climbs instead of taking measures to reduce electricity? We suffer - and I say we suffer - the third most expensive electricity in all of Europe and you seem to lose the battle to lower prices. I ask you, why don't you try to make us look like the countries that have the cheapest electricity? I think I'd be smarter. Why don't you try to change the pricing system instead of announcing that this year you're going to raise 100 euros? We would like you to announce just the opposite, that this year is going to lower the price of electricity 100 euros. That would be much more pleasant news. Why isn't self-consumption promoted? If self-consumption were encouraged, businesses and families producing their own electricity would lower the price of their bill, surely paying less. Why are the electricity produced by nuclear power, which is already more than amortized, or hydraulics, which are appropriated to everyone's water, charged at the price of heat or gas? Why is photovoltaic energy not promoted and its installation not encouraged? Mr. Nadal, don't ask us to pray the rosary and not to resign. Free us from discomfort and tribulation. Lower the receipt from the light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u122	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u123	Mr Baldoví, what I said in your day is a purely technical question: as we introduce more environmental objectives in terms of renewables, the system has more rigid and interruptible energy, and therefore its management is more difficult. As it is more difficult to manage, what we are clear is that there will be quite often those winter peaks, like the ten days we had at high prices in January - I said nothing more than that - and we will have to have more systems for demand management, which today are very little developed in our country and in the vast majority of the countries in our environment. Those were my statements and not others. It is a question that anyone who knows about energy will corroborate because it is what happens when we introduce rigid and intermittent energy into a system. From there, your honor knows perfectly well that the electrical system has two costs; one of them is the fixed cost, which we have to have for the system to work. Every day, when we get home and turn on the switch, there is a system that is at our disposal for that electricity to flow and, whether we use it or not, we have to pay for it. That is what we do here, in these General Courts and in the Government, is the regulated part. The regulated part we have frozen is what depends on politics; it depends on what you propose to me, what I accept and what is voted on in this House. That is frozen unless we continue to make proposals to increase the cost. You tell me about the self-consumption. In certain cases - in the vast majority - self-consumption means for those who self-consumption reduce their fixed cost but increase the fixed cost to others. I think that's not fair, you can think that yes, I don't think so. The same thing we can talk about all the decisions we make in energy policy is the regulated part, it's what we've frozen this year and it's what doesn't change. What's the difference? The market situation, which depends on many things: weather, the European situation, oil prices. And there we have the same system as twenty-three other European countries, Mr Baldoví. I do not think that we are too exotic - as the President of the Government said earlier - having the same system as there are twenty-three other European countries. It is a system that works according to an algorithm that is unique throughout Europe, so we have the same system as virtually all the countries in our environment. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u124	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON JAVIER RUANO GARCIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ENERGY, TOURISM AND DIGITAL AGENDA: WHAT MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT MARKING TO HELP TO CHILDREN AND ADOLESCENTS TO INCREASE SECURITY IN THE NETWORK? [[File number 180/000116]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u125	Question also addressed to the Minister for Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda, Mr Javier Ruano García, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u126	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, in Spain 95% of minors are regular Internet users and 70% have mobile phones. More specifically, 30% of children under the age of 10 have access to the Internet, up to 79% for children under the age of 13 and 90% for children under the age of 15. We all agree that the Internet is a paid field for the commission of particularly serious crimes, both for ease of access and for the anonymity it provides. This situation is reflected on a daily basis in our schools, in our society, with a multitude of cases of school harassment and other types of behaviour that are extraordinarily harmful, especially to the most vulnerable sector of the population, such as our children and adolescents. Evidence of this is the data available to us: in 2016, 115,000 cybersecurity incidents were recorded that affected our citizens and in particular harmed the most defenceless, our minors. We are aware that the Government is committed to this issue and that it has promoted various measures to promote the safe and responsible use of the Internet and of new technologies, with minors being a priority on the social agenda of this Government, which is undoubtedly advancing in the protection of the rights of the most unprotected and sensitive to the risks of the network. This is evidenced by the reforms carried out by the Government, such as the recent reform of the legislation on children in the X Legislature, which guaranteed a legal framework for uniform protection and combating violence against children, or the reform of the system for the protection of children and adolescents through the Organic Law 8/2015, which establishes a new legal framework in which the interests of the child prevail and in which all their rights are strengthened. In this context, Minister, my question is: what measures is the Government taking to help children and adolescents increase safety in the network? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u127	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u128	Thank you. Mr Ruano, you are absolutely right, today children and adolescents are the most intensive users in the use of the Internet and far exceed the average levels of penetration in the whole of Spanish society. One in three Internet users are children, 95% of minors are Internet users and 70% have their own mobile phone. This implies not only great opportunities but also enormous risks, as they are the most vulnerable part of the population, by the way. We find, for example, that a father or a mother verify that their child has been introduced with a virus, something that happens with a certain frequency, and they have to eliminate all the school jobs and restart the computer. These are things that happen every day. It is very worrying for the adult population to see how unprotected the young population is. But there are also many additional problems, such as Internet harassment, school harassment, which also exists, or even sexual harassment, which occurs too often, to the misfortune of all of us. The Government is seeking solutions to this situation through many instruments. Firstly, awareness-raising activities, with workshops in educational centres, which are very successful; there are events in the family and in Cybercamp - last year, for example, 4,700 children/young people and 13,000 assistants, in this case - and specific training activities. But what probably has more relevance is that last February 7th a new initiative was approved within the Incibe called Internet Segura For Kids, for minors, for children. It is integrated into the European Network of Internet Security Centres and the aim is to promote the safe and responsible use of the Internet and new technologies by minors and their environment. The main tasks are to sensitize them and train them with outreach campaigns, to provide a helpline service, which is already in place - this is very important - which can be used for any doubts, as in the case I have put before them, cases of harassment or similar, and to reduce the availability of criminal and malicious content, in collaboration with the Ministry of the Interior and the Security Forces and Bodies. It is a much more efficient, much more powerful, overall surveillance system of the entire computer network of our country in support and protection of children, as well as of individualised treatment, through that line that I have mentioned to you earlier. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u129	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA ASCENSION CARREÑO FERNÁNDEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES, FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT: WHAT ESTIMATES THE GOVERNMENT ON THE VALUE OF AGRICULTURE IN THE YEAR 2016? [[File number 180/000114]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u130	Question to the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment, by Mrs María Ascension Carreño Fernández, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, it is tangible that the agri-food sector has been consolidated as the first industry in the economy, accounting for 10% of GDP and providing more than 2.3 million jobs, providing wealth in rural areas and increasingly competitive in international markets, more innovative and powerful both within and outside Spain. In our view, the efforts, presence and success of his Government in the negotiations in Europe have enabled a huge amount of Community funds and, in addition, a very positive CAP for our agricultural and fisheries sector, a CAP that has created jobs, increased income and contributed to economic growth. I would like to stress that the fact that the CAP is a priority for your government, Minister, has resulted in farmers having greater stability today, and all together with the stake in agricultural insurance, as that fundamental tool in agricultural policy to ensure the maintenance of the income of our farmers and farmers. The recruitment of agricultural insurance is gradually increasing to levels never before known. I would like to take this opportunity to recall that from 1996 to 2003, with policies of the People's Party governments, agricultural incomes increased by 30%, that between 2003 and 2010, with socialist policies, there was a 15% decrease in agricultural incomes and that over the last five years of the People's Party administration, too, there has been an increase in agricultural incomes. Therefore, Minister, what estimate does the Government have on the value of agricultural income in 2016? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u132	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u133	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, according to the estimate made by the Ministry, the value of agricultural income in current terms has reached EUR 25,687.7 million in 2016. This means an increase of 6.9% over 2015. The production of the agricultural sector also reached EUR 46,807 million. This is a historical record. The year 2016 has been a record year in the value of fruit production and extremely positive values have been achieved in the pig and olive oil sector. Comparing the variations in national agricultural income in the Community context, I can tell you that in the European Union there is a steady decline in agricultural income per AAU, per unit of agricultural work, of 2.1%, while in Spain there is an increase of 4.4%. In this way, Spain regains the European Union's first place in 2016 in terms of the value of agricultural income, with a difference of more than €3 billion over Italy and France. I am very aware of the volatile nature of agricultural income because it depends on multiple factors, also on climatic factors or prices with international levies, so it is advisable to carry out an analysis of its evolution in the medium and long term for its best assessment. From the mid-1990s, agricultural income grew to its peak in 2003. There began a downward trend; in the last year of the previous government the income was 15% lower than that of four years earlier and, however, the income today is 15% higher than that of 2011. Your Honor, this is the result, above all, of the capacity, effort and sacrifice of our farmers and farmers, but it is also important to create the right conditions, with measures to facilitate income growth. I am talking about the negotiation and implementation of the CAP, the measures taken to improve competitiveness, negotiating capacity and sectoral vertebration, through laws as important as the food chain, cooperative integration, together with the promotion of the internationalization of the sector, among other measures. In short, we have been implementing initiatives over the past five years aimed at improving the profitability of our primary sector, to which we will continue to devote all our efforts. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u134	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA MARIA GARCIA PUIG, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO FIND OUT WITH THE MACHIST VIOLENCE THAT KILLED 12 WOMEN A LITTLE MORE THAN A MONTH? [[File number 180/000107]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u135	Question addressed to the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality, Mrs María del Mar García Puig, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u136	Thank you, President. Sixteen women, ladies and gentlemen, sixteen women killed by sexist violence in a month and a half, although as always official figures will forget many of them, since his Government continues to unquantify feminicides, one of the historical demands of the feminist movement in our country. The State has an obligation to protect the right to life of its citizens and yet we see how every few days its Government fails to guarantee that right. Let's go from minute of silence to minute of silence, while out there a real femicide is taking place, while we're being killed for being women. What is your Government waiting for, Minister, to take drastic, urgent and effective measures that will bring about what we say: Not one less? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u137	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u138	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, our first words are of firm and strong condemnation of the violence against macho women; it is a matter of state and a priority for this Government to put an end to this scourge and to the pain of the women, their children and their families who suffer it. It is the responsibility of the government, but it is also the responsibility of society as a whole and of all the public authorities in this House. Only together can we end the macho violence. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u139	Mrs. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u140	Madam Minister, you are talking about a state pact, a compromise that, of course, we support and share. However, let me remind you of a very recent past and tell you that cuts in the fight against machismo kill. Since 2010, the budget for the prevention of male violence has been cut by 26%. All this in spite of the pernicious rise of 6% of the PP government in 2016; a rise that, let me tell you, in view of the results and the murders, is a real insult to all women. The women on the street, the experts at the tables, the professionals who beat copper every day, despite the lack of resources: the culprit of these murders is machismo, a machismo that is everywhere. Without going any further, in this very institution that we now step on. Until his Government understood it and until it assumed that every macho gesture contributed to violence, until then, women were condemned. Right now, in the Sun Gate, next door, there's a group of brave women on hunger strike. They call for very clear and very concrete demands for the fight against macho violence. On November 7th, thousands of women went out on the street, and on March 8th, we will go out again. You go out too, minister, talk to them, let's be humble. Feminism existed and struggled long before we came to this House and will continue to exist. Talk to them, listen to them and implement their demands. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u141	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u142	Thank you, President. Your Honor, we are facing a real state problem. It is because macho violence affects the most fundamental rights of women, affects our lives, our dignity and our freedom. For the thousands of women who are in their jobs, in their homes, suffering from darkness and loneliness, we must achieve a great pact of state to eradicate this scourge. We can only improve effectively in the fight against gender-based violence from unity and coordination. We have done a lot together to eradicate gender-based violence, but as long as there is only one victim, nothing will be enough. It is this Government that has launched the first National Strategy for the Eradication of Violence against Women, which has made a great deal of progress. We have advanced and improved in the 016 system, making it more accessible to women with disabilities. The strategy has allowed for the control of aggressors through probation. We have achieved coordination among all the autonomous communities in order to have a national network of reception centres. Judges must rule on precautionary measures affecting the children of abused women. And so many more measures. In the current legislature we have taken great steps to work together. The subcommission has been unanimously constituted in Congress, which this very afternoon begins its work. Since unanimity in the Senate, the paper has also been approved to work on the fight against violence. And at the last conference of presidents, where President Rajoy and all the presidents of the autonomous communities were, we agreed on a point for the fight against gender-based violence, and from this government we are already working in this legislature in the second national strategy against gender-based violence. You talk to me about budgets. For the best measure would be to be able to approve the 2017 budgets to give a more effective response to this scourge. I'll wait for her. Everyone... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u143	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u144	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Firstly, urgent questioning by the Socialist Parliamentary Group of the measures the Government intends to take to correct the wage gap between men and women. Mrs Rodríguez García has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, just a couple of months ago you were in this House at the general meeting of your department, and there you told us to count with all your complicity on equal pay for men and women. I thank you very much for your complicity, but you will understand that what we are demanding from the Socialist Group is not just complicity, but above all responsibility and action. It is the Government, its ministry, that must put in place measures to end the wage gap. Allow me, Mrs Báñez, to doubt you, not on a personal matter, I promise you that I have nothing personal against you, it is simply because you are not new, you have been in your apartment for five years now, and from your management there are no positive indicators in what has to do with the wage gap, but quite the contrary. We believe that they have gone in the opposite direction to fight or attack the wage gap. His decisions, the decisions of his department and his Government, have aggravated this situation in our country. [[The Lord]] Their labour reform, cuts in benefits and the dismantling of the welfare state have been responsible for the precariousness of wages, the precariousness of jobs and the push of women back to care and home in many cases. Women with the People's Party Government have significantly worsened their living conditions. The wage gap is the clearest manifestation of inequality. Equality between men and women, access to employment, working and remunerative conditions, promotion, access to executive levels and management of businesses are a major challenge facing our country. For this we have put the pillars with the Equality Act, a law that you have brought down with labour reform, a labour reform in which I will stop in three respects: in terms of part-time contracts, overtime and the absence of collective bargaining. Ladies and gentlemen, 75% of part-time contracts that are signed in this country are signed by us, they have a woman's face; precarious contracts, contracts that indicate that they have a part-time but that they are actually full-time. That's right, partial salaries, precarious salaries. Employers are taking advantage of their labour reform to unilaterally organize all aspects related to the day, schedule and distribution of work. There has been an overflow of working hours and their total deregulation. A new form of slavery is being imposed that discriminates above all against women, those who assume new responsibilities. The measures incorporated in the Equality Act, such as referral to equality plans or collective bargaining and the recommendations of the European Commission on corporate transparency, have been limited as a result of this labour reform. Not even, ladies and gentlemen, have you respected those small budget headings of the Ministry of Equality aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises in order to encourage them to work on their equality plans and to advance precisely on those measures of equal pay. I do not want to forget the dismantling of the welfare state, the paralysis and the setback in the Unit Act that is forcing women to return to the home, to return to family care, breaking their professional careers, in many cases breaking their vital projects. These women's lives are what we want to talk about in this inquiry, ladies and gentlemen. From those lives I bring in the form of data from your management; you did not go back more than five years ago. I will refer in this inquiry to the management for which you have been responsible in the last four years. And I want to refer in those lives, in those data, to women who do not have paid work, who are unemployed in our country and who also suffer from this gap, in this case the unemployment gap. [[Show a chart]] These were the unemployment data when you arrived and these are the women standing today. The number of unemployed women has increased while you were in the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not deny that there has always been a small gap which, since the beginning of democracy and the 1980s, with our incorporation into the world of work, we have been breaking. This - what happened in the years 2011 and 2012 - you see here is a gap; what happens now is an abyss, ladies and gentlemen, an abyss for which you are responsible, minister. [[Applauds]] But the unpaid work of women would give us for another debate. Do you want another record that is part of your legacy and that I want to show you also here today, so that you can explain to me what you intend to do to combat it? [[Show another chart]] You have the historical record that, for the first time in forty years, the female labour force in our country has fallen, for the first time in forty years. They are data from 2011 and data from the end of 2016, from its management. And what I ask you, minister, is what you intend to do about it. I hope to count on your complicity and you will not tell me here that in Spain there are no women who suffer the wage gap, as you came to confirm in this House when you said that in Spain there were no people who paid 655 euros. There are people who charge 655 euros, and less, and in Spain there is, and much, wage inequality. Specifically, and according to the latest annual wage structure survey, in our country there is a stagnation in the correction of the wage gap between men and women. The average female wage in 2014 was 76.7% compared to the male wage, i.e. 23.3% lower than that of men. In order to receive the same salary as men, working women in Spain would have to work, on average, seventy-nine days more a year, two and a half months more a year. Another inequality that also occurs in benefits and which is also the result of the management of your ministry, Mr Báñez, is the social protection system where the gap reaches almost 40% - 39% -. More official data from our country, from the National Institute of Statistics: the labour force survey, fourth quarter of 2016, confirms the stagnation. There, women account for almost 46% of the employed. The unemployment rate is 20.25% compared to 17.22% of men, and again I insist that it is a record in part-time work: a total of 75.5 % of women do so; part-time work which they do not choose voluntarily, but which is taken up; part-time work which is not part-time work, but full-time work, in many cases exceeding eight hours, as I said with precarious wages: return to slavery at work. And what happens in Europe, Minister, in the countries of our environment? Spain happens to be among the countries with the lowest female contribution to employment: only 53% of the female population between the ages of twenty and sixty-four. Spain is almost 25 points below the 2020 target in terms of activity rate. To achieve this goal, around 3 million women's jobs would have to be created. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a question of justice and equity. To achieve this participation of women in the labour market, to correct this wage gap between men and women, and thus to facilitate our access to the labour market and good working conditions, is a question of justice, is a question of equity; for us it is an ideological question, but it is also urgent to achieve greater and better economic growth, given the underutilization that we currently have of the workforce of women, although, as all studies and all information also indicate, we have greater and better training. What about our commitments, international commitments? In 2015, a report prepared in the framework of the G-20 meeting laid the groundwork for a proposal to reduce the wage gap between men and women by 25%; taking into account the different national circumstances, this commitment would add 100 million women to the workforce, no doubt an important challenge in which we encourage them to work. Ladies and gentlemen, to narrow the gap requires more effort, more commitment, and not just on economic issues, as I said, but because for us Socialists, achieving gender equality is a democratic goal for the fulfilment of fundamental rights; it is also a challenge that we have pending in our country. You have a magnificent occasion below to explain to us what you plan to do in your apartment. I do not even ask you to justify what you have done in the previous five years, I am not asking you to justify, Mrs Báñez, I ask you to use this inquiry to tell us the House and all the women in our country what you intend to do to respond to this situation. I say to you: do not be justified, I do not need you to justify what you did in the previous five years, I am not asking you; I ask you to look to the future and tell this House and the Spanish what you intend to do within the framework of your responsibility to address this gap, which, as I say, is no longer a gap, but an abyss. So we will be delighted to hear now those measures that you intend to undertake in the future in your department. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u146	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Minister for Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the Socialist Group for this question, because we can reflect together on an issue that is vital for all, and that is that Spain competes today and tomorrow with the best that it has as its strategic asset, which is talent, human capital, all talent and therefore also women. We know that the labour gap exists, that it is harmful to women who suffer it, but it is also harmful to society as a whole, and the fight against any kind of discrimination is a process that accompanies any advanced democratic society that is worthy of being, and therefore it is a battle that we have to wage together in Spain, and it is not alien either to the one that other countries in our environment are giving, including those with social policies such as Denmark or Sweden. It is therefore a battle of all against inequality, it is a shared endeavour. You were talking specifically about the pay gap and at some other time about other aspects and I would also like to refer to them. Let's start with the educational gap. There are differences in the level of education between men and women, perhaps because of the unequal distribution of these differences towards certain specialties, which is already beginning in the baccalaureate and which accompanies young people in their higher education. Therefore, as we know that employment begins in classrooms, it is in the educational gap where we have to start the battle. It is a gap that also exists in activity, because in access to the labour market sometimes women have more difficulties, since in most cases the burden of family care falls on them. There is also a gap in social protection in the future with regard to pensions, which stems from the above, because they have shorter contributory careers and thus lower pensions. And of course there is also a wage gap that no one denies, because it is a situation that our country has been living in for decades, and in which we all have to put our granite sand to overcome it. This is therefore a challenge that we must share from responsibility and be constructive. Likewise, and in an exercise of honesty, we should see the progress that has been made in the last decades in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past 20 years the gender gap in employment has been reduced by at least half. It rose from 26.6 points in 1996 to 11.4 points in 2016. The culture of equal opportunities is therefore falling into the society and social policies of our country. In addition, our country competes in a globalized environment where, as never before, we have to take care of all the talent, and also there we have to choose the model with which we want to compete. Of course for the Government of Spain our country is not going to compete with low wages, but as it said with the best it has, which is its human capital, its talent. And to compete with all talent - a talent that is neither age nor gender - in the labour market we have to count on all: young people, older people and women's talent. Your Honor, when we talk about the wage gap we are really talking about is quality in employment, and in order to be able to talk about quality in employment, the first element of the equation is employment itself. Therefore, the first pillar towards equal pay is equal opportunities at work. Thus, although it seems obvious, wage equality begins with equal opportunities for access to the labour market. What has happened in the crisis that Spain has suffered in the last decade? That equality of opportunity flew radically, that is why the economic crisis became a social crisis in a short time, and our main goal since we arrived at the Government in 2011 was to return the opportunities to the Spaniards. On the other hand, and if we focus on women, the situation in the context of crisis was harsh. You tell me not to talk about the past, but you have to analyze the past to talk about the present and the future, because equality - as I said - starts with employment. When the socialists ruled, in the first phase of the crisis, Spain brought to Europe seven out of ten new stops, 67%. The legacy of the previous Government was almost 1,400,000 women who lost their jobs in the first phase of the crisis, and an increase - this is important - of 1.5 points in the gender pay gap. That is what the last socialist government did. In this collective battle we have striven as a society, and we have done so with everyone within Spanish society - with companies, with workers, with the social partners, with all public administrations - starting with opportunities. Your Honor, whether you like it or not, there is an obvious reality in our country, and it is that today Spain has recovered all the female employment that destroyed the crisis. Thus, women in Spain have had opportunities over the past five years. With the commitment and effort of the entire Spanish society we have recovered the female employment destroyed by the crisis. That's what the data says, which are blunt and not commented on. We wanted to move forward and we were able to do it together, and the results are there: women in Spain today are finding jobs. So much so that one in two women who leaves unemployment in the eurozone does so in Spain. And I will give you one more fact, Your Honor: since the recovery nine out of ten people who left unemployment have done so with a full-time contract. So the sum of all gives results. Moreover, when women remove barriers, we get out - with forgiveness of the expression - because today, after the start of the recovery, six out of ten new entrepreneurs in Spain are women. Therefore, women are starting today in Spain as well as ever. That is in the quantitative sphere. We have done this among all, but also from the Government, with responsibility, by taking measures to support women. Measures in recruitment, such as flat rates or minimum exemptions; measures such as training and learning contracts, such as the EUR 50 fee for low-cost measures, which have benefited more than 455,000 women in Spain. We therefore progress on opportunities, having regained all the female talent destroyed by the crisis. We are moving forward, whether we like it or not, in stability, because when we arrived at the government, indefinite recruitment among women fell at a rate of 32% and is now growing annually at a rate of 18.8%; it is increasing every year. That said, we do not settle, we have to continue working among all. We have also made progress in conciliation, which is crucial for employment stability. This Government launched the 2012 reform for the first time teleworking in Spain. The right to shorter working hours for children aged between eight and twelve years has been extended. We have improved social protection, with the agreement of all, in the House and in the social dialogue, in part-time contracts, which are mainly signed by women. In addition, we have recently extended paternity leave with Citizens to four weeks to facilitate family reconciliation. We are therefore also making progress on that path of opportunity. And as a flag of this legislature - and we have put it at the table of social dialogue - we want to go beyond conciliation and speak seriously for the first time in our country about more rational timetables, which will facilitate opportunities in the labour market for men, but especially for women. We have also made progress in the pension gap, with the maternity supplement, ladies and gentlemen. For the first time Spain is at the forefront of Europe, with France, with a supplement of pensions for women since 1 January 2016, which means raising pensions up to 15% more, taking into account the demographic contribution that women make to society with children, as well as working every day. Well, since its launch on January 1, 2016, one in two women who retires does so with a pension supplement. It is 150,000 women who have had the opportunity to benefit from the great effort they made to work and have children. Therefore, one of the major discriminations, which is the pension gap, we have fought together with social dialogue and with parliamentary consensus. You have told me about the wage gap and I will give you the certain data from Eurostat. Since the recovery the wage gap in Spain has dropped 3 points; I repeat, since the recovery the wage gap in Spain has dropped 3 points. Spain is again below the European average. The gender gap is 0.5 points below France, 6 points below UK and more than 7 points below Germany. Thanks to the solidarity effort of Spanish society, we have made progress in reducing the wage gap. But what's more, women's wages have grown above men's wages since the recovery in our country. It has been happening since the beginning of the crisis; the wage structure survey is clear: women's wages grow six times as much as men's. So that's what's going on in our country. And this is not the merit of the government, ladies and gentlemen, because the wages in Spain are decided by the representatives of the companies and those of the workers, and therefore the unions in collective bargaining. But there the social partners are being responsible, and for the first time since the recovery, women's wages in our country are growing more than men's. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are beginning to have good news: from employment among women to improvements in the quality of employment among women, facilitating reconciliation and thus opportunities, and also raising women's wages above those of men since the recovery, which means a decrease of 3 points since the recovery of the wage gap in Spain. Are we in agreement? No, there is a long way to go, but I hope to count on the Socialist Group and the other political groups to continue, together with the social dialogue, to work for this equality of opportunities between men and women in Spain, so that we compete with the best we have, which is all the talent, also with the female talent. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u148	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Rodríguez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, I have had to reread the wording of my question: what measures does the Government intend to take to correct the wage gap? I believe that you have referred to a couple of issues which have come into force this year, such as paternity leave - which are, by the way, regulated at a socialist government stage and which have entered into force irremediably because of the lack of budgets - or the maternity supplement of pensions, which we believe is unfair, since it already leaves women pensioners out of it, those who had no children, and also because of their proportionality, since those who have enjoyed better jobs and therefore better pensions today continue to be more rewarded with this supplement. I insist, ladies and gentlemen, that the wage gap, which today is an abyss, needs action; the wage gap alone is not over. Even if you hadn't done anything, the pay gap would have been accentuated. The problem is, as I said at first, that you went in the opposite direction. We could be discussing data all morning: I would give you some, you would give me others, but I don't think that solves the problem. There is a fact that gives me chills and that seems to me to reveal what we are talking about in the end, and which is also from the National Institute of Statistics, in the report that makes of the decile of the wages of the main job, a fact that concludes the great injustice that we want to avoid and for which I was asking you on this occasion, and that is that the highest wages are for them and the lowest wages are for us. 35 per cent of men entered more than EUR 2,136 compared to 23 per cent of women, and the opposite was true of lower wages: 41.1 per cent of women had a salary of less than EUR 1,215 compared to 19.8% of men. Ladies and gentlemen, the inequality report made by the International Labour Organization tells us that at this rate, if you stopped paralysing and stopped doing actions in the opposite direction, without doing anything, it would take seventy-one years to reach the goal of equal pay, equal employment. Inequality is not fixed on its own, it is necessary to intervene, and much less it is necessary to go in the opposite direction. I also heard you say in your speech in the Commission that you are going to bring a special plan between men and women in the workplace, which is what you are going to tell me now, but I do not know whether you will be referring to this plan, Minister. [[Show a document]] This plan. The Special Plan for the Equality of Women and Men in the Workplace and Against Wage Discrimination. Is this what you are going to bring to this House or to the Council of Ministers now? But you already talked about this on 23 March 2015 with social partners, entrepreneurs, employers and trade unions. They talked about it, they agreed, he assumed in Europe that this was agreed, but he did nothing, not even bring it to the Council of Ministers' table, so don't come and tell us the same today. [[Applauds]] You say you want a constructive Socialist Group. Of course it is. It's in our essence. We're not here just to oppose you and to tell you the things that hurt - that too, even if you don't like to hear them -. This is a working group, a constructive group and a group that aspires to occupy the government bank to change policies, as we did with the Equality Act. [[Applauds]] This group is going to make proposals to you, now you need to listen to us. I trust that now that you don't have that overwhelming majority will listen to this group, as you are doing on other issues. I will ask you - because equality policies are part of our conviction, our commitment, our identification with our values, our history and our baggage when we were in government - we will ask you to act in this direction. I will ask you not only to bring us this plan that is agreed with the unions and is very well, they are concrete measures - bring it once, they have agreed since March 2015 - but we will ask you for more. I have already told you that in the motion following this inquiry, which we will bring next week, the Socialist Group will ask you to bring to this House a cross-cutting bill that will once and for all tackle one of the major injustices that we are experiencing today in our country. As long as we turn the data around, it will be enough for you to talk to friends, your family or I to talk to mine, to go out on the street and ask women what their working conditions are, what their wages are, what conditions they care for their families to realize that we are not facing a gap but an abyss that needs urgent political action, which is what the Socialist Group demands and demands. For that, to really work - and not to make papers that then do not even take to the Council of Ministers - they will have us by their side. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u150	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Member, in order to improve the wage gap in our country, the first thing that needs to be done is opportunities and jobs. The figures are there, the data are there - I just gave them in my first intervention -. Equal opportunities begins with employment and the great news for Spanish society today is that women have returned to the labour market after a very harsh crisis that managed a socialist government that left them out of those opportunities. Today, therefore, women have joined the labour market and we have recovered all the female talent that destroyed the crisis. During these years of recovery that we are living thanks to the effort of the Spaniards has reduced three points the wage gap in Spain. We are therefore moving forward, but we are more ambitious: we want a country that is also increasingly European in terms of women's participation in the labour market and better wages for women. We make this commitment day by day in our actions to the Council of Ministers and we have put it on the table for social dialogue. At the table of the working group for quality in employment that we open on Monday will, of course, be the issue of equal pay for men and women. Something we are going to work with the social partners, trade unions and employers because, I insist, collective bargaining is key for equal wages in Spain, because wages in Spain are decided in collective bargaining. From the Government, together with you - with all political groups - we want to carry out and renew plans, such as the Strategic Plan for Equal Opportunities 2014-2016 that was adopted in the Council of Ministers - which had strategic objectives such as reducing inequalities in employment and the economy, with a particular impact on wages, reconciliation and family and personal co-responsibility - and which must be renewed; or as this Government also did in 2015 with the II Plan for Equality between Women and Men in the General Administration of the State and its public agencies. Therefore, we continue to take steps in the right direction but we have a lot of work ahead because, I insist, competing for Spain means counting on everyone: with the female talent and with the male talent, with the young and with the senior, with all the talent. We are going to work on this with the political groups and we are going to work on the social dialogue, just as we started that working group last Monday. I am confident that constructive proposals will be put forward from this House because the commitment to equal opportunities is the task of everyone. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u152	Thank you, Minister. - THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON REPUBLICAL DISCUSSION, ON THE CASTRAL REGULATION OF THE ASSIGNMENT OF THE VALUE OF RUSTIC, AGRICULTURAL, GANADERAS AND FORESTAL CONSTRUCTIONS. [[File number 172/000023]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u153	We turn to the next item: Urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left on the cadastral regulation of the allocation of the value of rural, agricultural, livestock and forestry constructions. Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u154	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 14 December last, the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left asked the Government a question which was answered by you, Mr Montoro. The question was as follows: Does the Spanish Government consider the presentation of values that it uses to assign cadastral value to the rustic constructions indispensable for the development of agricultural, livestock or forestry activities? In the end it has been seen that the cadastral regularization procedure 2013-2016, which ends just this year, was done in a hurry and with a clear collection intention. Instead of making a specific presentation for rustic, which was what was really being asked, as was already done with the urban, which would have avoided so many aggravations to the owners, it was chosen by the quick way. Act No. 16/2012 of 27 December 2012 introducing tax measures aimed at consolidating public finances and boosting economic activity amends the Real Estate Disaster Act of 2004 by introducing two points: the third additional provision, relating to the procedures for the regularization of public finances 2013-2016, and the fourth additional provision, which refers to the assessment of the constructions necessary for the development of farms, livestock or forestry located on rural land. The Directorate General of the Catastro then began a process of regularization that has lasted until today, which aims to bring forth the new constructions and alterations on existing constructions not incorporated in the cadastre. So far in principle it's all right. As a result of the application of the regularisation procedure, the holders of the regularised constructions received an individual notification with a motion for a resolution, and had to face a fee of EUR 60 per building for management costs. Since then, they have seen an increase in cadastral value, with an impact on property tax and a retroactive effect of four years. I'm explaining the whole process so we know how it went. The Directorate-General for Catastro also initiates the procedure for allocating cadastral value in those buildings which are indispensable for the development of agricultural, livestock or forestry holdings without assigned value, since no general collective valuation procedure has been carried out for them since 1 January 2006. The problem arises from now on. The fourth additional provision of the law indicates that while the regulatory rules for the valuation of rustic properties are not adopted, the cadastral value will be obtained by application of the presentation of urban values in force in the municipality. In other words, the cadastral valuation of the rustic would be based on the urban valuation. Obviously, since there is no specific valuation procedure for rustics and to be evaluated according to the presentation of urban values, inequalities with respect to urban values are clearly established, which end up entailing a major aggravation for the owners. I am going to raise some of the problems that have arisen over the years and that have been gradually trying to cover up. The cadastral reviews with presentation that began in 2006 incorporated the inclusion of constructions in the rural area. Until then the rustic had only listed for the estate, not for the buildings. In these cases, the whole base of the cadastral value was not paid, but this value was being assumed over the ten-year period, at a rate of 10 % per year until the total of the base was covered. When the regularisations begin in 2013, because of the almost rescue situation on the part of the European Commission - we all run - the situation of urban farms is not only regularized, but also the constructions of the rustics are added and then the agrarian buildings are incorporated into the farms. In this case, without specific presentation, the entire cadastral value is paid without the ten-year grace period. This is a first offense. That is, that the revision of the rustic has advantages that does not have regularization. They make a distinction that harms rural owners, who have not had revision but regularization. Unlike the urban one, it's not his fault; if they didn't quote the amount it's because so far it wasn't paid for the construction. I insist that the decision to establish a regularization procedure rather than a revision procedure for rustics allowed us to start collecting without the need to draw up a paper. The goal was clearly collective. It was a decision that was later wrong, given the inequalities and grievances that led to the application of the procedure. Analyzing the experience of municipalities that have been the subject of this cadastral regularization procedure, excessive assessments of the rustic constructions have been detected based on an instrumental values presentation generated automatically by each municipality with criteria of free urban. Minister, do you know that the presentation of securities used in the procedure for allocating cadastral value to agricultural constructions in some cases involves a much higher assessment of market values resulting in an unadjusted capital increase affecting various economic acts? The excess of cadastral valuation has a direct impact on family savings, since the new asset value is charged to the income statement and, consequently, ends up affecting aspects such as, for example, the request for aid or grants. In some cases the purpose was so great that some owners saw, for example, that for tax and property purposes a irrigation raft was valued as a swimming pool and an abandoned farm or agricultural warehouse as an industrial ship. Do you find it fair, Minister? On the other hand, regardless of the state or the reforms that had been made in the interior, regularization only allows an external assessment of the construction. In the face of these grievances, the General Directorate of the Catastro has been implementing reducing coefficients to correct the inequalities and excesses generated by the application of the procedure for the valuation of agricultural constructions: the coefficient derived from the market reference, which represents a 50% reduction; the coefficient derived from the location; the coefficient derived from the constructive category; the coefficient derived from the state of conservation; and even a coefficient of activity which, although not very clear, has been changed by the state of life that valued the state of the building. There has therefore been an attempt to lower the overvaluation of rustics. In any case, the problem now is to determine what measures will be taken by this 2017, taking into account that any action on the cadastral coefficients passes through the Law on General Budgets of the State. We understand that its approval will be very complicated and the extension does not seem feasible either, as the coefficients of the previous Budget Act were specific for the financial year 2016. On the other hand, the deadline for the completion of the 2013-2016 cadastral regularisation procedure is this year and a new proposal for this new legislature can be expected. Despite efforts to correct the inequalities and grievances generated by the new procedure for assessing agricultural constructions, the right way to focus on this would be to address in this legislature the elaboration of a specific paper for agricultural uses. This is the real request we made and made in the previous question. Would the Government be willing to accept that proposal? I say this because, when in the previous parliamentary term our group tabled a motion calling for the elaboration of a specific paper for the rustic, your group voted against. Minister, in the end it has been seen that the cadastral regularization procedure 2013-2016 was done in haste and with clear collection intention. It is clear that this measure allowed the municipalities to be financed through the IBI, but also through the state's coffers; let us not be fooled. The problem is not this - it is legitimate, it is obvious that the owner is obliged to declare those properties he owns - the problem is procedural. The burden it has placed on landowners of agricultural buildings an excessive assessment and without the possibility of gradually paying the total of the base has been an aggravation for families and for an already heavily punished sector. Therefore, leaving behind already the process that has been going on and the grievances and inequalities that it has been generating, we believe that it is now a good time to address the elaboration of a paper on the rustic that adapts and is a fair assessment of the buildings and the rustic properties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u156	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a time when the government, with the support - I hope it is explicit - of the political groups in this House is going to review the autonomous financing and local financing; therefore, this is the time in fact when matters such as the one it brings today, which is the subject of this inquiry - that is, the establishment of a cadastral value of the rustic constructions - are being undertaken in the context of the revision of that reform of local financing. What is also clear is that the position of your political group, Mr Eritja, is not to participate. They do not participate because the Generalitat - where they are present in the Government - has decided not to send even an expert to conform to an opinion from the academic world regarding the future of autonomous and local financing. I understand that the position that Esquerra is holding at this time in the House when she asks the Government if it is willing to accept a paper to study precisely the technical content of what would be the revisions of the catastrophic values of rustic constructions, is that it is willing to collaborate, and that is what I need to clarify, because in one place it is not and in another it is. Your Honor, regardless of what the expert committees determine and contribute in both autonomous and local funding, that will have to be translated into a law, and that law will have to be agreed between the political groups present in this House; therefore, for that law it will be for which the opinion of the Republican Left of Catalonia will obviously have to be sought, that is, with regard to the Local Financing Act, which is the one that has to frame all these procedures. What has been done so far is to follow a plan of cadastral regularization that is obviously a consequence of the current legislation, of the consolidated text of the Law of the Real Estate Disaster, and to carry it forward not with reason - as your Lordship has said with the spirit of criticism - to collect more, because those who collect, as your Lordship has said, are the municipalities, although it says below: well, but through the State. I have not understood this; I have not understood it because if the municipalities enter the municipalities, because they enter the municipalities, and if we are looking through the basic tax legislation that there is tax equity, that is the responsibility of the Government and this House. Therefore, the criteria used for the cadastral valuations of rural farms are that the cadastral valuation of agricultural land is carried out temporarily by capitalization of 3 % of the existing liquidated bases for the rural and livestock territorial contribution corresponding to 1989; in relation to the cadastral valuation of agricultural constructions, as mentioned at the beginning of this approach, the cadastral valuation of the necessary constructions for livestock or forestry farms is carried out for the first time since the obligation to value the necessary constructions was incorporated into the Catastro Act in 2005, starting a transitional period for the cadastral valuation of these constructions associated with the implementation of procedures for the collective valuation of urban buildings, cadastral revisions. Already in 2012 the procedure of cadastral regularization 2013-2016 is created, whose objective is the incorporation into the cadastral register of buildings and alterations that do not appear in the same because of non-compliance with the obligation to submit the corresponding cadastral declarations. With regard to the effects on taxes that have the cadastral value as a taxable basis, I would say that the assessment of the construction indispensable for agricultural, livestock or forestry holdings does not mean an increase in cadastral values, since these constructions lacked cadastral value. In this regard, it should be noted that the obligation to assess the indispensable constructions was established through a reform of the consolidated text of the Law on Real Estate Disaster, carried out in 2005, starting in 2006 a transitional period for the cadastral valuation of these constructions, thus avoiding the lack of tax justice that occurred between municipalities that had developed a collective valuation procedure since 2006 and those that had not done so in these ten years. With regard to the impact of the valuation of the indispensable constructions on the taxes that have the cadastral value as a taxable basis, it should be noted that the tax on immovable property constitutes the main tax on the ownership of immovable property. As far as the effects on agricultural property are concerned, cadastral regularisation will in no way lead to overestimation of agricultural property. Thus, in accordance with the legal text I am quoting, the cadastral value of a property cannot exceed the market value, thus understanding the most likely price for which a cargo-free property could be sold between independent parties, for which a reference coefficient for goods of the same class is fixed by order of the Minister of Finance. At present, the market reference coefficient for rustic real estate is fixed by the first transitional provision of this consolidated text, which provides for the application to the part of the value of the rustic constructions of the reference coefficient for the existing market for urban real estate, exactly 0.5. In this way, it is ensured that the cadastral value of these immovable property does not exceed the market value, complying with the legal limits, and within the 50 % of this value. With regard to the effects on the bonuses set out in the capital transfers, the allocation of cadastral value to the indispensable constructions constitutes an act of tax justice and of enforcement of the principle of generality governing tax law. Your Honor, as I said, the explanations are at your disposal, of course. If you think so, we will send you a more complete text proposal based on the concerns you have expressed from this rostrum. I encourage you to make a constructive motion on this matter, which is undoubtedly important and interesting, but I insist on the idea with which you were beginning: the government's plan is that this year, this year, we are going ahead with the reform of local funding, and precisely all these matters form the body of that local funding. Therefore, our best willingness to review all these tax figures. In any case, and in terms of tax equity, what we must do is to identify them correctly so that there are no situations of tax inequality and that, obviously, as you rightly pointed out, there is no harm to agricultural holdings, which are fortunately giving us a great lesson in the economy in this country by demonstrating their ability to invest, grow, export, modernize and make the countryside in Spain a great economic project, one of the great engines of economic recovery through not only the provision of domestic consumption but also their great export capacity. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u157	Thank you, Minister. To continue the debate, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u158	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you are mixing things with me, you are talking about the local funding reform and I am talking to you about a very specific issue, which is whether or not you want to carry forward this year the presentation of the rustic. This is an issue that affects not only the Government itself but also the Directorate-General of Disaster itself so that it can implement it and start working on it or not. If you really want to do this, you have our support to work in that direction, that is, for the elaboration of a paper of the rustic, which is where the motion will go; in that you have all our support, but let us not mix things, please. He then commented on the issue of error, which is a mistake in which we do not participate. There is one issue that is very clear, and that is that the mistake was created by you at the time when you chose that quick option, with a collection effort, yes, to get out of a crisis situation and to finance not only the municipalities, but also the state. The State, from here on, through declarations, with the increase in wealth, really receives an increase. Therefore, the mistake is at the time when you applied this and applied it wrong, because you forced a wrong procedure that generated a series of grievances and inequalities with regard to urban property. The problem was really to value the agrarian buildings from the urban ones, which causes a great imbalance. The criteria for the valuation of urban are one, and the criteria for the valuation of rural areas are another. That is why what it is important to do now, after all that period, is to focus and enter directly into the elaboration of a paper on rustics and to leave aside the whole process that has been going on so far. Minister, you have also not responded to whether the Government is prepared in this legislature to urge the Directorate-General for Disaster to draw up a specific presentation for agricultural uses. I repeat again: are you willing to start a whole process for the elaboration of a paper for the rustic? On the other hand, I suppose they share that the current market value is an essential reference value, as you have commented, for the cadastral valuation. The proposal could even be that the reference value or market value should be changed to define the new cadastral value of real estate, a value based on a real market value of properties that can be reviewed annually on the basis of a market value study. Therefore, the real possibilities are. Why do they not apply at this time, Minister? The Directorate-General for Disaster has all the information on market value and would therefore be automatic, relatively fast. Even, look, the model of presentations could be eliminated simply by applying market value as a reference element for both urban and rustic. I say it because if we want to get to work, there are enough elements to do it. We are aware of the difficulty of its application as a definitive cadastral value, but at the outset its intention would be to add it to the cadastral sheet. The use you then want to make of this reference value and its impact on the cadastral value of real estate depends already on a political decision; and this is where our motion will really go. There must be a real will on the part of the Government to create a fair system of cadastral valuation for rustics. Whatever the final proposal, Minister, this year 2017 should be the year of drawing up a fair and specific procedure to assess rustics and thus avoid inequalities and grievances. I believe that this 2017 can begin to work quietly for the elaboration of this paper or to look for other mechanisms of valuation of the rustic. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Finance and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u160	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is now over and it is not a question of repeating the arguments. In short, his lordship says: obviously he is a tax figure that finances the municipalities and also the state through assets. No, no, no, because precisely heritage is transferred to the respective autonomous community and therefore not. The State is not financed like this. Let us not confuse basic regulation and tax management, which are the responsibility of the General Administration of the State, with the financing of what you call a State. Don't say it like that because we're confusing the terms. Is the government prepared to do so in this legislature? No, not in this legislature, I'm telling you this year. How are we not going to tackle the issue of the rustic tax if we are talking about local and autonomous financing? It would be impossible not to, I don't know how to tell you. He says: No, we will do it through a paper to which Esquerra is willing. Well, welcome to Esquerra's ready for something, because I don't see her willing for anything. You don't want to be financed by special funding mechanisms, otherwise you don't want to know anything. Esquerra has to have a constructive attitude in this House, because it also has very important government responsibilities in Catalonia and in the municipalities of Catalonia. It has to come with constructive proposals. Doesn't it have to do with Esquerra's position in the Government of the Generalitat? It does have to do with how it won't have to do with it. That is what you would certainly like, but I have to insist that the Government of the Generalitat does not want to participate in the expert groups - I am not talking about any other type of participation anymore - and now it turns out that Esquerra goes up here to propose the elaboration of a presentation that affects partial, very important funding, but that it must form part of the project of local and autonomous financing reform for the same reason as I have just summarized it in this year 2017. I ended up thanking the interpellation. I think it served to clarify that Esquerra wants to be where he doesn't want to be. This is it. It proposes a path that we would have to accommodate to the large legislative project highway that means reform of autonomous financing and local financing. That Esquerra is in a constructive plan for it? Great. I, as Minister of Finance and Public Service of the Government of Spain, am pleased that this is so. Welcome, even if it's as partial as this one is. If this was the meaning of your inquiry, welcome. The truth is, I didn't understand the interpellation when I formulated it, but now I do. I understand that, even if it is partially, Esquerra wants to participate in all that will be that reform of local finance and autonomous financing, as should be his obligation. It is a rather obvious conclusion, it should not be more important, but it is that you do a policy of separation in order to give yourself I do not know what kind of political relief I do not understand; however, I see that today, in an inquiry, we can draw something constructive, which is a coincidence. The Government, through the People's Parliamentary Group, will work on the greatest coincidence in the subsequent motion of interpellation. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u161	Thank you, Minister. - THE JOINT PARLIAMENT GROUP ON REITERATES AND INJURY IN THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE MEDITERRANEAN CORREDOR. [[Mr Baldoví]] [[File number 172/000022]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u162	We turn to the next item on the agenda, an urgent debate by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví, on the repeated delays and breaches in the construction of the Mediterranean corridor. For your defence, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On April 24, 2012, the former minister, Ana Pastor, said: The third lane will be finished in 2015. It's 2017, and nothing. It's been a long time and it's not over. Julio Pomar, Secretary of State for Infrastructures, on May 28, 2015, said: The Mediterranean corridor will be operating in early 2016 from Murcia to the French border. It's 2017, and nothing. There are many promises that have not been fulfilled. This week we saw with stupor a map where it was painted that the Mediterranean corridor also passed through Madrid, 350 kilometers from the coast. In particular, in the high-speed rail access south of Madrid - with which I am perfectly in agreement that it will be done, would be missing - and in the tunnel between Atocha and Chamartín have been diverted a billion and are done at the cost of the Mediterranean corridor, as works of the Mediterranean corridor. You will agree with me, Minister, that 350 kilometres from the sea does not seem very Mediterranean, at least for those of us who study geography. And the summit has already been Rafael Catalá, Minister of Justice, when on February 7, last week, he said: I think there has been a little exaggeration as to the strategic importance of the Mediterranean corridor. A little bit of exaggeration. After all this, it is understood that people so unsuspecting of radicality - word with which you like to define ourselves -, people as unradical as Mr. Juan Roig, President of Mercado; Mr. Joaquim Gay, President of the Catalan employer Foment del Treball; Mr. Javier Godó, Count of Gondó, President of the Godó Group and of La Vanguardia; Mr. Vicente Boluda, President of the Valencian Association of Entrepreneurs; Mr. Juan José Brugera, President of the Economic Circle, or Mr. Federico Félix, President of Pro AVE, that is, all very radical people, and more than three hundred entrepreneurs from Catalonia, the Valencian Community, Murcia and Almería met on Monday in Tarragona to claim things of common sense, of - as the Valencians say - trellat, or - as the Catalans say - of seny, that is, a more circular and not so radial Spain. We are already a little tired of everything starting and ending in Madrid. The Mediterranean exists, the north exists - you know it -; it cannot be that we continue with a mentality of two centuries ago when everything started in Madrid. Just take a look at the high-speed map Everything passes through Madrid. [[Show a map]] From Madrid you can go anywhere: Malaga, Alicante, Valencia, Barcelona, Zaragoza, and even Huesca. On the other hand, the work is not done to unite the second and third cities, to make Spain - you who are filled so much with Spain -. If you want everyone to be the same, the least you have to do is connect two big cities like Valencia and Barcelona. It's a little surreal what I'm gonna say. The Barcelona-Valencia-Alicante route goes to Madrid from Barcelona and then to Alicante is 1,039 kilometers and it costs five hours and thirty-five minutes. The Barcelona-Valencia-Alicante route, which is 525 kilometers - half -, costs five hours and twenty minutes. Amazing. It doesn't matter to go from Barcelona to Madrid and then go down to Alicante than to go along the coast line, when there are half a kilometer. You don't understand, Minister. Entrepreneurs gathered and the Valencian, Catalan, Murcian and Andalusian civil society what they ask are reasonable things: planning, political will - which is what we miss a lot -, commitments and dates. Let them understand once and for all something that they do not seem to want to understand here, that the Mediterranean corridor benefits the whole State and not just the autonomous communities it crosses. It is an infrastructure of general interest. I understand that this is how you should perceive it. The corridor could connect - it will connect, if we finally come to see it - cities of the whole Mediterranean arc, both those of the Spanish State - Almería, Cartagena, Murcia, Alicante, Valencia, Castellón, Tarragona or Barcelona - as other as important as Marseille, Lyon, Turin, Milan, Trieste, Ljubljana or Budapest, until reaching almost the border with Ukraine. The Mediterranean corridor, in figures, has a length of 3,500 kilometres and has been declared a priority by the European Commission - we do not invent it - and taking into account all the countries in which it passes it represents 54% of the inhabitants of the European Union and 66% of the gross domestic product of the European Union. It could mean a reduction - now that we are so concerned about the carbon footprint that we leave - of more than 900,000 tons of CO2 emissions per year, which is equivalent to what would pollute 130,000 cars going around the world. To put an example that can be understood from the houses: exporting fruits and vegetables through the Mediterranean corridor would save 3 cents per 1,000 kilometers; therefore, the fruits and vegetables that are sent to Europe from Almería, Murcia, Alicante or Valencia would save 6 cents, which would at least make us more competitive. If I talk about fruits and vegetables I can also talk about Ford cars, with what it means for the Valencian economy, to set an example. It is not understood how this work has not already been done. The autonomous communities through which it will pass represent 50% of the population, 45% of Spanish GDP and we would be the seventh largest region in Europe economically; we represent 47% of the productive fabric, 46% of employment, 51% of exports in goods, 63% of goods traffic in ports and 80% of containers, 63% of exporting companies and 61% of importers. Indeed, it is not understood that this is not a priority for successive Governments. It is undoubtedly the largest axis of population and economic concentration in the whole Spanish State; that is why it is unworthy that after so long the Minister Catalá, who, when he was in office, spoke of the priority, let go of these statements that he is exaggerating. The same vice-president did not think so because she spoke of its strategic importance. It seems to me that the minister frivolated in making those statements. That's the feeling that we have Valencians, Batians, Catalans or the people of Almería. And it's that with your mouth you're saying one thing, but with your hand you're signing another. The investments go to another place and we continue with many sections of single track - the bottleneck of Vandellós is something that cannot be understood - and in some cases with sections that do not exist, that only exist on the maps, such as the section of Murcia to Almería. While we are being promised and systematically breached, there are other regions that have received the investments, so this Mediterranean region is competing at a disadvantage with others. We want to compete with the same advantages. If you are investing in the central corridor, you are investing in the Mediterranean corridor, not being said to be investing. I know what you're gonna tell me. He is going to tell me that 14 billion have been invested, that they are going to invest 3,000 more - that is what the government delegate said the other day - but we have heard that many times, and I think that the 300 entrepreneurs who were in Tarragona on Monday also had heard it already and what they said is that they are tired of hearing promises. In the 1930s, a Valencian, Lluís Lucia, was already talking about the Mediterranean corridor. Since then - gathering the words of the autonomous secretary of Infrastructures, Josep Vicent Boira, who had the patience to count them - more than sixty ministers of Development have passed and nothing has been done. I'm done because I'm running out of time. In 1963, the World Bank was already talking about its strategic importance, and nothing. I'm just praying to you, and it's just that you don't freak us out with numbers, with new promises. We want dates, calendar, commitments, general state budgets... Reasonable things, common sense, moderate people. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr de Fomento.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u165	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Baldoví, the Mediterranean corridor is a political priority for the Spanish Government. You doubt that political will and I repeat it to you again: the Mediterranean corridor is a political priority for the Spanish Government. Faced with the approach that existed before, until 2011, it was the People's Party Government that made realistic planning to ensure that the different track widths did not pose a traffic problem, inter alia, for the transport of goods. In addition, in November 2013 we managed to have the European Union declare this corridor as a priority of the trans-European core network. You speak of the Atocha-Chamartin section. Your Honor, that there are two branches in the Mediterranean corridor is not an invention of the Government of Spain, but it is so contained in Regulation 1316/2013 of the European Union; nobody is inventing anything here. I guess you know that. What I can assure you is that the fact that we are generating an important project for this country, such as the Atocha-Chamartín connection, does not in any case mean that there is any diversion of funds from other sections of the Mediterranean corridor, but will, among other things - and this is sure to please you - allow a person who is in Alicante to arrive in Santander, to set an example, with a reduction in time of more than half an hour thanks to the need to make exchanges in the Madrid environment. You do not have to convince me of the need to better connect the peripheral regions. You know as much about that as I do, but no more than I do. You, of course, care only about Valencia, about your community, but go talk about discrimination, as you are saying, for example, to the citizens of Galicia; or go tell that to those of Asturias, those of Extremadura or those of Cantabria. You say you want as much as you do in other autonomous communities. I can assure you that, for us, the Mediterranean Corridor is a priority, but that we will also continue to address - of course because it is our function - the needs of those other autonomous communities that you do not care about but have the same rights to connect with the rest of Spain. [[Applauds]] The technical solution is to reconcile standard wide traffic, i.e. European traffic, with national traffic of Iberian width, and the third lane is used for this purpose. This facilitates - as you know well - the traffic of goods, in addition to continuing to allow the traffic of Iberian width, according to the availability of the sector. Indeed, I do not resist not giving you the figure, Mr Baldoví, the broker is an investment of approximately EUR 17 billion and so far we have executed EUR 13.5 billion. You say that the sections that are in progress or that even have faces of not being completed are unknown. I thank you for the question because it allows me once again to report on the work that is being done. Between the French border and Barcelona is in service - you already know it - the Figueres-Barcelona section, which made possible the first international trips between France and Spain - by the way, at the end of last year we obtained a very important agreement with the Government of France for joint management through a society of the Figueres-Perpignan section - as well as in September 2012 we put in service the provisional access to the port of Barcelona in standard width and we continue to work with the Generalitat to develop the new railway access. From Barcelona to Tarragona, for travelers, it has been in service since 2008; for goods, in standard width, we are acting in the Castellbisbal-Vilaseca section. As I mentioned in the question that asked me about technical and administrative incidents, we are processing the files that allow the works to be reactivated as soon as possible, and between Tarragona and Vandellós, the intention is to launch in the spring of 2018 the start of the circulation in tests. You say that these works are not being done because they are not seen from the helicopter that has been used for filming the video. I have to give reason in one thing, in that meeting to which you have referred none of these acts were shown or mentioned; that is true, but the fact that they were hidden, that they were not mentioned, does not mean that they are not being done. You just said you want more than promises, you want made. Well, these are facts. You say there are no works being done on that stretch between Tarragona and Vandellós. This, which is also a photograph of before you presented your inquiry, responds to that section of Tarragona to Vandellòs. [[Show a picture]] I think these are facts. This is another completely different section of the work, just like this and this other. [[Shows a series of photographs]] How bad luck the helicopter was to not be able to shoot any of these performances. But believe me, we are acting very intensely on this stage and on others in the corridor. Between Vandellòs and Castellón the idea is also to adapt - as he has said, via sea side - the circulation in both widths by using in third lane. And here, as in the Castellbisbal-Vilaseca section, we are working intensively to reactivate some of the works that are being performed. From Castellón to Valencia, the performance - also through that third lane - has the side between Valencia and Sagunto, which goes through the mountain, and between Sagunto and Castellón, which goes along the sea side. All the necessary performances have already been performed in the facilities - I do not show you the photographs because he knows that I myself had the opportunity to ride on the train and make that tour in the Valencia-Sagunto section - and we continue to pose the stage of the first trimester of this year for the beginning of the circulation in tests. You are talking about unfulfilled commitments, here we could talk long and wide about those commitments. By giving you one on this stretch, since you have as government partners the socialists, I will tell you that in April, before 2014, the minister announced that the AVE would arrive in Castellón in 2014, and said it was also a commitment to the citizens. A few months later, in June, he made sure that he kept the deadlines but that he was going to rethink how to execute the work, and in December the contracts tendered for, he said, to build it - hold on to the seat - with private capital. This was obviously never done, but, among other things, it has caused us to find ourselves in the situation we are in. Mr Baldoví, those of us who execute the works - I will not deny it - of course, we have technical implications, but at least we execute them, and within this plan of improvement of the railway accesses we will undertake investments for 200 million euros in the port of Castellón, for example, for the intermodal station of the railway network of the south darsena and the new railway connection south; in the railway access to the port of Sagunto; in the actions of the line Sagunto-Teruel-Zaragoza, all this with charge of the program of railway accessibility; and in the section between Valencia and the knot of La Encina, it is also solved through a platform for double way in standard width; in this section the degree of execution is of 87 %. Therefore, there are also important works. From La Encina to Monforte del Cid and Alicante, the section has been in service since June 2013 as part of the line between Albacete and Alicante, and in September 2014 we launched the freight branch for the same port of Alicante. From Monforte del Cid is planned the platform for double track to Murcia; initially, as we have moved, a railway detour in third lane will be executed that will allow to continue the integration work in the city of Murcia; we are already in a degree of execution of 86% and therefore we continue with the commitment to finish the works in the same year and start the period of circulation in tests. By the way, also in this environment we have the variant of Camillas, in which last week we started to place the track assembly. In the stretch between Murcia and Cartagena we are finalizing the projects, some of them pending declaration of environmental impact. We continue to advance in the Murcia-Almeria section, where he knows that works are started in some sections with technical and administrative difficulties, such as in the section between Almeria and Granada, in which in addition to the projects that are in progress - the drafting of them - is intervening in various sections with substitutions of deviations, for example in the environment of Moreda, of elements of tracks, etc. From Granada to Antequera there is also a forecast and a deadline - I comment as it talks about deadlines and commitments - and it is that we will start the circulation of trains in tests in the last quarter of this year. I myself had the opportunity to visit the works in the area known as Loja to see the progress of the works. And between Antequera and Algeciras we are also performing performances and we are going to bid shortly - I have announced it - the drafting of the plan for the renovation of the track between St.Paul and Almoraima. This disconnection to which he mentions in the inquiry, in the case of rail passenger transport, our data do not say that, because they support the citizens' confidence in these services, and also in a very complicated situation, since some of these works have had to be executed on the platform in service, which has made it difficult for certain freight services to be maintained at the same frequencies. But the truth is that in high speed and long distance in 2016 we have grown 1.7% - I am talking about data from its autonomous community - ie 33% since 2011; in average conventional distance we have grown 1.5%, and in Avant services, 9%. Therefore, Mr Baldoví, believe me again if I tell you that there are facts here, not words, works that are in progress and that ratify the maximum commitment of the Government of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u166	Thank you very much, Minister. The next item is Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u167	Thank you very much, Minister. Look, I know this brown guy gets to you with just a few months of opening the job, I know. I will tell you that I like you, I trust your word and that is why I will take the Journal of Sessions tomorrow with what you have said here and I will remind you permanently of it as a road map with everything you have just announced. In principle, I like to trust, what happens is that we are already so tired of unfulfilled promises... I insist, they were lords of the employer, they were great entrepreneurs, they were not the radicals of Compromís, they were lords of order who were demonstrating yesterday in Tarragona. When you tried to tell me that I only care about Valencia, you received generous applause. I don't get so much applause because we are less but I don't just care about Valencia, I care about Murcia, I care about Almería, I care about Catalonia and, obviously, as a Member of Parliament for Valencia, I care about my land. I'd miss more! You've been mayor just like me and you've had to prioritize investments. Do you think it was a priority for the AVE to get to Huesca? Or was it more priority that the AVE go to the second and third most important city? With all due respect to the people of Aragon, but do not play me in demagogy and do not tell me that it is not more important and has a greater economic return for the whole country. Here it seems that when some of us defend something we only defend our own, but when the third tunnel is made in Madrid and Valencia do not yet have the first one it turns out that we are chauvinists, nationalists... Joan Fuster, who was from my people, said a phrase that I like very much: I am a nationalist to the extent that you force me to be. And you know what? With this Mediterranean Corridor thing, I'm really forced to be. And not only to me, also to the three hundred entrepreneurs of Monday, to the whole Valencian society, to the Murcian, to the Almerian, to the Catalan... They're forcing us to be. You told me about the helicopter, the helicopter we haven't paid for the Compromises. The helicopter that has travelled the entire route of the Mediterranean corridor has paid for it by the Valencian Association of Entrepreneurs and finds that in many places no works are being done. I am going to trust a little bit in your word and in which you say that, in fact, it is a priority, but so far, the truth is that the facts deny you very much. For example, from Castellón up there is no work being done now. Is there anything Castellón doing up there? It'll be done, won't it? It'll be done. Don't cheat on me, don't tell me I'm a PSOE partner. I would rather have a president of the Socialist Party government than one of the People's Party, of course. And we are ruling in Valencia and many other cities with the PSOE but don't make me responsible for what other Socialist Party ministers did, because we weren't in this House or in the government. I insist, Minister, that what Andalusian, Murcian, Valencian and Catalan societies want - that is, a very important part of the Spanish state - is that things be done with common sense. It makes sense and it is beneficial for the whole of the Spanish State that these works be made. As we believe, for example, the Valencian People's Party could not be otherwise. And I don't think the Valencian People's Party is suspicious of anything right now. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Development has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u169	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. I don't have you for a radical at all, and I also have to admit I like you. I would also like to say that I have stayed with what you have said that you prefer to have a member of the People's Party and, as you will remind me of the march of the Mediterranean Corridor, I will remind you of this when we bring the 2017 budgets to this House. It has again referred to the meeting of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs do what they have to do. I'd miss more! I know that because we have railway tables everywhere we go and there are political groups, trade unions, economic organisations and employers in them. We have them in Galicia, in Extremadura, anywhere; recently in Granada, which I have mentioned, in Jaén and in Almería, which you have quoted. In all of them there are railway tables and they all subscribe and sign the needs that their land has, of course. This seems good to me because it is what they have to do, try to claim the improvement of infrastructures. I do not in any way despise - I would miss more! - that entrepreneurs try to boost an infrastructure of these characteristics; on the contrary, what we are doing is opening up channels of dialogue, as you know. He assures us in his question that we refuse to address this issue jointly, and that is not the case. It's not like that. We have instructed the entire team of the Ministry of Development to engage with the autonomous communities and the sector. I myself met on 4 January in Catalonia with the Councillor of Territory and Sustainability, on 14 December with the President of the Valencian Generalitat, on 21 November with the President of the Region of Murcia and on 13 January the Secretary of State on this occasion with the Councillor of Development and Housing of Andalusia and in all the meetings of course we have talked, among many other things, about the Mediterranean Corridor. In addition, on December 14, I also met personally with the Conexus Madrid- Valencian Community Foundation and with Cierval, with the Confederation of Business Organizations of the Valencian Community, and I also met with the Valencian Association of Entrepreneurs, some of whom you mentioned. Let me open a parenthesis. I sincerely believe that it is a profound mistake to focus the focus, as some are doing, uniquely and exclusively on what infrastructure is. Of course, infrastructure is an essential issue and of course it is essential that we try to give impetus to the platform and superstructure, but as important as this is, for example, the rolling stock and nobody is making a single mention of it, which can contribute and much to the reduction of time. It is so important or more important to know in concrete terms the realistic transport commitments to be made in the field of goods. I mean, which companies are going to use the railway to the detriment of the road? How many trains would be willing to put on the track knowing already the march of the sections that are in operation? When and how often could they put those trains on the track? Two months ago I personally requested this information from employers' associations, as partners in the business sector, with a view to preparing a logistical project on what has to happen in the Mediterranean corridor in order to make maximum use of the management and operation of this new corridor. I have a meeting tomorrow with representatives of the Valencian Association of Entrepreneurs and I trust that after these two months we will be able to report on the companies that are ready to use this Mediterranean corridor. I repeat to you, therefore, that for us the Mediterranean corridor is a priority project. He also mentioned in his question - he did not say it here - that the demonstration of the lack of interest and political will was in which we had not yet designated the figure of the coordinator of the Mediterranean corridor. Yes, we have. In addition, he is a very creditworthy person and I am sure that he will soon be ready to help improve the dialogue with the autonomous communities and to give a boost to the corridor. He will be a person who will report to the territory on an ongoing basis. Therefore, for us that designation is important - as I know it is also important for the Autonomous Communities - to continue to advance this project. In short, I can assure you that in this legislature we will give unprecedented impetus to the Mediterranean corridor. The commitment is from the entire Government of Spain, but in particular from those who have responsibilities at the head of the Ministry of Development. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-15-CD170215.u170	Thank you very much, Minister. At the end of the debate on this item, we shall suspend the sitting. It was 12:15 at noon.
