ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions, first of all, to the President of the Government. Question by Mrs Margarita Robles Fernández, Member of the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, what steps will your Government take to combat tax fraud?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u4	Thank you very much. Mrs Robles, the fight against tax fraud has always been a priority of the Government itself, but it is also an essential pillar as you know for fiscal consolidation, which has been a basic objective for the recovery of our economy. That is why between 2012 and 2016, five years, 65 232 million euros have been collected, which are the best historical data of the State Tax Agency. We have adopted different rules to be more effective in the fight against tax fraud, we have promoted several initiatives at international level and this year we have increased the agency's budget by 100 million. An extraordinary offer of public employment has been approved and I would like to stress one important issue: since 1 July the so-called immediate supply of information in the field of VAT, which allows us to control the collection of this tax, is being applied. Large companies within four days of the operation subject to VAT have to communicate it to the State Tax Agency, and this is certainly very useful in combating fraud. In this line we will continue to act in the coming months. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs. Robles.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u6	Mr President, your government has been characterized by opacity and lack of transparency when not tolerance in the fight against tax fraud. According to the General Council of Economists there are 26 billion euros that do not enter the public coffers as a result of tax fraud. There are 144 billion euros hidden in foreign paradises. Opacity; you say nothing. But you know what's even worse? The tolerance you have with tax fraud. I already know that you do not like me to talk about the rulings of the Constitutional Court - he said last week - and much less when the Constitutional Court declares the unconstitutional nullity of his fiscal amnesty, of his government's fiscal amnesty. You know the judge's rapporteur, Mr Ollero, don't you? You know him perfectly well. Look, not only does it say - as you have repeated many times - that the tax amnesty was null and void for reasons of form because they did it by decree-law, it says that you abdicated your obligation to pursue the tax offence, that you violated the principle of equality and of contribution capacity and it also says - and that is very serious - that you legitimized tax fraud. On the pretext of raising funds they legitimized tax fraud, the Constitutional Court says this unanimously. Look what things, most of those who abstained and said about tax fraud that nothing happened, then they were, precisely, involved in corruption proceedings. Yes, of corruption, that which you do not like to name, Mr Rajoy. And then what happened? They only raised EUR 12 billion when they had to raise EUR 8 billion. Therefore, do not come triumphantly; you are legitimising tax fraud with your tax amnesties and from my parliamentary group we ask you, we demand you to have, please, zero tolerance to tax fraud. We cannot demand that citizens pay their taxes, that they contribute while the great fortunes and the corrupt welcome their tax amnesty. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u7	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u8	Your Honor has quoted here a few agencies that say that there are twenty billion on the one hand, and several billion on the other. I would like to thank them and you - who have no doubt informed you - for bringing this to the attention of the Minister of Finance, who has the security that we would act immediately. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, we have already discussed the rulings of the Constitutional Court here on some occasions. You know exactly as I do - because you have read the operative part of the judgment - that the reason why the Constitutional Court declared contrary to the Constitution is a formal reason, because we did so by decree-law and not by a bill. In any case, this is all very well, what you have said and what I have said, but the data are difficult to discuss. Over the past five years - as I have said before - more than EUR 65 billion has been raised in the fight against tax fraud, which is exactly 48 % more than in the previous five years. So, if we are as ineffective as you have said, I do not want to tell you the effectiveness of the previous government that raised 48 per cent less. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF Iglesias TURRIÓN, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNITY MAY IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT DOES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT LOOK TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT THAT HIS NAME HAS BEEN CONFIRMED 'INDICIALLY'? IN THIS SAME HOUSE BY THE CHIEF INSPECTOR OF UDEF AS A RECEPTOR OF ILLEGAL COVERS FROM THE BOX OF YOUR PARTY? [[File number 180/00437]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u9	He also asks the president of the government of the deputy Fr. Pablo Iglesias Turrión, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. M. Rajoy, what do you think your name has been confirmed in this very House by the head inspector of the UDEF as receiving illegal charges from your party's box B? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u12	What I think is that yesterday, as you know perfectly well, that information has been denied. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u13	Mr. Churches, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. M. Rajoy, I'm sorry to say that what you're pointing out is not true. I'll read you the legal definition of index evidence. Indicative evidence is the one that allows to give for accredited in a judicial process facts from the estimation of proven other related facts, from which one can reasonably deduce the certainty or accreditation of the former. In Roman paladin, Mr. Rajoy, two things have been credited: one, that you charged illegal surcharges regularly from at least 1997 to 2008; two, that you lied when you stated in court that you never charged surcharges. This shame doesn't cover her any flag, Mr. Rajoy. [[Applauds]] And it is not that I say that you are corrupt, it is that the head inspector of the UDEF made it very clear in his statement last day 7 in this House, when he described the Gürtel - literal quote - as an organization that has fallen to very deep levels in the public administrations until it comes to parasitizing them. He described it - literal quote - as pure corruption. And we already know each other, Mr Rajoy, and I reckon you're going to ask me now about Iran, about Venezuela and you're going to tell me I'm the Spanish Inquisition. [[Laughter]] Well, in the government's control session, the opposition is not expected to respond to the government, so I'm going to allow myself to get ahead of your questions. [[Laughter]] Although his political police tried to fabricate evidence against us, even though his admired pseudojournalists tried to fabricate evidence - what a beautiful photo of Mr. Inda yesterday with the criminal of his party, Mr. Granados, eating before appearing in the Senate!-, the truth is that reality is determined by three facts. [[Rumors]] One, justice has dismissed the charges against us up to 14 times. Two, the bosses of the Clean Hands group are in jail. Three, this Congress proved that you used the police to produce evidence. You know what you said, Mr. Rajoy, the UDEF inspector last Tuesday? Literal quote: The People's Party responds to the role of a criminal organization. Do you know what members of criminal organizations are called, Mr. M. Rajoy? Offenders. [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause.- Rumours]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u15	Quiet, please. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u16	I had no intention, Mr. Iglesias, of talking about what happened yesterday in the Senate, but since you have endeavoured to do so, I could reply to this House if it is true, as Mr. Rioboo said, that you paid and charged in B. That should explain it in this House. [[Applauds]] You should also explain in this House whether you and your party have been financed by Venezuela and Iran, and also what your friend, Mr. Monedero, was doing, traveling for seven consecutive years to receive resources from the Government of Venezuela. That has not been explained, but you have been the one who spoke here about Venezuela and the one who has spoken here about Iran. Actually, you always ask me the same thing. He even came to me with a motion of censure. It gives the feeling that you are obsessed and that this is all that matters to you. But anyway, I don't know why you ask me why it brings you exactly without care what I can answer you, because you are both a police officer, a judge, a prosecutor, an investigating judge and, in addition, a sentencing court. The truth is that this form of opposition, Mr. Iglesias, obviously does not work for you; every time you come here you have less votes and less support from the Spanish. [[Laughter]] They will end up putting to you the motion of censure and, the worst of all - for you, of course - is that it can thrive, especially after the latest events and after the last decisions you have taken in Catalonia. In any case, Mr. Churches, I sell advice, which I don't have. Apply it to her. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF ALBERT RIVERA DÍAZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE IN THE MANAGEMENT OF THE SOCIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL SITUATION OF CATALUNIA? [[File number 180/00436]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u17	He also asked the President of the Government of Mr Albert Rivera Díaz of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, nationalism is the poison of Europe, Jean Claude Juncker said recently in Salamanca. Mr Macron also said that nationalism has shown us the bonfire where Europe can perish. I subscribe to Mr Juncker's words, I subscribe to Mr Macron's words. And since nationalism is the danger of Europe, Mr Rajoy, in Catalonia we have an election called where nationalism has tried, and is still trying, to destroy our country, and the Government and the State have called those elections. Mr Rajoy, nobody escapes that all anti-European nationalists are going to work so that in Catalonia these elections are not held with guarantees or freedom. And I don't say that, the European Union is warning you now, secret services are also warning you. I would like to ask you, Mr Rajoy, what your Government and Presidency are going to do, specifically on whom national security depends, to prevent them from hacking elections, sabotaging Catalan elections, interference from foreign countries with the outcome of those elections. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u20	I believe, Mr Rivera, that things are being done - and are difficult - in a reasonable way. We started, as the whole House knows, Article 155 for the first time in our country's history; we did it to regain legality and normalcy. Among other decisions we cease the Government of Catalonia; also for the first time in history. In parallel, justice acted with full independence. No country in the European Union or in the world has supported the independenceists and today I can tell you that things are better, that public services are working well, that public employees are carrying out their role professionally and that we have ahead of us an election that I hope will open up a new stage of tranquillity. I am worried about the economy, because the forecast of economic growth we have said would be for the year 2018 of 2,3, but if things went well in Catalonia and as of January next year there would be tranquility, the economy could grow at the rate of 3%, as it has done in the years 2015, 2016 and 2017. I am absolutely convinced that the elections are going to be held, unlike the so-called referendum that we live on 1 October, in a climate of normality and tranquillity; for the moment, everyone is going to stand for the elections by accepting the regulations contained in the Constitution and the Statute, and from there, we will take all necessary measures to ensure that their fears do not translate into anything worrying. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Rivera, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u22	Thank you, Madam President. I share what you have said, but I was asking you, in particular, what the Government is going to do - in this case the Department of National Security, which is under the presidency and in which you are in - to prevent cyber attacks, sabotage and hacking of foreign powers. The question is very clear. Mr Dastis was referring to this the other day in an interview, we are being warned by the European Union, Holland had to change its voting system and do so in a traditional way to prevent the hacking by Russia, we also had that situation in France and the United States has confirmed the attack on infrastructure... [[Mrs Villalobos Talero utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u23	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u24	Mrs. Villalobos, I'm done. ... the attack on the structures of the French elections. There was a cyber attack on one of the candidates, on Mr. Macron, despite his victory at last, and I ask him what our Government, who is calling the elections, is going to do, and what the Department of National Security, which is depending on you, is doing to prevent them from being hacked and sabotaged. The question cannot be clearer. Mr Rajoy, the enemies of Europe do not rest, the enemies of Spain, which are the same, neither, and the nationalists, moreover, boast of having dangerous friendships between those who try to break Spain and break Europe. I therefore believe that we have sufficient reason to be concerned and I want the Government to do its job. That is why I ask you, as it is up to you directly, the Presidency, the Government, to do its work, I hope that your Government will take care of that and that you have the full support of this group so that free elections can be held in Catalonia, with guarantees, and without anyone trying to manipulate the decision of the Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u25	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Rivera. It is true that there are countries that have been forced to make decisions, but, of course, decisions are not counted before they are made, but once they have taken effect after the elections have been held. What I can assure you is that, without prejudice to all the friends who have the separatist lords to whom you have referred, we have very important friends who are the Spanish Constitution and the law, and that is why Article 155 is under way, that is why the Government has been ceased, that is why elections are held on 21 December, and that is why all these political parties are running for elections in the framework of Spanish legality. Therefore, trust in the Spanish lawfulness, which is equipped with sufficient instruments for things to work democratically and people to vote freely and to take the decisions they deem appropriate and appropriate. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL Adriana LASTRA FERNANDEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT CONCLUSIONS FOR THE POLITICAL RESPONSIBILITY OF THE GOVERNMENT EXTRACTS THE VICE-President OF THE PARLIAMENTARY ACTIVITY OF THE LAST WEEK. [[File number 180/00441]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u27	Questions now addressed to the Vice-President of the Government, Minister of the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations. He asked first of all for Mrs Adriana Lastra Fernández of the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, in the last few days we have heard very harsh statements in this House about the People's Party, about the President of the Government, by the mouths of senior police officials, and not by any police officers, but by the inspectors who, with their work, against wind and tide, unveiled the Gürtel plot. That is why we ask you what conclusions the Vice-President draws for the political responsibility of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u29	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Lastra, yes, this week we have heard those statements and precisely the opposite ones. I don't know what you're talking about. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lastra, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u32	A few days ago Inspector Morocho, who knows all of Spain, stated in this Chamber that President Rajoy allegedly collected black money from the PP; that there are indications that the structure of the PP responded to the profile of a criminal organization, and that Gürtel is pure corruption. What the inspector has said is very scandalous, but it is also nothing new, Madam Vice-President. The only new thing is to hear it in this House without intermediaries, directly from the police officer who unveiled Gürtel within a Commission to control the financing of the government party. Do not remind us either that the matter is in court; we know that. No Spanish will be forgotten the image of the President of the Government declaring in a court by a corrupt plot of his party. But we also know - and you should know this - that political responsibility is pre-emptive of criminal responsibility, and that political responsibility is borne here in political bodies and not in the courts. Moreover, when the signs multiply they become certainties; and in politics, certainties should generate political responsibilities as well. They have been hiding in the first place for years to try to make us forget that Gürtel was born in the bowels of the People's Party; that from his party a network of corrupt plots has been woven throughout the country and that no one has assumed political responsibilities. They've been running forward for years against everything they put in their way: police, judges and prosecutors; and yesterday we heard again about this issue of prosecutors. Inspector Morocho has come to talk about seven complaints against police officers and all seven were filed. Look, it carries so much that life becomes impossible because they can't with the weight; they can't with the weight of the finiquitos in deferred, the computers destroyed, the SMS asking for strength, the Jaguar in the garages, the clowns in the parties, the crazy nights in the Pigmalion, the envelopes of black money sharing for all, the millions of euros in illegal commissions stripped of policies for the citizens. And this will not be forgotten because, to their misfortune, this society has collective memory, and that does not erase as easily as that of a computer. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u33	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Lastra, in a democratic and legal state like ours, judicial responsibility is decided by the courts and political responsibility is decided by the citizens; and as we are talking about very old cases, citizens have decided that political responsibility on numerous occasions. And what have they done? To judge, of course, the People's Party much better than the Socialist Party. Therefore, the work you come to do here has already been done by citizens long before. [[Applauds]] You say that judicial decisions must be respected. Well, go ahead and apply the story, now and within a month, because within a month I am convinced that you will say: respect that the courts speak and that the courts decide. And you know why? Because two former presidents of the Socialist Party and half a dozen councillors of your party will sit on the bench as accused, Mrs. Lastra, as accused, not to collaborate with justice, but to be accountable to it in the greatest fraud that has existed in our country and that is called the ERW. And you want us to talk about commissions of inquiry? Let's talk, because of all those cops you're talking about, your own boss yesterday denied and contradicted your version. Therefore, Mrs Lastra, if you come here, come with all the full arguments. But since there are commissions of inquiry, Mr Cornide also appeared yesterday, do you know him? He is the treasurer of his party, which turns out that out of a debt of forty million euros of its financing he has paid six. And do you know what it seemed like to say yesterday in the Finance Committee? That the Socialist Party like the rest of the Spanish, that in times of crisis the debt is renegotiated. Man, as far as I know the Spaniards give us 80% of the credit for the value of our flat, you forgive 80% of the debt. Dear Director General of the Treasury of Spain who has lost this country to Mr Cornide! That's how we managed our country's problems, Mrs. Lastra. [[Applauds]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, since you are talking about political responsibilities, you should exercise the political responsibility that belongs to the leader of the opposition and not look like the one who wants to take over the position; because since the Lords of Podemos are going down, what I do not explain is that you come to this House to follow your strategy. You see how it goes. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u35	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE DON FRANCESC XAVIER DOMENECH SAMPER, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO TAKE TO RESOLVE THE SITUATION IN WHICH CATALUNIA IS CURRENTLY FOUND? [[File number 180/00432]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u36	Question by Mr Don Francesc Xavier Domènech Sampere, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, I have certainly asked this question a thousand times and in a thousand different ways, and it is absolutely clear that you and we will not reach any agreement on the question of Catalonia, beyond finding that you have no project for Catalonia, and by not having it for Catalonia you have no project for Spain. All you have to do is apply the 155, call elections to see if that solves anything to you and, as Pablo Casado said, go back to the 155 if you don't like the result. If that's a political project, if that's a proposal... In fact, for you 155 has become almost a form of government; exceptionality has become a form of government both in Catalonia and in Spain. They do not act in this sense and have never done so in this case as a government, they act as a party, and as a party they have benefits, they get the support of Citizens, of course, and of the PSOE to their policies, they get that they do not talk about their cases of corruption, of the Gürtel, Punica, Bárcenas, Lezo, Taula, Palma Arena, Acuamed, etc. They can also attempt to build and force the constitution of a bloc of theirs with the Socialist Party and with Citizens in Catalonia, which is also a bloc that short-circuites the possibility of a progressive but state government. Although they do not have projects, it remains their responsibility as a Government, and as a Government I ask: What do they intend to do to solve the problem of the political crisis in Catalonia? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u38	Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Domènech, man, come here and talk about the others not reaching agreements after they have broken the Barcelona pact is coming very eagerly for a Wednesday morning. You ask what the Government of Spain is going to do. First of all, the Government has done something that is substantial to any democracy: that legality is respected and institutional normality is respected in Catalonia's self-government; that this self-government represents all Catalans. I know that you are not interested in that much, but we are interested in any Catalan feeling represented by its institutions and in the possibility that the economic deterioration and the ruin brought by the independenceists to Catalonia will be halted, and in passing, to call an election, yes, sir, to return the voice to the Catalans, and all with the support of more than 80% of the Senate. I know you don't think much of it because all the agreements you're not in are for you to criticize. I'm not running for election, you are. Therefore, it would be convenient for you to say for what and for whom you are asking for the vote in Catalonia, what you are proposing, but above all what you are proposing, Mr Domènech. It's your turn. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u40	Mr. Domènech, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u41	The defence that the People's Party of the Socialist Party of Catalonia does every day is beginning to be very moving, as it seems to be moving, it is also the defence that José María Aznar of Citizens is doing in Catalonia at the moment. [[Applauds]] What do I intend to do? Obviously, what I intend to do is not to build a patriotic bloc formed by the Socialist Party, Citizens and the People's Party to govern Catalonia against a part of the population and against a part of the voters of that bloc. What do we propose? We intend to work effectively for the real solutions, the solutions that once and for all go beyond the old blocks, the solutions that make Catalonia in all its diversity a progressive people, open to dialogue, who wants to be able to build their future freely, who wants social justice and who wants to... [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u42	Thank you very much. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u43	Mr Domènech, being a candidate and deputy is compatible, what is not compatible is presenting in Catalonia as a comparison to the independenceists and here wanting to appear as the champion of the Democrats, especially because for you democracy is decided by 300 militants of the commons, who have broken the pact in the City of Barcelona, where 1,700,000 inhabitants reside. That's what the inhabitants of Barcelona care about. They have broken a government, that of the City Council of Barcelona, as advance payment to be in another, that of the Generalitat of Catalonia, at the hand of their colleagues the independenceists. Therefore, do not come to me here to speak of self-government when you only care to put spoon in the Government of the Generalitat. You speak of sides but, Mr Domènech, if it seems that Mrs Colau aspires to lead the independenceist side. Mrs Colau is going to demonstrations that she calls political prisoners, a condition that Mr Garzón, absent from this House today, no longer gives them. Mrs. Colau doesn't know if there is a republic in Catalonia or not, when it turns out that even the Republican Left of Catalonia itself says it is inviable. And Mrs. Colau denies 155 and refuses to admit that Puigdemont is no longer president, which does even the very Forcadell in court. So you talk about sides, you want to lead the independence side. Finally, Mr. Domènech...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u44	Time's up, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u45	Ah! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u46	Yeah, minus twenty-seven. The clock's had a problem again. Thank you very much. - OF THE BENIT BANDIAN GIFT OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMING THE GOVERNMENT: WHY DON'T YOU WANT TO RESPECT THE COMPETITIVE FRAMEWORK WITH YOUR NEGATIVE TO REGISTRATE LOCAL ENTITIES IN ITSASO'S MUNICIPY? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00434]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u47	Question by Mr Íñigo Barandiaran Benito, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group PNV. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, Itsaso is a municipality in Guipúzcoa that has had a city council for more than 500 years, and which was annexed in 1964 necessarily, without the knowledge or consent of its neighbours. Aware of this situation, Guipúzcoa's foral rule of territorial demarcations contemplates the possibility that those municipalities that were forcibly annexed in the 1960s could try to recover their previous town hall, which happened with Itsaso through a foral decree. This foral decree was communicated to the Register of Local Entities for registration, which however denied it, because it gives value to its content and not to its requirements, affirms that it contradicts article 13 of the Local Regime Bases Act because it lacks sufficient population. That outlaw was appealed by the government... the vice president tells me that she does not listen, that she cannot hear me.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u49	One second, Your Honor. I ask the technical services to check your lordship's microphone. Put the microphone straight, please; this will be heard. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u50	He said that the decree granting the municipality of Itsaso was appealed by his Government, and yet he was not subject to suspension even of a request for interim measures, so we understand that he is still an executive and that the rule protecting him is still in force. Then can you explain to me, Madam Vice President, why in this situation you refuse to register in the Register of Local Entities in the municipality of Itsaso?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u51	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Barandiaran, I am grateful for your question because it serves to show that both the House and the Government are interested in any people in Spain, regardless of the number of their inhabitants. I didn't hear you well, but you and I know the Itsasus file. The segregated municipality of Itsaso has 158 inhabitants. The Local Sustainability Act requires a minimum of 5000 inhabitants to preserve the efficiency of public services in order to constitute a municipality. The Directorate-General for Relations with the Autonomous Communities and Local Corporations has analysed the requirements of Itsasus, Itsasus does not have enough population and therefore has not registered, it lacks 4842 inhabitants to be able to register. This Government complies with the law and, of course, what is pending is that all municipalities, including those of 158 inhabitants, receive adequate public services. For that the population is important. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Barandiaran, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u54	Madam Vice-President, in the first place, Itsaso is a municipality in Guipúzcoa, not in Vizcaya. Secondly, what does not result from the receipt is that the Government intends to monitor the activity of the general boards, which exercise a competence of a historical nature that is collected and protected in the first additional provision of the Constitution, understanding and indicating the requirements that must be met by a population in Guipúzcoa, and even more so when in this case an exception is being collected to the rule that is the product of an anti-democratic historical situation and unwanted by its neighbours. We understand that this interference by the Government in the intended control, both of the capacity of the outlaws to dictate acts and of the general boards to dictate rules, is an interference in their historical rights and in the self-government capacity of the Basques, and we believe that it is also a serious breach of the provisions of the Statute of Self-Government and the Act on Historical Territories. Therefore, Madam Vice-President, on the understanding that the rules and decisions of the outside bodies are still in force, I ask you to cease in this attitude that, if there is any discrepancy with the legality of the agreement, wait for the courts to express themselves on these extremes, and that in the meantime and as the first additional provision says, protecting and respecting the historical rights of the outside territories, order you to register in the Register of...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u55	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Barandiaran, I understand that it is not well heard, but I have never said that the municipality belongs to Vizcaya. Moreover, I am fully aware that a Basque Y station is going to be built in that locality, which is perhaps what motivates your question. The merger of the municipalities of Ezkio and Itsaso occurred in 1964, and since 1995 there was a rule that allowed the segregation of both municipalities, which was confirmed in 2003 and which precisely called for the neighbors of Itsaso. And you were eighteen years without segregating those municipalities, if so unjust was their accumulation. And you waited for the Local Sustainability Act to be passed to disaggregate both. They therefore waited for state requirements to exist to give you for separating both municipalities. [[Mr. Barandiaran Benito makes negative gestures]] Yeah, that was it. The Local Sustainability Act at this point has been fully declared constitutional, and also in the area of the population requirement, in a judgment of September 2017, which if you do not have it, Mr.Barandiaran, will be passed to study it. We therefore fully respect the Gernika Statute and know that they have competence in the municipal territorial demarcation, but the law of the State is basic legislation, and it is not capricious, so that all municipalities can have equal access to essential public services. And of course the issue is contentious, and we will be pending the decision of the courts. If you give reason to you, the municipality will be registered and if you do not, it will not be registered, and we will also ask you to merge it again. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u57	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Sofia Fernández Castanón, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America, we can in any way form the Minister of the Interior: can you assure the Government that the interposition of a complaint for violence against the general public is a guarantee of protection and of the means to save THE LIFE OF THE WOMEN WHO REPORT? [[File number 180/00439]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u58	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. First of all, she asks about Mrs Sofía Fernández Castañón of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u59	Thank you, President. Minister, can you assure the Government that filing a complaint for gender-based violence is a guarantee of protection and resources to save the lives of the woman who complains?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u60	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u61	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to show on behalf of the Government our strongest condemnation for the murder of Jessica in Elda and also for the murder of a minor of two years in Alcira. We also want to show our solidarity, affection and encouragement to all your friends and family. Your Honor, I can assure you that the filing of a complaint of gender-based violence or any other kind guarantees the protection and the resources for whom you report, but I cannot assure you unfortunately - and I do not have the slightest doubt that I would like to be able to do so - that this guarantees that whoever once attacked a woman will not do so again, and neither can we guarantee that her life is no longer in danger, because the zero risk unfortunately does not exist. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u62	Thank you very much. Mrs. Fernández Castañón, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u63	You see, I think it is difficult to applaud a little after that answer because, Minister, we ask you this question knowing that our police forces have neither financial resources nor materials nor training to be able to guarantee that security which you are talking about to the women who are going to report. We do not need to go to the recent and tragic cases of which we all suffer, we only need to listen to professional associations, which are unlikely to lack the truth. Your party is committed to reminding this parliamentary group that we abstained and throws it at us as an accusation, but what it does not say, and so I am going to put it to you when you tell me, is that we are voting in favour in the subcommittee so that this report can be brought here to the House, and we are going to demand and demand that all the measures in the report be complied with, because we consider them insufficient, because they do not go to the root of the problem, because they are poorly equipped economically and also do not take into account the feminist movement. But in that honesty, coherence and responsibility, just as we abstain, we demand that all measures be implemented. You are irresponsible, because you have only looked for the photo of this pact to divert President Rajoy's attention by declaring for the corruption of his party. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] They have done nothing in two months to carry out the measures. [[Protests]] They haven't implemented the measures in two months, so maybe we're not wrong when we call them irresponsible. Stop focusing on the victim, inviting her to report and raise her voice if they are not going to put economic and human resources in place so that our police and civilian guards can do their job well. Do you know, Minister, that many professionals have had to put money out of their pocket for hotel nights because they had nowhere to send women who reported having suffered gender-based violence? Do you know this situation, because it seems to me that you are not putting in place the necessary means? The latest prevention campaign holds neighbours and friends accountable for not doing enough. If they don't change things, I give you the motto of the following campaign, which will be more honest: The Spanish Government is very sorry that it has not done enough against the macho violence in this country. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u64	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. Not because he's yelling more, he's gonna be more right. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u66	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u67	It seems a lie that links any subject, whatever nature, to that of gender-based violence; that it is able - I insist - to link a subject, whatever it is, to the death not only of Jessica, but also of the forty-three women who have died this year victims of violence by men. That can't be done. [[Applauds]] For the Government of Spain it is an absolute priority. The State Security Forces and Bodies have training and specialization, so do not come here to tell any tales or pay attention to something that is the fruit of your imagination. It is an absolute priority and is being worked on in a cross-cutting way. Moreover, I would say that it is not only a priority of the Government, but also of all the responsible political parties that have signed or are going to sign the State Pact against Gender Violence in the coming days. It's our responsibility. It contains more than two hundred cross-cutting measures, which will be able, despite the risk of violence by many men, to combat and eradicate that scourge that our society has. More than 200 measures and more than EUR 1 billion so that in five years we can carry forward this ambitious plan that all political groups are going to adopt in this House in the near future. All I'm saying is, where's the irresponsibility? In his statements, but above all in the lack of commitment of his group, which has been the only one who has not signed the State Pact to be able to combat gender-based violence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u68	Thank you very much. - OF THE MIGUEL ANGEL GUTIERREZ VIVAS, IN SUPPORT OF DON JUAN CARLOS GIRAUTA VIDAL, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF SUPPLY AND PUBLIC SERVICE: WHAT BUDGETARY MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE TO ADOPTE TO START THE SALARY EQUIPMENT PROCESS OF FFCCSSEE WITH THE IMPROVED AUTONOMIC POLICIES? [[File number 180/00435]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u69	He also asked the Minister of the Interior, Mr Miguel Ángel Gutiérrez Vivas, of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u70	Thank you, Madam President, In fact, this question was addressed to the Minister of Finance, to Mr Montoro, because you and I know that you are not going to tell me anything about any commitment by your Government to achieve the desired wage parity between the Civil Guard, the National Police and the rest of the autonomous police, because you and I know that it is not up to you, that you cannot commit to this, but you are also not able to adequately transfer to Mr Montero this need and this demand made by the national police, the civil guards and the whole of society. It is fair, Minister, because you know perfectly well that the same work and salary is a fair request, but nothing is achieved. Minister, what part do you intend to include your Government in the 2018 budgets to achieve wage parity between the Civil Guard, the National Police and the autonomous bodies, Mossos d'Esquadra and Ertzaintza primarily? Thank you, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u71	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u72	Thank you very much, President. Mr Gutiérrez, as you are well aware, there is a great deal of work being done by the Ministry of the Interior, together with the Ministry of Finance and the rest of the Government, in order to determine, first of all, the wage differences between the National Police and the Civil Guard, which is the first element that has been studied. Secondly, we must begin to analyse, as we are already doing, the wage differences that exist with the rest of the regional and local police, which must also be looked at. Why are we doing this? Because it is of justice and because the government has committed itself for the first time to include it in the upcoming 2018 budgets. Why do I tell you this, Mr. Gutierrez? Because much has been said here, but to do so only the People's Party government has committed itself. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u73	Mr. Gutierrez, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you're laughing. What do you want me to say? To say now that you have committed and that you carry this after you have not presented... What's the commitment? You didn't tell me anything about the engagement. Mr President of the Government, Mr Rajoy, in 2009 he committed himself to making this equalisation with a civilian guard on a television programme. In 2011 you put him on your electoral programme, although we already know that the People's Party does not carry out its electoral programmes and never carries them out, and in the end he ends up defrauding all those who vote for him. Minister, that's right. If you really wanted to do that, yesterday the President himself told us that he was going to do it little by little. Little by little. If they had done so since 2009 or since 2011, it would not have been nine years. Even if you put all the necessary funds into the 2018 budget to make this salary equalization, it would have been nine years. See if it's little by little! Minister, I'll tell you one thing. On Saturday you have a demonstration in Madrid of police and civilian guards, to which you will also accompany a good part of Spanish society, because this is of justice and the citizens know it. I believe that you will again be failing to fulfil the commitment with all of them today to make this match, because you have no idea what money Mr Montoro is going to put in to make it. I tell you, if this is not the case, Citizens will not support the 2018 budgets, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u75	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u76	Thank you very much, President. Mr Gutiérrez, I am convinced that you, like the People's Party and the Government of Spain, think that it is necessary to achieve the greatest possible balance between the salaries of all police forces as soon as possible. In that line we are working, and you know that I have met countless times with the Civil Guard associations, with police unions and also with you. I will therefore make it very clear to you: the commitment of Mariano Rajoy's People's Party Government is to begin to include wage equality from the 2018 budgets. For the first time, one is subject to this commitment. [[Applauds]] He says that nine years ago Mr. Rajoy was the one who committed himself. How was he going to commit? When he arrived in the Government at the end of 2011, he already knows the crisis he encountered. Here's a newspaper: tail van, open letter to the Minister of the Interior. [[Show a document]] This is nothing more and nothing less than when he was Minister of the Interior José Luis Corchera, and shows a payroll of a local police in Madrid, a payroll of a national police and a payroll of an ertzaina. From here on, they started looking for pay equity. Only the People's Party government has committed itself for the first time and formally to include it in the 2018 budgets. Everything else has been chatter. Approve the budgets and starting next year will begin the salary equalization... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u77	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT OPINION DO THE POLICE ACTIVITIES OF THE LAST DAYS DESERVE TO THE GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/00431]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u78	Question also addressed to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u79	Thank you very much, President. Minister, Mr Zoido, you know me badly because it's not about conspiracy or judeomasonic cyber attacks. I'm not from Citizens. It goes as follows: what opinion do the government deserve from recent police actions in Catalonia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u80	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u81	Thank you very much, President. He has just made a little more concrete the indefinitiveness of his question, which referred only to the police proceedings carried out in recent days. I was going to tell him that there are hundreds or thousands that occur throughout Spain. But if you are referring to those that have been carried out in Catalonia, I have to tell you that they are the normal ones that have been produced. By giving him the last one that has occurred today, the National Police has just arrested seven people of that so-called ultra trend, who were the ones who formed a tumultuous contest in the Plaza de Catalunya on October 12. Seven people have been arrested through the Information Brigade. These have been the latest and most recent actions of the National Police in Catalonia. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u82	Mr. Rufian, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u83	Thank you very much, President. Minister, Mr Zoido, look at me. Do you know what this is? [[Show me some wives.-Rumbles.-Laughter.]] Don't get nervous, I know some people would love to see me with one of these someday. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u84	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u85	Be patient. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u86	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u87	Minister, do you know what this is? [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'll call you by your name.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u89	Minister, look at me. Do you know what this is? I'll tell him. This is your policy. This is your election program. This is what he applied, it is the dialogue that your Government and yourself applied to our colleagues, to the legitimate Government of Catalonia. This is what put them in their wrists before putting them in a police van and walking around Madrid, insulting them before incarceration in Estremera and Alcalá Meco. Minister, I recommend you look at me, because I will be very clear: you have made your prisons our nightmare. I assure you that we will make our ballot boxes yours. Minister, I recommend that you look at me, because you have beaten us to death. [[Rumors]] I assure you that we will grind them to vows. By the way, I wish there was an M. Rajoy's with one of these someday. Thank you very much. [[Rumors.-Applause.-Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u90	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]] Quiet. [[Rumors]] Quiet. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u91	You've had your day of glory, that minute for which you come here, for which you appear. We will not agree, because what are to you savages who beat, and that you have said in this very House, to me are public servants who are defending the freedom and rights of others, even those of those like you who insult and even threaten them. [[Applauds]] But I will assure you one thing: nothing comes out for free; anyone who disrespects the State Security Forces and Corpses who know they are going to have to answer for it, so some of Reus's colleagues are going to have to testify before the judge about these crimes that are called hate, for inciting and expelling the police from their people. In the transfer each and every requirement of the protocol was met. I'm sorry that there might be any small injury or erosion. I'm sorry, as any person regrets, but I assure you that the protocol has been complied with. I'll tell you one thing. You, Mr. Rufián, don't like the law to be enforced, but you don't like to keep your word, either, and I'm going to tell you why. Now you have the opportunity to use twice as many characters for tweets, but I can tell you that you said you were only going to be in Congress eighteen months. Since March, time has passed, and you're still here. Maybe what you haven't plugged back in was that printer you brought in, and that's why you couldn't print out your resignation or maybe... [[applause.-Rumores.-Mr Rufián Romero leaves the Chamber and makes a visor salute, addressed to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u92	Thank you very much. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. - OF MR CARLES CAMPUZANO I CANADAS, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: WILL THE GOVERNMENT REQUEST THE RESULT OF THE ELECTIONS OF 21D? [[File number 180/00433]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u93	Question now by Mr Carles Campuzano i Canades, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, does the government intend to respect the results of 21 December? Looks like an obvious question with a very obvious answer, doesn't it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u95	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Campuzano, I am curious about your question, and the only reason I see for asking whether the Government is going to respect the outcome of elections that have been convened with all the legal guarantees, in a country where we have had more than forty years of stable and consolidated democracy, is that there are people who do not respect the law, the Constitution or the statute. But I want to reassure him. Be calm because those people who do not respect the law, the Constitution or the statutes are not in the Government, are not in the People's Party, but are in their Government and have also been in their Party. What I can therefore assure you is that the Government of the People's Party is going to accept the results of the elections to the Parliament of Catalonia, always complying with the Constitution and the statute. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u97	Mr. Campuzano, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u98	Minister, I am not at ease when one of your spokesmen says that if the sovereignist political forces win the elections again, the intervention of the Government of Catalonia will be maintained. Less democratic respect for the democratic will of Catalans is unimaginable. Indeed, 21 December will be a test on the functioning of democracy in Spain. So far, this Government has suspended all democratic tests on how to address the Catalan question: they have imposed the tyranny of the absolute majority of these Courts by refusing to seek political agreement on the Catalan question, they have imposed the logic of confrontation before the Constitutional Court, denying all possible legal avenues for the Catalans to decide their future and to be embarrassed, they have judicialized the political life of Catalonia with criminal disputes, and today in Spain there are again political prisoners - and that makes the political solution even more difficult - they have used violence against Catalan citizens who on 1 October were exercising their rights, they have intended to punish and humiliate Catalan society. And yes, 21 December will be a plebiscite on the implementation of 155 - in our view unconstitutional - on the violence that has been exercised in Catalonia, on the imprisonment of members of the Government of Catalonia, on the imprisonment of Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez and on the democratic legitimacy of the decisions taken by Parliament and the Government during these years. It is up to you to respect the democratic will of the Catalans, and if the sovereignist political forces win the elections again to sit down and negotiate with those institutions - seeking a political solution to the desire of the Catalans to decide our political future -, to free the political prisoners and to restore the full self-government of Catalonia. They must respect the will of the Catalans, they cannot impose their will, they cannot prevent us from achieving our legitimate aspirations for freedom, democracy and self-government. Respect... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u99	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u100	Thank you, President. Mr Campuzano, it was you who humiliated Catalan society, because you misled Catalans. [[Applauds]] You are defending the citizens' order, but I assure you that it comes from an electoral paripé: a referendum convened in a parliamentary session in which you are denied participation in the opposition, and declared illegal by the Constitutional Court and rejected by the electoral board; on the same day of its celebration you decide what can be done and how to vote; there is no census, there is no guarantee to prevent anyone who wants to do it four or five times, as has been seen; the ballot boxes are put on the street, you vote and everyone does what they want. However, they come here and allow themselves the luxury of questioning the legitimate government of the People's Party of the nation, which only does it respect the law, the Constitution and the democratic system. Perhaps if you state in that way that you are certainly not going to respect yourself, you are questioning your lack of credibility, but above all the changes you are having. I am going to ask you two questions which I think are much more convenient: are you prepared to assume that the elections of 21 December are an autonomous election to elect the representatives of the Parliament of Catalonia, within what determines the Constitution and the status of autonomy? Are you prepared to respect the law, the Constitution and the statute of autonomy once and for all and stop acting arbitrarily and irregularly? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u101	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs MeritxELL BATET LAMANA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS AND COOPERATION: WILL THE GOVERNMENT OF THEIR EXERCISES BE INCLUDED TO ENCOURAGE THE HEADING OF THE EUROPEAN MEDICINAL PRODUCT AGENCY? [[File number 180/00442]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u102	Questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. Question by Mrs Meritxell Batet Lamaña from the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u103	Thank you, President. Minister, we know that the final decision is not being taken - it will be on 20 November - but some information has recently appeared in the press that gives us some concern. That is why we wanted to know what the Spanish Government is going to do to get the European Medicines Agency to live in Barcelona and to establish its headquarters there.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u104	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Batet, the Spanish Government has supported Barcelona's candidacy from the outset because we believe it is a solid and forward-looking candidacy in the face of those who proclaim impossible futures. We believe that this is a good candidacy for Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain and the European Union, and the Commission has in fact noted this. We believe this because the agency's own officials have also chosen Barcelona as their preferred option. We believe that it ensures continuity because it has a fantastic building, because it has a plan to support these citizens and because it has the fantastic infrastructure that Barcelona enjoys. We know that the situation is not ideal, unfortunately, because of the circumstances that Catalonia has experienced in recent weeks, but it is clear that we will redouble our efforts. Far from discouraging ourselves, we are making great efforts at all levels in the Government, also in society and in political groups, and in this context I would like to thank your party for its support for these efforts, which we are going to redouble, as I say, until 20 this month. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs Batet Lamaña.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u107	Thank you, President. Catalan society has been suffering in recent months from the great irresponsibility of the Government of Catalonia until recently. The Barcelona society is now also suffering from Mrs Colau's great irresponsibility. I am aware that having an ex-health advisor fled to Brussels and a mayor of Barcelona who makes decisions out of personal ambition and not thinking about the political project for her city does not help, it does absolutely nothing. Mr Dastis, we are not dealing with any negotiation, nor are we at any political moment, and by your words I understand that you are fully aware. That is why, from the Socialist Group, we wanted to ask your Government to let go of this negotiation. The Government of Spain has to act at international level in order to transmit its commitment to Barcelona as Catalan capital, as Spanish capital and as European capital in a diaphanous way. A few months ago Barcelona was the favorite city in this race to get the European Medicines Agency. What's happened so far? Legal insecurity, political instability, company flight and a mayor who acts as an independentist, which clearly implies her Eurosceptic bet as well. We know that all this hinders the negotiations, but we also know that the so far second lieutenant of Mayor Jaume Collboni, leader of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, has given everything to get the European Medicines Agency to go to Barcelona, and will continue to work on it even if it is outside the government at the moment. The Barcelonans and the Barcelonans deserve this bet and this country deserves this bet. That is why, Minister, I ask the Government of Spain to make every effort to get the European Medicines Agency to go to Barcelona. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u108	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u109	Thank you very much. Mrs Batet, this is a request that I take up and I guarantee you that we will leave our skin on it. I have already told you that the government has always believed in Barcelona's candidacy, and it continues to believe, although in these circumstances you have described it in a way that I share is a battle that looks difficult, but you have no doubt that we will do so. We are going to do this for Barcelona, because the arrival of the Medicines Agency in Barcelona would mean a backlash not only for Barcelona but also for all of Spain; for the European Union in its fight against populism and nationalism; for the economy of Barcelona, for the entrepreneurial dynamism that it would generate and for its impact on the health sciences in the history of pharmaceutical excellence that Catalonia has. He has no doubt that we see him as a candidacy that unites and we are going to work for it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u110	Thank you very much. - OF MR GUILLERMO MARISCAL ANAYA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS AND COOPERATION: WHAT VALUATION DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE Twelfth CONFERENCE OF PRESIDENTS OF THE OVERSIZED REGIONS? [[File number 180/00446]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u111	He also asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Mr Guillermo Mariscal Anaya of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u112	Thank you. Minister, what is the view of the Government of the XII Conference of Presidents of Ultraperipheral Regions? Canary Islands will preside over it during 2018; they are territories that have common and permanent circumstances: remoteness, insularity, isolation and reduced size. All of this contributes to enormous dependence and economic vulnerability, as shown by the unemployment data of each and every one of these regions. Article 349 of the Treaty on Union establishes the need to adapt European policies to these territories in order to ensure that all European citizens, wherever we live, have access to them. Ladies and gentlemen, the Canary Islands will have a privileged relationship during that year with the European institutions at a time when regional policy will be decided beyond 2020. Its geostrategic position is privileged and this constitutes an opportunity for Spain. We need to achieve among all imaginative solutions that allow us to test or implement policies that are developed or tested in the Canary Islands and then to be exported to the neighbouring countries of the European Union in Africa. I am referring to policies related to biodiversity, the blue economy, the circular economy, adaptation to climate change and, of course, the transition to clean energy and electricity mobility. Our parliamentary group, Mr Dastis, would like to thank you for the extraordinary work your ministry and team are doing to ensure that the European Commission adapts the Juncker Plan to the uniqueness of the Canary Islands. By doing so, we will obtain investment and financing from the European Investment Bank to achieve infrastructure and innovation projects that contribute to the generation of wealth and employment on our islands. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u113	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Mariscal. The Government made a very positive assessment of the XII Conference of Presidents of the Outermost Regions, which had just been held at the end of October in Cayenne. It coincides, as you well know, with the presentation of the Commission's renewed strategy for the outermost regions, which seeks to take into account the needs and priorities set by those regions, which are the result of the coordination work between the national and regional administrations of the countries concerned. President Juncker, who presented this strategy in Cayena, recalled that the Commission will try to do prevention and preparedness work to take into account the needs of the outermost regions in new legislative initiatives or trade agreements; it will take these interests into account in all its policies and priorities. It announced concrete measures that are very important, such as the transfer of EUR 4 million for the Horizon 2020 programme for research and innovation, the agreements with the European Investment Bank to finance investments in these regions and also the extension of the Erasmus programme to neighbouring countries in these regions. The Spanish Government, as it could not otherwise be, supports this plan, supports this strategy and will strongly support the work of the Canary Islands, taking into account their interests and also taking into account that it will chair this Conference of Presidents of the Ultraperipheral Regions until the end of 2018. It can therefore count on our support and the objective that the outermost regions are at the heart of Europe, although geographically they can be found far away. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u115	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED SUSANA SUMELZAO JORDAN, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHAT ACTIONS HAVE TAKEN THE GOVERNMENT TO ENFORCEMENT THE GOVERNMENT'S GOVERNMENT RULE APPLICABLE TO ASSISTANCES? [[File number 180/00443]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u116	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Firstly, a question from Mrs Susana Sumelzo Jordan of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Montoro, what has the Government done to bring the expenditure rule that applies to municipalities into line?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u118	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, Mrs Sumelzo, the Government fulfils its obligation to implement the Stability Act, where the expenditure rule is a component. I would also like to thank you for asking this question because we are all going to make this rule known; a rule of European governance, a rule transferred to Spain in the Financial Stability and Sustainability Act, a rule that applies to all public administrations and that in no way applies only to local corporations. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u120	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sumelzo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u121	Mr Montoro, on more than one occasion I have told you that you are going to pass into history as the most anti-municipalist minister and today I have to reiterate it to you. I'm really sorry, but there's no way to understand that obsession that you have to punish the municipalities that are fulfilling, that have reduced their deficit, that are doing things right and that they are meeting with an inflexible minister who demands what their own government does not comply with. What kind of cynicism is that, Mr. Montoro? Your government has failed to comply with the spending rule - we listened to it in yesterday's debate here - in 2014, in 2015 and 2016 and the municipalities have complied with it by presenting, year after year, a surplus that you prevent them from using in policies that directly affect their neighbours, the inhabitants of those municipalities. A surplus that, by the way, comes to you very well to cover the government's breaches. Mr Montoro, you mocked the municipalities and the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces when just a year ago you committed to creating a working group to review the deficit rule and today, eleven months later, you have only met once. The FEMP, at that meeting, has put forward a number of proposals to you and to date you have not received an answer; you have given the silence for reply and that silence, Mr Montoro, is very bad, very uncomfortable and leaves you in a very bad situation with the mayors, who do not understand this ill-treatment by the government, who do not understand that at the gates of preparing their municipal budgets the Rajoy Government - your Government, Mr Montoro - does not want to hear or talk about adapting the rule of spending, which is so unfair. Mr Montoro, it is outrageous that the same minister who forgave the billions of the financial ransom strangles the municipalities that are fulfilling their obligations. Please... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u122	Thank you. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Sumelzo, what I assure you is that I do something, I will do it more or less correctly, but something I do, I am absolutely certain. When we arrived at the government in 2011, the proposal on the table - and it was not government - was to close more than 4000 municipalities in Spain, where we have 8125. Today these municipalities are all open, the vast majority healed, with a budget surplus, recovering their functions and staffing. Is that anti-municipality? [[Mrs. Sumelzo Jordan makes affirmative signs]] Then I left it to you, a socialist government that left thousands of municipalities bankrupt. [[Protests]] Was it like that or not? Didn't I get up one day in this seat at the end of 2012 to say we couldn't pay the payroll? Wasn't it me? [[Applauds]] Yes, it was me, because we couldn't pay the payroll of those municipalities, those administrations in Spain. Today we are on something else and that is because we are implementing laws, because we are in European governance and this minister has no capacity to interpret those laws and that European governance; that is to be Europe. I don't know what you understand is the function of a minister. I also thank you for this monitoring session because I have just learned that the ministry has not responded to the meeting held in September. I'll take care of it, Mrs. Sumelzo. I assure you that there will be a response from the Ministry regarding the outcome of that meeting, because the meeting with the FEMP was held. We will continue to work, but we will always do it under the European mantle, and we will not be able to change... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u124	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF SAURA GARCIA PEDRO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF PRACTICE AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: HOW MANY CONTRIBUTING TO THE DIFFERENT PAPERS OF THE INTERNATIONAL CONSORTION OF INVESTIGATION PERIODISTS ON TAX PARADIS HAVE ACCESSED TO THE TAX AMNISTIA? [[File number 180/00444]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u125	Question also addressed to the Minister for Finance of Mr Pedro Saura García of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, how many taxpayers of the roles of tax havens have taken up the tax amnesty? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u127	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Saura, there has been no tax amnesty in Spain for as long as you are committed, which you will do fifty times; what has been done is an extraordinary tax declaration, which is a regularization at lower tax rates. [[Rumors]] That's right, that's right. I understand that one thing is fame and another carding wool, but that's what happened. I would also like to say that these journalistic investigations that we have known are important; the Government appreciates the denunciation role that the press plays in this field and that it contributes so much to the eradication of tax fraud through the concealment of heritage activities in tax havens. As soon as such information is provided and published, the Tax Agency intervenes on its own initiative and conducts such investigations. This morning I am not in a position, because I do not have the data, to know whether the number of potential contributors in this information really corresponds to those who have made the ETD in their day or already have the model 720 presented. That is the work that the Tax Agency is doing; we will rely on the work and research it is carrying out and, from there on, in successive control sessions I will have the opportunity to inform the House. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u129	Mr. Saura, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, that there has been no tax amnesty? For more than sixty beneficiaries, with their names, have clarified that they have received the tax amnesty as a result of various judicial investigations and scandals in tax havens. You say that there has been no tax amnesty, but when a scandal of tax havens is discovered, when that appears, a good number of Spaniards immediately think that some of them took up the tax amnesty, and indeed so, they took up the tax amnesty because the tax amnesty is a tax haven in Spain; the tax amnesty has favored tax havens as it has allowed to make the illegal legal for the modest price of 3%. When there is a corruption scandal in Spain, immediately many Spaniards think that surely someone has taken up the tax amnesty, and indeed correct, some of those who appear in the plot have taken up the tax amnesty. And to top it all off, yesterday we found out that a famous footballer from our country has registered to the office you founded earlier to defend him from various tax offences because he also has money in tax havens. Do you understand, Mr Montoro, why the Spanish fiscal conscience is on the ground? Do you understand? That is why, since you have not resigned, since you have not ceased, this Parliament should know everything that is happening, all the research and the results. In this Parliament, a committee would have to be set up to analyse everything that has happened to tax fraud and also to tax havens. If we want to have the necessary decency, if we want to have a strong, strong, healthy and quality democracy, we need this Parliament to know everything that has happened, Mr Montoro. There was indecent tax amnesty, Mr Montoro, indecent. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u131	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Morality was left to Mr Saura and also left to the socialist governments, which had not discovered the EUR 40 billion declared at the end of 2012. Where were the socialist governments? Looking the other way? Because there were EUR 40 billion and more than 29,000 taxpayers. From there, what allows the DTE to come out. That is why, indeed, there are many taxpayers who say that they have been welcomed and that they are making the extraordinary tax declaration, who are declaring that they have such activities abroad. Moreover, who has been doing this since 2011 is a server, who is getting all those assets and rents to come out, is supporting the Tax Agency... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u133	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON MARC LAMUÀ ESTAÑOL, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WILL YOU INFORM THIS CAMERA OF THE RESULT OF THE RESEARCH TO BE OPENED TO THE VIEW OF THE 600 RESIDENT CONTRIBUTORS IN SPAIN IN THE #PARADISEPAPERS? [[File number 180/00445]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u134	He also asked the Minister of Finance of Mr Marc Lamuà Estañol of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u135	Minister, will you inform this House of the results of the investigation into the roles of the tax havens and the Spanish that appear in them?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u136	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Of course I would, I'd miss more! The limit lies in the confidentiality established by the General Tax Act. What I would ask the Socialist Group, which in the past had the opportunity to speak to me personally, is that they set the confidentiality limits of that General Tax Law, but do so. Do it, take it forward and, from there, let's talk about where those boundaries are. I'm going to tell you one thing, I can't understand that politicians in Spain have everything declared annually, our income, our heritage, our provenance, and that others don't have it, and when they go to the general shareholders' meeting they obviously have to announce what they're getting back, for example. How come they won't get payback? That's corporate government. All this is changing in a society like ours and will have the full support and momentum of the Government to improve transparency, to complement it in the fight against fraud and in the fight against tax havens. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Lamuà.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u139	Mr. Montoro, you always tell us yes, but in the end it's usually not. It gives few explanations, still owes them to the Panama papers, to the Castellana papers... We understand that it gives him laziness, because we know that his thing is more amnesties for friends than not in-depth investigations. Moreover, with the names that go beyond, it seems normal for us to give you deep laziness, because, of course, to come to tell you that Mr Correa appears on the papers shortly before he began to finance campaigns for the People's Party or that eminent Gürtelians appear on it like Pablo Crespo or Guillermo Ortega has to give laziness because we will start by asking him about the Paradise papers, about the papers of Bárcenas until he ends up asking him about that suspiciously indescribable M. Rajoy who appears in them, and you already have trouble for a while. In this case, at least, if we count a good investigation, we would understand things that happen, for example, in the City Hall of Barcelona, where names appear in these papers such as those that came here to the friends of the purple caste, Mr. Juan Bautista Granell, who said when he presented himself to the secretary general something like changing society to a more just and supportive model, while he had offshore and appeared on the lists of great defrauders. Such friendships could help to understand that here the true and authentic left does not have many problems to agree the governability of Barcelona with those of 3% and those of the Paradise papers, because, of course, what unites the lists of defrauders that will not separate politics or ideology. [[Laughter]] I understand that you are lazy to bring in these investigations, perhaps also because of the shame of the acquaintances you will find on the list when you bring it. But listen, add to the fashion of the city condal; if Ada ambition Colau can agree with Xavier offshore Trias, try it. It has here those of Paul Churches who lose the disgust to bargain with the corrupt right. Maybe you'll find a few votes for your next budgets. Minister, cheer up. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u140	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u141	Thank you, Madam President. We have already heard the Socialist Party's account; barbecues, merinas, pears, apples, all together. I haven't heard anything Frankly, I haven't heard who he is, who he isn't... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u142	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u143	But, well, it's a story, Your Honor, with complete freedom. What I told you in my first reply is that if the Socialist Party intends to amend section 95 of the General Tax Act to bring it to this House and to establish the new limits for the dissemination of investigations and tax data, that is what I have told you. What a mix of names you've made, that have nothing to do with each other, nothing to do with. [[Rumors.-Mr. Lamuà Estañol utters words that are not perceived]] I don't know, police reports, really clever investigations... Really, if you do not update your speech, we will continue like this. We've been talking about the same thing for seven years. I invite you to modernise and make a much more constructive speech because the fight against tax fraud deserves it. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u144	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. IONE BELARRA URTEAGA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF ENERGY, TOURISM AND DIGITAL AGENDA: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO DO TO AVOID FIVE MILLIONS OF PERSONS IN OUR COUNTRY THAT CANNOT PAY THE FACTURES FOR ME OR CALCULATE THEIR HOUSES? [[File number 180/00438]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u145	Questions to the Minister for Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda. Question by Mrs Ione Belarra Urteaga, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u146	Thank you, President. Minister, what will your Government do to prevent five million people in our country from remaining unable to pay bills at the end of the month or without heating their homes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u147	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u148	Your Honor, I'll make you a recommendation. When I was in opposition and I was in a place like yours I read the BOE. In the BOE of December 23, 2016, there is the Royal Decree-Law of the Social Bonus, which was supported by the vast majority of this House, and its royal decree of development, 897/2007, of October 6, after a long process, as you know. That is where very important things are done in the area of State competence. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u149	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u150	A social bonus that for the first time has income levels as a criterion for the distribution of that social bonus. The figure of the consumer with severe vulnerability is created, with 40% instead of 25% discount; moreover, for the first time, it supports the autonomous communities in their social policy - because it is the autonomous communities that are competent in social policy - for those consumers who are very vulnerable, severely vulnerable, at risk of exclusion, who define the autonomous communities themselves, in which the energy system contributes 50% of the bill because until now 100% was in charge of the autonomous communities. If you think little of this which has been done not only by the government but with a very broad consensus in this House - not yours, but the rest of the parliamentary groups - I think you should read a little more the BOE and less some other things. [[Rumors]] Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u151	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, please hold your seats, I beg you to remain silent. Some of your ladies and gentlemen have been standing for more than twenty minutes in the Chamber. They have other places to meet. Thank you very much. Mrs. Belarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u152	Thank you. Do not worry, Mr Nadal, I read the BOE carefully, what happens is that in recent months there has been a lot of talk about Catalonia and it seems that nothing else is happening, but things continue to happen in our country, and millions of people are still paying for the consequences of six years of anti-social policies by the governments of the People's Party. You yourself have acknowledged that this year the Spanish and Spanish will pay 100 euros more for the bill of light. It took them ten months to pass that royal decree of which both boasted, which they announced in January, after Rosa, the old woman of Reus, died when she had to light herself with candles because Natural Gas had cut her light. I think in these months you think there has been no more electrical poverty because it wasn't winter, because it was summer, and it's not true. There is another Rosa, a lady who has 68% recognized disability and who lives permanently hooked to an oxygen machine. Do you know what you had to do this summer? He had to suck ice cubes to cool off because he couldn't afford the electricity that was costing the air conditioning. That is happening in our country, there are many more Roses in our country, many more Roses that you are turning your back on, and not only are you turning your back on them, but you have declared yourself completely incompetent to control the electrical sector and why? Because many things could be done, you could do for example an audit, you could recover public management of electricity, you could ensure that pricing, that you know well that it is an obsolete system, that it has an oligopolistic operation and that it is unfair, that it could be regulated, we could put on the table a tax on electricity to prevent those fallen profits from the sky that reach nuclear and hydroelectric power stations from being put on the table. The problem is that as long as you continue to have golden retreats like the one Mr Aznar has, like the one Mr Pizarro has, like the one Mr Martín Villa has in electrics, you will do nothing to regulate the electricity sector. So I ask you to abandon that pandereta patriotism, that patriotism of shame because truly love our country and love its people is to make the last death for energy poverty in our country Rosa's, is to make no one spend this winter in our country cold. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u153	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u154	Mrs. Belarus, don't demagogy. When the various parliamentary groups submitted their proposals for the social bonus, the only one who did not speak of disability was his. Ask Mr Vendrell, because the role he sent me in February did not speak of disability; the others did. And now it comes to me with a disability problem. That's demagoguery, it's simply taking advantage of cases, which we all regret, to make politics, and that's not a way to make politics - forgive me for telling you that - decent. [[Applauds]] Politics is made thinking of the general interest and if there is a government that has very clear that the most important thing in the energy system is the price it is us, and not the proposals that you make, because by closing the coal plants, as you propose, at the winter tips there is 15% more price, and you give that to you, because that is paid by all consumers, with vulnerability or without it. By closing the nuclear as you want, the price goes up by 25%, and everyone knows that, but it doesn't matter to you, what you want is to make politics, on the one hand, very green and, on the other, to accuse the government of raising the price. For we will always make a policy for the consumer, industrial or domestic. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] - OF THE DEVELOPED JESUS POSITION QUINTANA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ENERGY, TOURISM AND DIGITAL AGENDA: WHAT MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT IMPULATING TO DEVELOP THE DEVELOPMENT OF RECORDING INFRASTRUCTURES NEEDED FOR ALTERNATIVE AND EFFECTIVE MOBILITY? [[File number 180/00447]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u155	He also asked the Minister for Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda of Mr Jesús Postigo Quintana of the People's Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u156	Thank you, President. Good morning, Minister. Climate change is one of the greatest challenges we face, which requires measures to stabilize the surface temperature of the planet and has other consequences. In this regard, the European Union proposed a package of climate change and energy measures with new and ambitious targets for 2020. The European Union's commitments to achieve this were, inter alia, to reduce gas emissions, to save energy consumption and to promote the use of renewable energy. I would like, Mr Minister, to focus basically on the three objectives I have set for you. In recent years, the Government of Spain has been promoting, with various measures, actions and plans such as the PIMA Plan, continuity of the Movele Plan, the Renove Plan and the Movea Plan, a more sustainable transport and mobility while strengthening support for the installation of new electrical charging infrastructures. In Spain, transport is very important in the context of sustainable development, accounting for 30% of the final consumption of energy. The ongoing growth in this sector makes the challenge of sustainable transport a strategic and fundamental priority for the People's Party, and therefore the approval of the Movalt Plan, which will come into force in the coming days, will continue the plans that the Government has been pushing forward. The objective of this Movalt Plan is to increase the fleet of alternative energy vehicles and thereby contribute to the reduction of emissions of CO2 and other polluting gases. We will thus make progress towards achieving the objectives of climate change, increasing savings and diversifying the energy sources of transport, thereby reducing oil dependence on our country, and promoting the growth of renewable energies. Minister, could you tell us what steps the Government is taking to further promote the development of the necessary recharge infrastructure and cargo managers for alternative and efficient mobility? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u157	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u158	Thank you, Your Honor. As you have said, we are in the midst of an energy transition that affects not only electricity generation systems, but also how are the fuels that are going to use mainly transport - transport is 60% of our country's electricity consumption - and that is why it is very important that we move towards that energy transition. It is called transition because we have to support the technical advances and technological innovations that allow us to move towards a fleet of vehicles that are less and less CO2 emitters that are in turn competitive and we also have to encourage our country's industry. Spain is the second largest vehicle manufacturer in Europe and the tenth largest in the world and, of course, this Spanish industry must be at the forefront of technological innovations with the change and energy transition we are talking about. That is why the Government has approved the Movalt plan, which has different elements of action. The first is to maintain and extend the aid that has been given by the Ministry of Industry, in this case it would be from the Ministry of Energy, towards the alternative fuel vehicle, not only the electric vehicle, but also the gas vehicle and other alternative vehicles because they are very interesting and also very interesting designs are being developed in our country and that it is advisable to continue to help. Secondly, a much more ambitious plan than hitherto for charging infrastructure, charging posts. So far we have dedicated approximately half a million euros and now we will apply 15 million euros, which means thirty times more than we have been doing so far, and not only to support their deployment in public areas, but also in private areas such as hotels, private car parks or shopping centers. As you have rightly said, in addition to that, we are going to fully liberalise the charge manager regulations for charging posts, for charging infrastructure. This is a great novelty and a great act of confidence in all Spanish consumers because these posts have to be dedicated exclusively to recharging vehicles, but the Government is going to liberalize it completely so that electricity can be accessed or sold under any circumstances without having to be a cargo manager and without having to be an electric marketer. Finally, as a great novelty, this is interesting, yesterday I was in Barcelona at the Fair of Smart Cities and with one of the major manufacturers of Spanish vehicles that are on the subject of intelligent mobility, as great novelty and also sustainable, R+D+i initiatives. It is 15 million euros for our manufacturers and engineers to make progress in a vast world that is developing and that is going to have a great future in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u159	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u160	We shall now proceed to address the appeals addressed to the Government. Firstly, the urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo, into the actions taken by the Government to study alternatives aimed at the recovery of the Las Palmas de Gran Canaria naval base for citizen use. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u161	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and everyone. Good morning, Minister. The importance of recovering the naval base for the city of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria is related to some relevant issues. Firstly, this situation is the result of forced expropriation in 1940, which is clearly irregular and maintained over time, as I will explain later. Secondly, it is a unique and strategic space right in the centre of the city of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, one of its centers and therefore a very important mole for the development of the coastal front of that city, which is its future and, consequently, a matter of general interest to citizens. With the few opportunities we have to formulate an inquiry, this Member had to ask himself: What do we do about it? We are fortunate that the Canary Islands' Statute of Autonomy and the REF will finally be debated in the House, which is why we were able to focus on this issue. The truth is that we have serious concerns about your action, Minister, because you have recently gone in the opposite direction to the agreements that have been reached in the Defence Committees of Congress and the Senate on this issue. We are afraid that here the same historical position of the successive Spanish governments is maintained, something which was explained very well by a prominent leader of the People's Party in the Canary Islands in 2015, who said textually: This is a matter that comes out from time to time, that spends a few years and comes out again. In ancient Castilian, to understand us: They will be tired until the next outbreak. That's what you come to say with this. That is why we are obliged to formulate this inquiry, to insist once again. I know that there are ladies and gentlemen here who have been present in this Member's ongoing battle over this matter and will be able to say that I am tired, but it is very important for me to explain it at the plenary session of the House and for you to listen to me. I have to tell you a lot of things. One is that we have a very serious concern with what we understand to be a delaying strategy of his numerous interventions that we have heard from him after the agreements of March 2016 in this Congress. There have been more subsequent agreements, but in the end it gives the impression that there is no interest in developing the agreements reached in the Defence Commissions. Secondly, I would like to express to you our firm commitment to prevent this matter from falling once again into oblivion. This is a strategic issue for the city of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, for Gran Canaria and also for the Canary Islands, so I tell you that we declare ourselves in a permanent outbreak. We will continue to insist on this matter because we believe that all kinds of reasons are present. Throughout history there have been numerous demonstrations in relation to this and the other military spaces in the Canary Islands, of which I have no chance to speak now, which have been permanently neglected. As far as the question of the Las Palmas de Gran Canaria naval base is concerned, three very clear statements have been made over time. The expropriation that took place in 1940 by the Minister of the Government of Franco was transitory on the occasion of the Second World War, which, as we all know, ended in 1945. In addition, it was carried out irregularly, as witnessed by numerous subsequent studies on the subject, and the Harbour Works Board, which was expropriated in its time, never received anything in return. This is the story. So what do we have now? We now have 15 000 square meters - not 6 million square meters but 15 000 square meters - occupied in an area that is strategic for the development of the city. The most recent initiative - we could be talking about the historical ones for a long time - was that which this Member humbly raised in a non-law proposal at a session of the Defence Commission, in March 2016. We were pleased to see how the Commission unanimously approved, with a compromise amendment by the Socialist Group, the creation of a five-party working group, from the Ministry of Defence to the City of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, through the Port Authority of Las Palmas, with very concrete tasks to address this matter seriously. That is what was unanimously adopted, and it is therefore necessary for me to acknowledge here the efforts and support of all the groups, which have subsequently been expressed on numerous occasions. Two weeks after that non-legislative proposal I put an oral question to you in plenary, which you will remember perfectly, and I did so because we detected a set of actions that were just in the opposite direction to the agreements. His answer to that oral question, which I thanked him, is also true that he confirmed to us the ministry's little enthusiasm to address this issue, which is not only his thing; it is historical, but so it is. And a week later the City Council of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, again in plenary, made an institutional declaration on the need to recover this space, on the need to support the agreement of the Commission of Defense, the support of the Cabildo de Gran Canaria, etc. New Canarias made a motion in the Senate on the same matter in April 2017, also unanimously adopted. There we accepted a transaction in which they said that they would form this working group before 31 December 2017. I already know it's November 2017, but I also know that the way in which the matter is going obliges us to use this inquiry - that is when we will have the next one! - to insist on this issue. In the meantime agreement and such unanimity have occurred some movements that we have to remember here that we have been extraordinarily concerned, Minister, because they are in the opposite direction of the sense of non-law propositions, of institutional declarations in the city hall, etc. They're headed the other way. I highlight two important facts. One, works are bid on that naval base for 1.8 million euros in 2017 for residences of officers and non-commissioned officers in that space. We have nothing against decent residences for officers and non-commissioned officers - I want it to be clear to you - but you will agree with me that when we are talking about this whatever one of the events is like to worry. Two, on your visit to Las Palmas de Gran Canaria on 20 July 2017 you stated the following: The naval base is transcendental to the security of the state. As you said - we were not born yesterday - you were referring to this base; not to a base in the Canary Islands for the defence of the Canary Islands but to this base. This is the sense you tried to move and we understand your intention, but we disagree. He also said that it is one of the four most important bases of the Spanish Navy. This base. Therefore, we are going to make a lit defense of the need for that naval base that we are talking about. Adding to all this, you will understand that New Canarias has an obligation to raise this matter again and we also have an interest in doing so in plenary, because not once on all the occasions when you have had the opportunity to make statements you mentioned the agreement we had reached. If you had announced that a working group would be set up, it would have seemed that they were recognizing things. These statements express that there is no clear will to end this - let me tell you - offensive situation that has endured the city of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Gran Canaria and the Canary Islands for seventy-seven years. A confusing language of the following tenor is used: it is that Canarias has great strategic importance; strategic, you said and I added, geostrategic. You don't have to explain that to a canary nationalist. Of course the situation in the Canary Islands is strategic! What we do not know is whether that implies mutatis mutandis that what is strategic is also that the naval base is where it is. That's another matter. They link the defense of the Canary Islands with the existence of the current base, as if there was no other option. It seems the only option is to maintain a base in the center of the city. This is an issue you will understand that we cannot agree with. What is of no strategic importance to the Canary Islands is a military base in the centre of a city of 400 000 inhabitants. There are all the experiences I want in the cities of the Spanish state as a whole that have tried to resolve this synergy that is not at all interesting. Finally, there's a little whip we've been listening to historically and not just from you: And who pays for this? That's the million-dollar question. And another: Seek the space you. In other words, should the City of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, the lobby or the Government of the Canary Islands define the operational and strategic needs of the Navy? Will we also decide what type of boat the defense of the Canary Islands needs? This is unreasonable. What do you mean we're looking for him? This is unreasonable. I guess in the Ministry of Defense there's plenty of experts in this. As I was saying, the other question is: And who pays for this? Won't the citizens of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria or their town hall or the lobby or the government of the Canary Islands want to pay for it? We are saying that it was an irregular expropriation since 1940 - seventy-seven years later we are still talking about this - that it occurred because of a war that ended in 1945, that neither the city of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria nor its port have had a single benefit in relation to that decision and, moreover, do we have to pay it again? I don't know if I'm able to move the concern that this is causing us. There is a huge consensus in Canarian society, in Gran Canaria and in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, about the need to talk about military spaces, whose location belongs to other times and which is not the minister's responsibility, we know that. It is necessary to discuss, now and in particular, the question of the naval base. Anyone who sees on a location map where that base is located in this city will understand that a military space is not defendable in the place where it is located, and less defendable is that it continues to insist that we go looking for the bitches in the city hall. By the way, I think you've calculated this at EUR 400 million. 15 000 meters more expensive! We ask you to work towards the agreements that have been adopted. It is time to address this matter seriously. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u162	Thank you very much. Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u163	Thank you very much, President. Mr Quevedo, you ask me this question, whose approach and requirement have been open for many years since 1974, when the first request for this was made, which is known as the return to the citizen's use of the Las Palmas naval base. I would like to comment, Your Honor, as you ask me, on the actions the ministry is carrying out to look for alternatives, which I understand are location alternatives, because for me the alternative is not to disappear the naval base of Gran Canaria but to look for location alternatives. I understand that, in this respect, your honor and I agree. Therefore, we are talking about alternatives to location, not alternatives to being or not being, because there is something I want to say to you, and your honor has referred to this at the beginning of your speech, and I believe that the presence of a naval base in Gran Canaria is absolutely indispensable for the needs of national defence, the defence of the European Union and, when I speak of national defence, I am obviously also talking about the defence of the Canary Islands. It is true that there are parliamentary agreements and resolutions adopted unanimously, as your honor has said, in Congress and in the Senate, but they also say those resolutions that all the technical requirements required and necessary for the Navy to have a naval base must be met and that, at the same time, it is necessary to determine how the costs of the relocation of the location will be met. All of this is what we have approved so far and I understand that in these respects we agree with you and me. Which is of national interest, obviously it is; which is one of the four most important and transcendental bases of the Spanish Navy and which one of them necessarily has to be located in Gran Canaria for strategic reasons. This is the case and, as your honor will understand, it is not a question of this minister, it is an issue studied by those who have an obligation to know strategy and from the operational point of view of the terms of national defence, which in this case are those of the Navy. I suppose we will also agree, because that is the reality, that in this arsenal very advanced technological units are based that require very specialized support and maintenance, which, I believe, results in an important boost and revitalization of the local industry of the military and naval sector. On the other hand, I also believe, Your Honor, that where the naval base is located today, regardless of whether we are talking about this issue and whether we have to set up a working commission to see where there is another location, there is an active and continuous presence of these units, of their endowments, as military, of course, but also as neighbours, as customers, as consumers, as propagandists of the goodness of life in the city of Las Palmas and in Gran Canaria, which has had its importance throughout all these years. Therefore, just by closing the ellipses, I must say that the location of a naval base in Gran Canaria is absolutely essential for the needs of national defence and, in this regard, being the government's first obligation to give security and defend its citizens, I do believe that it is an unnegotiable issue. What have we done so far? The first thing we have to do - your honor has asked who had to look for the location - is actually to look for the location, and in that we are still not to create a working commission that will deal with the transfer when we don't even know what location we can have. As your honor knows, the alternative location has to be viable, it has to have operational, strategic and logistical possibilities on the islands and, therefore, it is not so easy to find a solution quickly. That is why, since 1974, we have been trying to find a solution. Obviously, the needs of the Navy are what they are, the needs of the naval bases today are more ambitious, they are different for various reasons, such as the evolution of legislation not only in the military but also in the civil sphere, as well as from an environmental and occupational safety point of view. Today, if a new naval base were to be built, it would require even more space than the current one: it would require between 1500 and 2600 meters of docking line, a drop of at least 12 meters; it would have to have the weather, hydrographic and orographic conditions that would guarantee the shelter of the units, which today they do have and that they would need to continue to have, an adequate communications network and also find themselves close to important points of communication and transport, such as airports, industrial complexes, refineries, shipyards, ships and a social and service fabric. That would be indispensable. Today it is expected, but we would have to look for a location that would also count on it because it is needed by a naval base. I am not going to refer to any more requirements that a modern naval base needs, but I do have to tell your honor that the authorization of an expenditure on the naval base known as the Las Palmas Arsenal has been due to the living conditions, which were even dangerous, for officers and above all for non-commissioned officers who were living there and, as the safety of people is the first thing, so this work has to be committed, regardless of whether the process of a possible transfer is not abandoned, but we must look for the location. When looking for the location, his lordship also knows that three alternatives have been worked out: one is the Red Mountain in Tenerife; the other in La Isleta and the third in Gando, in Gran Canaria. That of the Red Mountain, on the coast of South Tenerife, was ruled out by the proximity of the civil airport and the dissonance with the infrastructure that the Navy already has on the islands, because it is, because of the geographical location of Gran Canaria, strategically much more important than the base is in Gran Canaria. As for the other two locations, that of La Isleta, in Gran Canaria, is an area of high ecological value and a protected natural space. It was the option proposed by the so-called Citizen Commission for the recovery of the naval base. However, the dimensions were insufficient, it had weather complications, it had a high depth that made the construction of the dams could be much more expensive than could be expected in an estimate of an initial budget and, moreover, despite being proposed the location of La Isleta by the Citizen Commission for the recovery of the naval base, it is true that it also had a lot of social response and, therefore, if we moved from a place that says his lordship has social response to another that also has social response, we would not be solving anything. The last option was Gando, which in principle seemed the best, as it allowed for joint interoperability and the creation of a broad military complex. It was also ruled out by meteorological inconveniences and security as it was difficult to avoid interference with the civilian facilities in Arinaga. What are we doing? Keep looking for locations, Your Honor. It is our duty and our responsibility, and obviously the expertise is in the Ministry of Defence and in the Navy, but it is not easy for the needs of the Navy and the needs of a naval base. It is true that we have continued to work on technical needs, it is true that this minister has visited the arsenal. I have seen the operation, I have spoken to the staff and the works that had to be carried out to ensure the safety of those who were there have been monitored afterwards. And I must say, Your Honor, that I have also ratified the conviction that the naval base is fundamental to the security of Spain and also to the security of part of Spain, of the Canary Islands. It is true that it does not have an easy arrangement but it is also true - I understand that - that we have the responsibility from the Ministry of Defence to create a working commission when we know that it is possible another location, and not to create false expectations. Because the first point of the parliamentary resolutions that have been agreed is aimed at finding another location, and we do not agree on that. And it is not that we do not agree because from the point of view of the Navy it is very demanding in the conditions, but because there are also discussions about the location by political representations of other places of the island, in this case not of the City of Las Palmas, but of other municipalities. Therefore, it is not an easy issue but, Your Honor, the commitment of this ministry and of course the will of its head - which I have the honour of being myself - is to implement parliamentary agreements, but parliamentary agreements must also apply to reality, and the reality is that, today, there is no better location. Obviously, your honor will believe that being in the situation you are in today, that is to say being in the center of the city, is not the best location for a naval base, but I also have to tell you that with this problem you have been dealing with for many years and so far no solution has been found. That the naval base is strategic for national defense? It is, Your Honor, of which we have no doubt. That there is a will to undertake a transfer, if possible? Also. That the resolution is adopted unanimously in terms of finding another location and solving the financial problem so that it does not go to the expense of the State's General Budgets? It is also in the resolution that was adopted unanimously. We must give all these issues an answer so as not to create more frustration with this situation. Thank you very much, Your Honor; thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u165	Thank you again, Madam President. I have listened to you carefully, Minister. I think we have a fundamental problem, and it's that we're not talking about exactly the same thing, it gives me the feeling. You tell me that the defense of the Canary Islands is vital for Spain and the Canary Islands. You have our absolute support, no doubt. He says there needs to be a naval base in the Canary Islands. Nor is there any doubt, we are completely in agreement with all this. He says he's been looking for a solution since 1974. It is not that there has been much activism in this matter, because it will agree with us that from 1974 to 2017 there will be no missed opportunities. I believe that the truth is that the successive governments of Spain have had no interest in resolving this matter. This is the truth. They have been comfortable with the naval base being there, that is obvious, and there have been no serious movements to act on this matter, as anyone who has followed this matter during these years can testify. It is true that, as I was trying to explain to you throughout my previous speech, we continue to listen to answers that sound very much to the answers given since 1974: you solve it and you pay it to us. I don't know what you're thinking, I'm telling you honestly. Are you proposing a popular subscription? It's just that this isn't reasonable. The budget of a city council? Man, I'm saying the Ministry of Defense might have some budget for strategic defence facilities in the Spanish state. What happens is that in order for all of this to be properly discussed, we need to comply with what we have agreed. I'm listening to her and I don't hear her mention - that's why I think it's appropriate to do this interpellation - what really was the agreement we reached. The agreement that was reached and that I will again raise in the motion, as you may suppose, is to create a working group on the naval base of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, composed of the Ministry of Defense, Government of the Canary Islands, Cabildo Insular de Gran Canaria, City Council of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria and port authority - what used to be the junta of works of the port -. For what? To study possible alternatives. He tells me he's been looking for alternatives for a long time. I don't know, I don't know, and I'm paying attention to what's going on in the Canary Islands, I'm really telling you. You have also had a department dedicated to this, but you have not moved to Canarian society, I can assure you. It has not been moved and it is also that the agreement is not that it is resolved by tomorrow; the agreement is that possible alternatives are sought because so many years have passed, so many opportunities have been lost to do the things that are now going to be more difficult. We do agree with that, but you will agree with us that it is absolutely essential that we argue that this naval base cannot be in the centre of a city of 400 000 inhabitants. It seems to us that no great effort should be made to make this clear. In addition, we say that the cost of conditioning a new site must be estimated and the period of award of the works and also of execution evaluated; the possible ways of assigning the present space should be defined; what compensation is available. This is what we have agreed and for this we must convene a working group and this is what we believe you do not do and have no interest in doing. I have listened carefully and he tells me that we have to meet when we already have the space and the solution. Man, that's why we don't propose no law. Indeed, I believe that this matter must be taken with the corresponding seriousness and a working group of five like the one that is being raised, in addition to being quite obvious - if anyone else comes up with something else, I invade it - is elementary to discuss all these issues that we already know are not easy. I'm going to tell you one thing, it's not easy because it's complicated and now it's harder, which doesn't mean it's impossible. Or do you think there haven't been any opportunities to move the naval base? I can assure you. There are spaces like the Cinderella Roque. I don't know how to tell him. Indeed, I believe that seventy-seven years later we deserve to convene the working group with the conviction to work and listen to everyone and truly with an open position to find a solution. I have a collection of questions answered in writing and they all answer the same thing: Tell us where and let us know that it cannot cost us a euro. If that's the attitude, the truth is that I'm very afraid that what we're doing is cheating on ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u166	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u167	Thank you, Madam President. The honourable Member, indeed, seventy-seven years have passed and that is why, of course, it is not an easy situation. I would like to make two comments on this issue, which I believe are important, in order to answer your question. First of all, it is important where and who pays the amount. Of course it is important; it is very important where, because the location is necessary, and it is very important how much, because when the last estimate was made ten years ago it was established how much the transfer would cost and we were already around more than 400 million euros. Ten years ago; today we would be around much more. The first estimate was made even longer ago, in 1974, and it was already seen that it involved a lot of money, which seemed difficult to cover and adopt directly by the Ministry of Defence. But these are issues that have been going on throughout history. Surely opportunities have been lost - I agree with that - and the further we have gone, the less space is available, because, obviously, the city of Las Palmas has grown and urban development on the island of Gran Canaria has also grown. There's another matter that's more important to me and that's what I wanted to nuance. If we could find another location - and then I will refer to the working group -, the disaffection that would be made of military use would not immediately impact on the City Hall of Las Palmas, because - you have said it in your intervention and you have said it very well - it is port territory. It is not that the City Council of Las Palmas has to pay for keeping these lands, because it is - I repeat - of the port; therefore, it was not a territory of the city, it was a territory of the port. Ports of the State and the port, obviously, is not owned by the City of Las Palmas and that is something that also has to be made clear in the whole negotiation and in everything we talk about. Because when it comes to returning to citizen use, I don't know why port use is going to be more citizen than military use, that must also be said. And that's something we have to make clear before. [[Applauds]] Secondly, we cannot talk about returning to the citizens' use - which is how the question is raised and how the motions which, from my point of view, perhaps was not the best wording, although it is unanimously adopted - when the use made at that naval base is in exercise of the role of the military in providing a service to the Spaniards, and is to guarantee their right to defence. That this is not a citizen's use when it is being used to defend the right of citizens to be defended by their State, I find it very questionable. Because terminology here is also very important, and this is because citizen use does not have to do with an activity that is directly related to guaranteeing a right that we citizens have, it seems to me very questionable, because the first right that citizens have is to defend our State and the first obligation of a government is to give security and defend its citizens. But with all that, that I understand that it is a matter of concepts, and taking into account - and this is important - that the ground corresponds to the junta of works of the port - that was then called the entity - I tell you that before the end of this month, Your Honor, we will constitute that working group and I undertake to do so. I did not want to create any more frustrations with this issue, and creating a working group gives rise to the understanding that we already have everything sorted out and that at least we have an idea of location. Today an idea of location we don't have - because we don't have it - and I didn't want to create any more frustrated expectations. But if your honor so understands, I pledge to do so before the end of this November that we are living. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u168	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the European Parliament may, in common, on the ratification of the revised European Social Charter, as well as the Protocol on Collective Complaints of 1995. [[File number 172/000081]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u169	We continue with the urgent interpellation of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the ratification of the revised European Social Charter, as well as the collective complaints protocol of 1995. For your defence, Mr Monereo Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u170	I rise to this rostrum with a certain emotion, for two reasons: one, for the subject matter and the other, for the journey that has taken this initiative on which we make the inquiry. The issue is very important, it is an old demand of the class trade union movement in Spain, of the Workers' Committees and of UGT - I am glad that some trade unionists are here at the moment - and I think it has a certain interest because, as a previous president of the European Committee of Social Rights said, today the Charter of Social Rights is surely the last obstacle - or the first offensive - to claim social rights as fundamental rights. [[The Lord]] The other is the course of this initiative. This initiative is long-standing, coming from 15-M. A group of students from the Cordoba Law School, faced with the social catastrophe of evictions and trying to stop them, were seeking not the weight of the law, but a just law that would stop evictions, which were and continue to be a huge social catastrophe. From that perspective, these young people wanted to find in the revised Charter of Social Rights an instrument that would block evictions and make it feasible to defend fundamental human rights and, within them, socio-economic and social rights. That is where this initiative comes from. This initiative was discussed in the faculty, was discussed in assemblies of the 15-M, was picked up by the Andalusian Ombudsman and has been moving and continues to move around the 15-M. This is very important, because, what was it? There's a lot of talk about law here. The President of the Government tells us about the law and the law, but the problem is whether we are dealing with a fair law; that is the problem. There is a crisis between legality and legitimacy. How is this crisis resolved when, on the one hand, the causers of it not only come out free, but, on the other hand, their trophies are financed? What market freedom are we talking about? On the other hand, normal and ordinary people, who would like to pay, of course, their flats and their rents, are thrown into the streets without a future and living in conditions of exclusion that irreparably lead to poverty. That's what there was and what's in the background. Many times there is bad talk of 15-M, but I want to say that 15-M has had three very important virtues for Spain: first, because it is the participation of young people, of a generation we thought was in consumerism, in apolitical, and they showed us that they were there willing to change the country and to commit themselves. But there was another very important thing: those young people vaccinated us against fascism, those young people moved in the field of democracy, freedoms and, from that field, challenged politicians and politics. When they said: they do not represent us, it is not that they did not believe in representative democracy, what they were saying is that those politicians who accepted the European Commission's diktat, those politicians who blackmailed the Spanish Government and those politicians who, in the end, accepted those blackmails, no longer represented them. Therefore, when we discuss in depth the 15-M and its consequences, which are still there, that it has not died, that it is still as an expectation and as a social imaginary, it is very important to start from the fact that in this imaginary it was a defense of the great consensus of this country, also for young people, which is social constitutionalism; the intransigent defense of social rights as fundamental rights. The European Social Charter is an important, very important element. You know that the revised European Social Charter has been endorsed by twenty-three countries; there is another part coming from the previous stage, which is the Protocol on Collective Complaints, which has already been endorsed by sixteen countries; that is, it is a very consolidated element in defence of this social constitutionalism, which seems to us to be the great consensus of our society. And what's going on? That the Spanish Government signed it in the year two thousand peaks, but has not ratified it; it has not ratified it. Therefore, what we are asking for now is very simple, to be ratified. For what? To make it effective and part of Spanish law. For what? So that it can serve as an instrument in the hands of civil society, trade unions and social actors to, from the revised European Social Charter, continue to defend the intransigent and tenacious struggle for fundamental social rights, which is what they represent. I'm done. A lot has been said here, a lot, about the law. Our present democracy is based on an old history, which is the break with the law. What the Greeks taught us was that to build a society of free men and women we had to fight the law. So, what was the law? The heteronoma imposition of certain principles. But suddenly the Greek genius, the democracy of the ancients, told us one very important thing, that is that we want to have autonomy, we want to have self-government, and the law we gave ourselves. When it comes to laws, to self-government, it's called the Constitution. So much so that liberalism, during the entire 19th century, opposed democracy, precisely by saying that the democracy of the moderns was against the democracy of the ancients, who were based on this government. And that is where the ever-existing and persistent contradiction between liberalism and democracy appears. It is precisely because democracy bases its fundamental concepts on positive freedoms. Therefore, when we claim social rights, when we claim equality and social freedoms, what we are claiming is, nothing more and nothing less, than self-government. And you can tell me: yes, we end the social state, we liquidate the social state, we diminish it; we go to a minimum state, where strong powers are imposed. But that has a problem; if you in this society end social rights and the social state, the liberal state does not come, no; what comes are formulas of authoritarianism and increasingly fascism. When you see Europe turning around what is happening in Hungary, what is happening in the Czech Republic, what is happening in Poland, what is happening in Austria, what is happening in the Netherlands, you will have to realise that the only legitimacy of a democratic system today in Europe is that which makes possible the old individual and liberal freedoms and the new socialist freedoms, which have given meaning to our own society. From there, I want to tell you that the other side of the issue is very simple, it is nothing more and nothing less than the domination of what Luigi Ferrajoli calls the wild powers. If anything proves to us what is happening in Spain in the last seven years, it is that the wild powers are being imposed. And what are the wild powers? Those who don't regulate the law. Moreover, the great pity, the great disappointment is that the unregulated wild powers are the same powers that claim to regulate our lives. The problem is not that we do not control the wild power, the problem is that the wild powers are controlling us by limiting our freedoms and leaving us without a future. I believe in this country, I believe in its people and I know that what happened the 15-M is going to remain alive as an expectation of a generation that does not want to live worse than their parents and that it is going to free us all. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u171	Thank you very much, Mr Monereo. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Minister for Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, believe me, I am grateful for the tone of your speech and also for the opportunity this morning to discuss from a European perspective what is happening in Spain and the recent history of our country. He is well aware that the aim of this government, which is the great objective of Spanish society - hence, CIS after CIS as a major concern - is that economic growth is intensively translated into the creation of opportunities. Therefore, our road map passes because in Spain there is more and better employment every day, because, as you said, the great instrument of social policy, the great tool is undoubtedly employment. Spain is writing this recovery in Europe also with more Europe. You have told me about young people, and that is a great example of what the Spanish have done as a society. Since a constructive dialogue, starting in 2013, we have been able to reach agreement between the social partners, the autonomous communities and more than a hundred civil society entities on a set of measures for the guidance, training and inclusion of young people in the labour market. I am talking to you about 2013, when our country suffered one of the highest unemployment rates among young people throughout the European Union. That constructive dialogue, thinking of those who are today our present, who are young people, who have to be our future as well, was successful in our country, first of all, in what we call the strategy of entrepreneurship and youth employment, which were a set of 100 measures for young people's opportunities. But the Government of Spain did not stay there, and it was President Rajoy, with the Ministry of Employment, who gave the battle in Europe because, as Europeans, we had to offer young people opportunities to, among other things, feel fully integrated and Europeanist, through those opportunities that looked forward to at the heart of the economic crisis. It was made possible, for example, to establish for the first time an initiative for youth employment, which was the European Youth Guarantee, to allocate resources from the European budget to strengthen young people's opportunities. Thanks to this European initiative, there are over nine hundred thousand registered young people in our country who are receiving opportunities for guidance, training and, of course, employment. This is making it possible for youth employment growth today to be five times higher than the overall employment rate and for the last years of the recovery to have lowered the unemployment rate in our country by 20 points. We are well aware that there are opportunities left for young people and the rest of Spanish society, but it is true that we do social policy from employment and we do social policy from Europe. This very week - on Thursday - in the city of Gothenburg the social summit will be solemnly proclaimed and Spain will be committed to the highest level, with the signature of the President of the Government, to renew and support the implementation of the European pillar of social rights, because from Spain we want a more social Europe and we also want a Europe that is socially upwards. Without employment and without social policy there is no more Europe. Therefore, prioritising this social Europe, Your Honor, is prioritising employment. And at this point our country is also right as a society because we are able to have changed the situation and since the recovery, thanks to that collective commitment of Spanish society, our country leads the growth of employment in the European Union, we are the country that creates the most jobs, 25% more than the second, which is Germany, and 52% more than the third, which is France. We know that we have a lot of work to do, but today Spain has 19 million people working and the horizon for that recovery to be inclusive and inclusive is that it reaches the 20 million people we had working in Spain before the crisis, who deserve that opportunity. Let us therefore continue to work for that more social Europe which certainly begins with that Europe of employment. You talk to me about legality. The law in our country is important, especially since this morning we are discussing this issue in the legislative branch, because it is the Congress and the Senate that decide the laws that exist in our country, the rules that govern our coexistence, which allow us to guarantee freedom in Spain and equal opportunities. If laws need to be improved, if laws need to be changed, or if those laws need to be promoted that each day allow for a more social recovery, we are here to change them together. Therefore, it is the law that guarantees democratic coexistence and our rule of law that rules, as I say, of coexistence. And since the 1978 norm, the norm of norms, the law of laws, our 1978 Constitution, certainly our country has made much progress in progress, in well-being and also in social improvement. Spain is committed to that more social legislation every day but we have also been incorporating into our practical legislation in all areas - let me say that I am more concerned with work and social protection - through the signing of conventions, protocols and recommendations of an international nature, and not only in Europe but also in the international framework; for example, we are founding members of the International Labour Organization, we are one of its great financiers and we are the country of the world that has ratified, the last few days ago, the International Labour Organization Convention on Forced Labour. Spain is therefore committed to more social, more inclusive legislation that allows for equal opportunities among Spaniards every day. You said well, we ratified the 1961 European Social Charter in 1980, exactly in 2000 we signed the 1996 revised European Social Charter and are now considering its ratification. Because it is true that Spain shares the principles contained in that European Social Charter, it has signed all the conventions at European level which represent an advance in the protection of social rights and it always does so, be it your honor, appreciating the guarantees that such progress does not imply a lack of legal certainty or a lack of legal certainty. This prevention that Spain has is not exclusive to the Spanish Government vis-à-vis the rest of the countries of the European Union because countries as important as Germany, the United Kingdom or Denmark have not yet ratified the revised European Social Charter, and Germany or the United Kingdom are countries that respect social rights and want to improve the protection of their citizens every day. And Denmark, which for its group has always been an example, as a Nordic country, of welfare, has also not ratified this revised European Social Charter. Why have some countries - such as Spain - not yet done so? Precisely because, as I said, we want to guarantee legal certainty and the principle of legality and there is currently an intense internal debate in the Council of Europe about the legal uncertainty created by this dynamic interpretation of the revised European Social Charter by the Committee on Social Rights. Therefore, our country is acting cautiously there, but also guaranteeing that legal certainty because creative interpretation has led - the new standards developed by the Committee on Social Rights of the European Union - to even conflict with some elements of the European Convention on Human Rights and with general criteria of international law. Precisely because of this legal uncertainty created, the Steering Committee on Human Rights of the Council of Europe itself is preparing a report on social rights in Europe, seeking a technical and consensual solution to ensure this legal certainty and the principle of legality in Europe. Our country, Your Honor, is waiting to hear this report because it also wants to ratify this revised European Social Charter as soon as possible, but with legal certainty. At that time we are, with the best will but also seeking the greatest security so that no situations are created that are not desired by anyone. In the meantime, our country continues to work to make more and better jobs in Spain every day and with employment a better social policy, you know very well. Spain is now experiencing a situation that makes it possible to create 3000 jobs every day, as happened with the data for the month of October, because from January to October 581,000 jobs have been created in our country, the best given in those first ten months of the year in homogeneous terms of the entire historical series and in the hope that this year will end close to 600,000 new jobs, which is the horizon that Spanish society wants for recovery to truly reach all citizens. As I said to you, employment is the greatest guarantee of social policy and our country, which is a country committed to workers and citizens in order to promote their opportunities, when it ratifies an international convention, when it has to ratify the revised European Social Charter, as I have said, it will do so as the rest of the major countries of the European Union, always taking into account the high level of legal certainty that citizens also deserve so that we do not take surprises in the future, as has happened, for example, and you know it very well, in Sweden with the Laval case. The High Court of Justice of the European Union had a position on the case and a very different one was the interpretation given by the European Committee of Social Rights. This is an example that has given rise to a controversy that must be avoided among all of us. So our wish is that ratification, but we will wait for that report to do so in the best conditions and to guarantee, as I say, greater social protection for the Spaniards within that legal certainty and respect for the principle of legality. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u173	Thank you, Minister. In turn, Mr Monereo Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u174	To ask is to talk, to discuss and in these last five minutes I would like to discuss with you more directly. I am very, very pleased that the revised European Social Charter can be ratified. It's a great instrument. I remember that when he was arguing with the students and with Don Antonio Manuel Rodríguez, a professor of civil law who shepherded us and got us into this mess, he always said one thing, that one of the characteristics of the 15-M was to show that with struggle the world can be changed. If with our modest efforts we make Spain ratify the revised European Social Charter, then better, much better. We will be infinitely happy, without any problem. What happens is that the current situation doesn't look like you do, and it seems almost normal to me. I believe that we are experiencing a sort of retrogressive recovery; that is, there is an economic recovery, but it is done on a level and on a lower step. These years we have already lost rights, freedoms and power. Let me give you an example. When a young man goes to a supermarket to look for work - as they say, curro - he practically has no right. The company can hire it as it pleases and wherever, in black, in white, in all colors, and this young man no longer has real labor rights, has a condition that Boaventura de Sousa Santos calls contractual fascism. Why? Because there is such an inequality between the young man and the entrepreneur, that it has to be handed over. I put another example that was discussed these days, the issue of wages. It fills me with emotion and tenderness to listen to international organizations ask for wages to be raised in Spain, with emotion and tenderness. But that is not resolved by waiting for collective bargaining to encourage it after the reforms that have been made; by modifying collective bargaining and giving more power to trade unions, wages will rise irreparably. Why? Because what has happened with the crisis is that social majorities and trade unions have lost weight and power in society and as a result do not raise wages. How are wages going to rise with the working conditions in which people move? That is why it is very important that we have leverage, legal political instruments to ensure that we have an effective right to negotiate agreements, but also our employment contract. That is the key to the vault, the key to our political position, but also the key to what I have said before, to the great social consensus that exists in Spain. Look at the surveys and you will see a fundamental thing of the countries of southern Europe, you will see it everywhere. What do people want mostly? More state, more social protection, more order and more security. In the south that's a mass claim. People are willing to pay more taxes in return for greater social rights. That appears one day and another in surveys compared between the United States and Europe. That is the great consensus and that is our goal. I am told that in the previous parliamentary term a GNP was adopted on this subject more or less. Well, by bringing together that GNP and that which we hope to adopt next week, let us see if we are able to get our young people, especially the young people represented by the 15M, to have more power. If they have more power, they will have more work and if they have more work, they will have a future. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u175	Thank you very much, Mr Monereo. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Employment and Social Security has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u176	Thank you very much, President. Mr President, I shall make three comments on your speech. First, I think that as Spaniards we have to be proud of the model of welfare society we have, because we have been able to start a recovery - or, if you want, to emerge from a crisis - with a budget that allocates 6 out of 10 euros to social spending. That is the reality of Spain. Secondly, we are paying pensions for a total of EUR 140 billion, which is 12% of our GDP. We pay more pensions to more pensioners and higher than ever year after year since the recovery. In a very difficult scenario, I would like to highlight the commitment and collective effort to ensure that our older people, the most vulnerable group, have seen their pensions rise moderately every year; what a country in crisis could afford. By giving you the last data of the greatness of our model of well-being, the commitment and effort of decades of generosity of Spanish society makes today in Spain, this month, we pay more than 14 million public benefits. That is the reality of social Spain that we share. Therefore, there will always be things to improve, but at least let us be legitimately proud of what as a country we have been able to build and start in forty years. I too am concerned that there are more and better jobs in Spain every day. I told you that today in our country there are 19 million people working, but the short-term horizon is for recovery to reach all and there are 20 million people working at the end of 2019. Therefore, Your Honor, we have a million reasons for continuing to add wills together for the opportunities of the Spaniards. We want better jobs, more stable and also better wages. Of course I do! I ask you to have confidence - and I take advantage of the social partners here - in trade unions and employers, who sometimes have little recognition of their responsibility. Look, since 2012 and especially - with collective bargaining agreements - since the recovery, in 2014, they have made it possible every year in Spain to gain purchasing power, companies increasingly competitive and create 500 000 jobs on average in our country. They, who are responsible and who decide wages in collective bargaining, deserve the recognition of this House and the respect of Spanish society. I trust them. The government, modestly, in the area of wages has to make two decisions a year: that of the rise of the minimum wage, which this year with a pact with the Socialist Party rose by 8%, and the rise of salaries of the civil service, which each year rise thanks to the pacts obtained by the minister of public administrations present here in the Social Dialogue. More stability and increased growth of public wages. You tell me about the reforms. Today Spain is experiencing an inclusive recovery, a social recovery, because it translates all growth intensely into job creation, through the commitment of businesses, self-employed people, workers, the social partners and families. To this must be added the reforms undertaken by the Government of Mariano Rajoy. I'll give you a piece of information. In the first phase of the crisis, between 2008 and 2011, 70% of the adjustment measures were redundancies; four million redundancies occurred in Spain. That is Spain that we do not want because employment is the first social right that workers have. After the labor reform of 2012 that you criticize so much we have prevented dismissal from being the first recourse to which companies resort and today it is the last recourse. A study by BBVA says that if the reform had been under way at the start of the crisis, the destruction of two million jobs would have been avoided in Spain. Therefore, that is the way, a job reform for employment and a shared commitment, solidarity and adding of the whole Spanish society, and I hope that of these parliamentary groups, also of yours, because, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude, we still have a million reasons to continue adding opportunities together. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u177	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION ON GOVERNMENT POLICY IN THE FISCAL FRAUD, INTERNATIONAL TAX COOPERATION AND MEASURES AGAINST TAX PARADIS. [[File number 172/000082]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u178	We turn to the next item, the Socialist Parliamentary Group's urgent appeal to the Minister for Finance and Public Service on the government's policy on combating tax fraud, international tax cooperation and measures against tax havens. Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have recently seen through the media new cases of possible tax fraud or circumvention, the Paradise Papers, a multiple leak that includes 13.4 million documents from law firms dedicated to providing offshore services, services for the concealment of the true beneficiaries of goods and even to facilitate tax evasion. But they are also specialized services that, in many cases, within the apparent legality, reduce the tax burden in other countries, regardless of the increase in inequality and financial instability caused by their actions, because, on the one hand, they reduce revenues by putting countries' redistributive policies at risk and, on the other, the return on capital may be higher than GDP growth itself. It is therefore a tax engineering that is indignant, that worries us and that we want to end. Moreover, this so-called tax optimisation, the maximization of wealth in quantitative terms of the more wealthy classes and some large multinationals, shows how gradually the contract acquired with society is broken to contribute according to the economic capacity that is held, regardless of the social consequences that this practice has by reducing its contribution to the maintenance of a public system guaranteeing rights and services. Your Honor, Minister, this is an economic problem, but it is also ethical: it causes inequality, income falls and in the end those who have less end up paying more, concentrating wealth on a few. According to a research by the well-known economist Gabriel Zucman, Spain loses around EUR 11 billion each year for the use of tax havens and tax avoidance by multinationals, a not negligible amount. It is true that it is not an exclusive national problem; the growing process of globalization requires international coordination in order to tackle fraud. One country's tax systems are increasingly conditioned by the international factor and more tax harmonization and global governance are required, which is complicated when comprehensive agreements are required and some do not want to lose the chance of obtaining benefits at the expense of others. There are jurisdictions that can reach important deals with multinationals and a tiny 1% can be a lot of money when we talk about huge business profits. As Zucman says, what we should achieve is a global financial record, important databases in which the owners of global wealth and finance are registered because this would undoubtedly be a severe blow to financial secrecy and would give a lot of information. This would be one of the great advances towards transparency. Do you agree, Minister, with these measures? It is true that the European Union and the OECD have set themselves between their objectives to put an end to corporate tax evasion and avoidance, but there is still no common list for the whole union of non-cooperative jurisdictions and a tightening of the sanctions of those operating in them, even though it is urgent. [[The lady]] Fifty-four countries have already agreed - including Spain - to share with each other information that can be revealing, but it is clear that the effects of these agreements are not yet visible and we do not know to what extent this information will be decisive, so now, with the new leaks, as happened with the Panamanian roles, it is clear that governments are not being forceful or efficient in preventing and combating tax evasion, evasion and avoidance, and that does not contribute to improving tax morality; therefore, the socialists have wanted to place this problem at the centre of the political debate and we have brought this interpellation. Moreover, in the case of Spain, the situation is worsening, because it is not that there is no progress in improving fiscal awareness, it is that with the action of his Government it has deteriorated. Minister, you know this: in any other European country you would have already been ceased; you would have been terminated by being the author of an act considered unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court says this in its judgment: it is a fiscal amnesty - you can call it whatever you want, but it has been a fiscal amnesty - and it also accuses you that this fiscal amnesty breaks the principles of economic capacity, equality and progressiveness set out in article 31.1 of the Constitution. But, as you have already explained, for you the crisis is the umbrella of everything and can even justify your own mistakes with it. You say the amnesty was efficient because you got an extra income you wouldn't have had. You tell us: it's worth little more than nothing. But what he has actually done is legitimize tax fraud by abdicating his obligation, as my spokesman told the president this morning. It is not true that their priority was to combat fraud; in any case, to improve collection. But what would have happened if the numbers had not been reduced and the tax agency's supervisory policy had not been changed? Could we have gotten more income? I think so. It has not been done and therefore we cannot prove it, we do not know what would have happened, but what we do know is that if the tax bases that had emerged had paid what was due to them by law we would have been able to collect a great deal more than what was collected and if at least those who welcomed the amnesty had paid 10%, as was said, they would have entered 28 billion more instead of half, because there really were many who did not pay anything at all. In addition, it is estimated that 97 per cent of the existing escape remains hidden and that with amnesty only 3 per cent emerged. Therefore, Minister, do not tell us again that your amnesty has been efficient. Explain this to the self-employed, to the SMEs, to the immigrants who have returned with pensions of scarce euros who feel the breath of the tax while with the leaks that are published they find that those who have most have campain to their wide. Citizenship is outraged and rightly so, because it gives the feeling that here is smarter the one who doesn't pay and the good payers get fed up. So look at him as he looks at him, the result of his amnesty has not been efficient, it has been immoral. I hope that he will not insist on his intervention and go to the answers, to the proposals, to act against these aggressive schemes of action that undermine the future of our societies and the growth of countries themselves. Tell us what they're going to do against those who operate immune in tax havens. Please tell us why you are no longer carrying out the measures we have proposed to you by the various groups in the Committee on Finance. They have been ruling for five years, doing so on the basis of decree-law and partial measures, without defining an efficient anti-fraud strategy that would allow an objective assessment of the results. In fact, the annual results of the fight against fraud make them available to us by press release, without regular attendance at the Commission; the data are what they want to give us, as they want to give us and when they want to give them to us. Where was your commitment to bring to this House a statute of operation of the Tax Agency? Where is your commitment contained in this year's National Reform Plan to bring a bill to this House against tax fraud? Why not transpose the fourth directive on the prevention of money laundering, which makes it possible to know the actual holder of the companies, when the deadline for transposition was 27 June? What are you waiting for, Minister? [[Applauds]] It is true that we have very well prepared professionals at the Tax Agency and new technological advances can also be good allies to cross data and efficiently pursue evaders. However, that requires financial and material resources, a strong administration. However, in recent years you have weakened it, you have lost many troops in the Tax Agency. In fact, the data are so revealing that it has had no more remedy than, in July, to rectify and also urgently, through decree-law and not in the process of budgets, as would have been yours. They have approved an offer of employment, but it is still insufficient to compensate for the loss of staff. Are you not really concerned that the Tax Agency does not have sufficient means to bring about fraud on its own? Don't you find it frustrating that if there's no filtration, there's no investigation? What is your view that the number of tax offences has been significantly reduced, as it appears in the tax agency's memory? [[Applauds]] Most of the investigations carried out are of a partial nature, of a fact or of a specific element, making it very difficult to discover frauds of more than EUR 120 000, an amount from which it is considered a fiscal offence. Do you therefore intend to correct your policy? Do you intend to step up control and research? But even if you know - and if not, I tell you - that research is economically profitable, because for each euro invested in research you recover 7.5 euros. It is therefore urgent and necessary, Minister, to take effective measures to put an end to this social scourge and much work remains to be done. In Denmark almost all shops and services are digitized, they have said goodbye to the cash. When in Spain? New developments in Europe towards banking union are being published today. When in Spain? Do you intend to withdraw the license to those banks that help your customers defraud or evade taxes? Ask companies to introduce into their corporate social responsibility policies the commitment to full compliance with their tax obligations without any circumvention. It defends and advances the implementation of a European-wide NIF and a harmonised common consolidated tax base in the European Union as a means for companies to tax more fairly where they generate their profits. It advocates the imposition of sanctions on States that grant tax advantages without requiring substantive activity on their territory. Minister, we ask you to defend genuine global governance but also to carry out a national strategy against fraud and tax evasion, providing it with means, and a Spanish agenda to implement in domestic legislation the changes proposed by the European Commission and the Action Plan against the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of OECD profits. A strategy and an agenda that your Government lacks today. Make the fight against fraud a real priority. Zero tolerance. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u180	Thank you very much. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u181	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this morning's criticism - this week's issue - is about the effectiveness of the fight against tax fraud, which is the responsibility of the government. The reason is the publication, the dissemination of the new edition of these well-known papers and that I have already celebrated. I said it here, I said it during my presence on the Finance Committee. Since 2016, the Government has been celebrating such publications, broadcasts, but also that many of the people who appear in these documents are already paying their taxes in Spain. That's what Mr. Saura said this morning, isn't that what he said? They're already regularized in our country. We must therefore continue with what we are already doing because, certainly, the fight against fraud - as the President of the Government also recalled this morning - is measured, what are those results. These results show that in Spain in the last five years the collection of the fight against fraud has added 65,332 million euros, which means an average of more than 13 billion euros compared to an average of 88 billion euros from the previous five years, which is when you ruled Spain, when the collection of the fight against fraud remained at 44 113. With us in the government it went from 44 000 to 65 billion euros. Isn't that more effective at fighting fraud? Why did they not vote for Law 7/2012, which is the most advanced law that the Tax Agency has had at its levels of performance and which carries out the mandatory declaration of goods and rights abroad, model 720? Irregularities of persons appearing in these documents that are now published have not been prescribed and are therefore in the process of regularization, and may even be in the process of a tax offence. This has happened since the law that brought this government, that brought this minister to the House, that was voted by the majority of this House - at that time majority - but that you did not vote, for a change. You weren't in any of that X Legislature and you missed it, I'm telling you. They lost it, because really from this, do you know what figure is declared by tens of thousands of taxpayers who have goods abroad? 103 billion euros, which is the one that collects the 40 billion DTE, which you continue to call amnesty - call it what you want, we have lost the battle of communication as many others, but not the battle of figures -. Even if it is an intellectual and rhetorical question ask yourself why the previous governments had not identified those EUR 40 billion that had Spanish taxable persons abroad. Why? Or weren't they? No, it is not collection, you look at the declared taxable base, 40 billion, total of the declaration of model 720 throughout the world 103 billion euros declared, identified perfectly. Do you know what that means by economic impulse? Do you know what that means in terms of economic recovery for our country? That those people who were not declaring it earlier now have it regularized and, therefore, are moving it in terms of economic activity. This is one of the causes - not the only one - that is mobilizing and making us have this economic growth so creating employment and so positive in Spain. That's measured. Aren't these figures I gave him the truth? Aren't those the real ones? You are adorned with rhetoric: but how will a right-wing government do the fight against fraud? For it does so, it does so, and it does so more forcefully and effectively than a left-wing government, consider what life is, what the condition of life is; for it does so. By the way, we pay a political cost for this; do not tell me the personal cost I pay, but I am doing what I have to do in compliance with the tax obligations of Spanish citizens, have goods and rights in Spain or outside Spain. Isn't that what's happening? Aren't those the numbers? We are going to the figures for the growth of VAT collection this year. VAT is growing between 9 and 10%; family consumption is growing in nominal terms, half. Does that mean that this growth does not come from the fight against fraud? Of course, we are emerging from the economy, the economy of which is submerged, which the president said is 20 billion, another 40,000. So let me pass on the information - as was said earlier - that we resolve the issue of the public deficit in our country structurally. All these are estimates that, of course, are highly respectable; but what are demonstrating the actual collection figures, the actual declaration figures, the actual figures of the tax agency's inspection exercise is that we had never experienced such a situation in Spain in terms of combating fraud, never. [[The lady]] Moreover, at the international level, we are leading that fight against tax havens. At the OECD level and at the European level, we are leading the fight against the tax avoidance of multinationals, with agreements already signed that make those multinationals, apart from declaring profit as aggregate, also declare the sales, the activity they carry out in each of our territories. We are at the top of our history on the signing of double taxation agreements. We are, in short, in the materiality of an exchange of tax information that is mandatory among the signatory countries of that situation. That is to say, the Tax Agency does not need to address them, but the countries that sign these agreements - by the way, many of them also stuck in former tax havens - have an obligation to transfer tax information they have about Spanish tax residents. We've never seen this before, and I've been a finance minister before. You would understand until you came up to this rostrum and said to me, "Listen, Mr. Montoro, and why didn't you do that in the early 2000s?" That would understand it as a valid reproach. He is right, but I cannot accept as a current reproach what is contradictory, what is evident and in what we are progressing. To myself, as the holder of the Spanish Public Treasury, it seemed impossible, unfathomable. All this has a basic explanation, Your Honor, which is the condition, the category of officials of the Spanish Tax Agency; condition, category, professional independence which certainly places the Tax Agency with a management capacity, with the fight against fraud, with a technological management capacity of the first in the world. We have implemented - as the President of the Government also recalled this morning - what we call the SII, the VAT information system, which involves an online VAT settlement for more than 64 000 companies. Do you remember what this meant and the things that I was told were going to happen: a catastrophe, a hecatombe and that companies were going to have untold costs? Today 95% of these companies are incorporated into this system, which means that almost 80% of the commercial traffic in Spain is declaring itself online. That is something formidable in terms of what knowledge and management capacity means and to control VAT in our country. All this is what we are seeing during these days regarding the SII in terms of implementation. During these years, what has been shown is that Spain has an excellent public function in the matter of Tax Agency - of the best in the world, of the best - and that is what we have to put in value, that they are doing their exercise and performing their function with the security that it represents for all of us, who are, in one way or another, contributors to the tax system. So, I want to tell you, Your Honor, that I see where you're going, I see where you're going - I'm not going to convince you this morning - we're going to another motion on amnesty. You'll see if you want to keep getting water out of that well. The well is drier... but there each. What I am saying to the Socialist Party is that we should be positive in this type of matter, that we should make a motion that we can really vote on together in a matter such as this, that of the fight against fraud, where we all have to move forward and win. That's what we all have to invite ourselves to. The Government's willingness is complete and complete, both to bring in Community legislation and, obviously, if the Socialist Group so understands, to bring in a new bill with the new measures that we jointly decide are effective in the fight against fraud. We are at your disposal, ladies and gentlemen; we are at your disposal, Madam Spokesman, to carry out all these regulatory changes by taking advantage of the experience and also of the new platform that means the role that Spain is playing in enabling the approach to combat fraud, against tax havens at the international level, in the field of multinationals, in the field of the application in our country of our tax system, to reach quotas that certainly did not seem impossible many years ago. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u182	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I don't know if you hear me, but what's clear is you don't listen to me. The responsibility is yours. In my first speech I have made a lot of proposals and even mentioned many of the commitments that you have made here in this House and in your reply you have said absolutely nothing to me, you have not answered anything, you simply tell me that it is costing you a lot, that it has a very high personal cost. Look, the cost goes to salary, the first question and, second, what is a reality and unquestionable is that your tax amnesty is the only one that has been classified as unconstitutional. You are a reprobated minister for this, for undermining fiscal morality and, to the best of my knowledge, you have failed to achieve the goal you were pursuing. It is therefore more than proven that the fight against fraud has not been a priority for this Government. Minister, speaking of indicators, you said that the fight against tax fraud is measured, right? I've measured it too. These are the tax offences. [[Show a chart]] Can you explain to me why tax offences have fallen? Why is there 50% less now, when it's really being chased? The president was giving us a figure, wasn't he? It gave 48 percent more, which in the socialist governments was not done... Look, in the socialist government, they discovered 50 percent more tax offences. [[Applauds]] Therefore, do not tell us that tax fraud was not being pursued. Now it is when there are indicators that, in fact, what they show is that it can be being collected, but of course the pursuit of tax fraud is not being pursued. We also raised this question with a constructive character. I believe that if you review my speech, you will see that I have raised a problem that is not unique and exclusively national, but international. We have raised a number of issues; I have even raised the problem and concern we have about how the fiscal conscience is deteriorating, and you have made no reference to it. We want to know what the Government is willing to do to improve that fiscal awareness. From what we have seen from his speech, he does not intend to do anything. Are you not going to rectify absolutely nothing to improve society's fiscal awareness? You're not planning on doing it? We're really worried. We are concerned, of course, that the partial anti-fraud measures they are doing are isolated and not part of a global strategy! Of course we're worried! They are committed to bringing a bill to this House; they say so in their National Reform Plan. And now, as a great thing, he says, whenever you want, we sit down. Hey, you've been ruling for six years. Please work and bring what you have to bring, which is your responsibility. [[Applauds]] Indicators. For the second time in history, compliance is achieved in 2016 by more than 800 million less than the result of 2015. The first time a smaller collection was obtained was in 2013. It may be, as you will tell me, that singular circumstances have been given, but reality is what it is and cannot hide it. The reality is what it is, and is that in 2016 the results were 14,883 million euros and in 2015, 15,664 million. Therefore, lower collection. But, look, what I'm worried about is not this number dance. For us, what is worrying is that you are not transparent, that your Government is not coming to appear and that last Monday, in the Committee on Finance, the Secretary of State spent a great deal of time talking about other institutions and, of course, did not spend absolutely any time talking about what was right. We are therefore concerned that the results will continue to be exaggerated and made up without addressing the weaknesses of the agency's research capacity; an attitude that is, of course, self-complacent and that is the worst attitude to be effective. Minister, answer me to the questions I asked you. Do you agree with an international financial record? Does the government agree to create a tax on profits diverted by multinationals? We are facing great challenges and his Government must be launched now. Bring a statute for the Tax Agency, as you committed. Bring a strategy against fraud, a bill. Impulse the regulation of tax havens. If he does not do so and remains motionless, what he will be doing is bringing this country and this society to an unsustainable situation. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u184	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanquer Alcaraz. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, tax offences are decided by the courts, not decided by the Tax Agency. The Tax Agency conducts investigations into indications that are qualified by the judicial authorities and obviously by the prosecution. Therefore, the courts are in charge of their proceedings, that is our rule of law; it is not the function of the Tax Agency. Secondly, as far as tax awareness is concerned, I am again at your disposal, because I do not know how this is measured, but I really believe that there is quite a certain compliance with tax legislation in our country, but we must continue to work on it, because really that exact, strict compliance with our tax legislation is absolutely fundamental. He used the collection of VAT as an example. If VAT collection is rising twice as much as family consumption is doing, it means that there is obviously better compliance with tax obligations. Therefore, all this can be measured and is in the results. Thirdly, all the double taxation agreements signed, all the OECD initiatives, all that is the initiative of Spain together with the other European governments that we have taken forward, the obligations to exchange tax information, etc., are they not real? Is that what existed before? It is the merit of this Government, of the other participating Governments and of the international bodies that drive them. We are really in a changing world, which your lordship calls zero intolerance, and I too, of course, add up and exercise that zero intolerance in the face of tax fraud; the possession of undeclared property and rights abroad is unacceptable, it is unacceptable from all points of view, but let us acknowledge that we have made progress. Or do we not have 103 billion identified with names and surnames? Isn't that a reality? If we have this, why don't we identify it and recognize it? From there, Your Honor, I will remind you that we are a minority government, a free minority, is a circumstance of this legislature. We are accused of not bringing in bills, but we have to agree to bring them in. Or isn't that a minority government? Doesn't that rule in a minority? It is our responsibility, of course, but the minority has an advantage, that responsibility is shared. Is it or is it not? Let us not add up and then we have to build agreements, which is what we have done during this year of government, which we have reached important agreements. We voted for important rules with the Socialist Party at the beginning of this parliamentary term. Thanks to these important tax rules today we have within reach the deficit target of 3.1 per cent, thanks to the collection that comes from these very important rules. Have we understood each other in this legislature or have we not understood each other? Yes, we have. They voted in favour, didn't they? You were already here in this legislature and you have voted with this government from tax rules relating to the tax of major corporations until the approval of the spending ceiling of 2017, all that you have done with this government; you have done with my person in this government. And we have recorded on that screen the majority votes that have never had the spending ceiling here and in the Spanish Senate. And now, what has changed? The government doesn't. What's changed? The Socialist Party? I hope not, I hope not. Why? Because the economic recovery of the country is at stake, the job creation of this country is at stake, the reduction of the public deficit and the fulfilment of our European commitments are at stake. So many things are at stake that really matter! And as the Socialist Party is demonstrating, it is up to it to support the Government's action on Article 155 of our Constitution. That is the spirit, it is the spirit that we must continue to develop in this legislature so that we can effectively say that we are up to what the Spanish demand of all, all, the Government and all the political groups that sit in this House. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-15-CD171115.u186	Thank you very much, Minister. The meeting rose. It was twelve thirty-five minutes from noon.
