ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u1	The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the Chamber the exclusion from the agenda of this sitting of item 28, corresponding to the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 4/2017 of 24 February, amending the regime of workers for the provision of the port service of handling of goods, giving effect to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 11 December 2014, remitted in case C-576/13 File number 130/000010. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The exclusion of the reference point is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u2	We began the session with the item on the consideration of proposals for popular initiative legislation. In particular, the proposed law amending Act No. 39/2006 of 14 December 2006 on the promotion of personal autonomy and care for persons in a situation of dependency, with regard to participation in the cost of the benefits and services of the beneficiaries. The Socialist Group has asked for the floor in favour, and Mrs Pérez Domínguez has the floor to do so.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to welcome the organization promoting popular legislative initiative, the representatives and representatives of the Cermi who accompany us from the rostrum and also the Social Work Council. We regret that they cannot defend it themselves and themselves. Although we have taken a great step forward - we have already made progress and have been able to explain in the Commission the need for this initiative - it would have been desirable for them to have done so. The Socialist Parliamentary Group, whom I am honoured to represent in this rostrum, has called for the defence of this rostrum. After all, if you will allow me all of you who are above and also many of the Members of this House who participated in the drafting of the law, it is logical, because at the end of the day this law is our law, it is the law of all, it is also my law. It is a shift that is fully justified in defending a beautiful law, a worthy law that brought us to debate in 2006 the socialist government and in which we work many hours, many days, many nights, many months and many people from this House and from outside it, from civil society... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u4	One second, Mrs. Pérez. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not give the floor to the speaker until there is no silence in the House. It's three and five in the afternoon. I think it's time to be quiet and listen to the speaker. Go ahead, Mrs. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u5	Thank you, Madam President. This law was launched in 2007, recognizing for the first time in our country the right of persons who cannot use themselves to be served by the public authorities, a universal right for the whole population and with public guarantee. This law came to respond to a demand, to a need of society, and, let me add, to the day that is - tomorrow is 8 March - also to focus on the invisible work of the care that millions of women have been doing in the care of their elderly, their children, their dependent relatives; an invisible work that this law brought to light, just as it brought out the law, and turned it into for them, for the eternal caregivers, in employment, not only in work, in paid employment, quality, with social security contributions that guarantee a pension in old age, a good part of that invisible work that always, today and tomorrow, 8 March, we socialists intend to make visible this hidden work of women. It was a law that, in addition to recognizing a right to dependent persons, offered an alternative to those we were then obliged to care, an alternative to be able to develop professionally, because we knew that the institutions would be responsible for that care; also a co-responsibility and a hope in tasks that became services and benefits recognized by a right, but also an opportunity for those who wished to take care of our own to do so with dignity, with recognition, with a salary, with a social security contribution that gave us the right to pensions. Also for all of them, not only because of the generous initiative of the Cermi, also because of all of them and for all of us, this law was a tribute and an opportunity that we have seen frustrated by the demolition, in the words of the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services, which the People's Party carried out during the five hard and cruel years of its absolute majority in the Government and in this Parliament, returning women during that period to the domestic sphere, to the home and to take care of our own, with policies that have penalized us and that I will not list, but among them this one that brings us here today the Cermi, the implementation of an impossible copayment to the care and care of people in situations of dependence. Ladies and gentlemen, the process before this parliamentary law was exemplary. It was also the parliamentary procedure, with more than fifty appearances of all kinds for months and with those six hundred and twenty-five amendments that were negotiated one by one, resulting in the majority incorporated directly or traded. The final approval was widely supported by the People's Party at the last minute, and only those groups left out who put their territorial demands above all and above all. Then they were Convergence and Union and the PNV. It is necessary to make this brief reminder that, after its adoption, it began to be implemented as planned. The amendments introduced in the parliamentary procedure - I would like to remind the House that at that time both in and outside the Chamber were negotiated - qualitatively and quantitatively broadened the scope of the law, good proof of which must be given by the Cermi, persons with disabilities and with support needs were incorporated into this law. This involved a greater effort than originally planned, despite which the system began to be implemented; it did so forcefully and continuously until the end of 2011. But the arrival to the People's Party government was a sudden stoppage after which the system was brutally attacked in the form of cuts and reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, in December 2011 the government of Mariano Rajoy decided to paralyse the timetable for the implementation of the law. Subsequently, in the first General Budgets of the State that drew up that Government for 2012, it eliminated the item corresponding to the agreed level, which amounted to 283 million euros. This level of funding was abolished, year after year, in the budgets of 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016. The pernicious Royal Decree-Law 20/2012, of 13 July, of measures to guarantee budgetary stability and to promote competitiveness - they will tell me what this has to do with this law on which I speak - introduced numerous changes in the regulation of the system that caused enormous damage to people in a situation of dependence. In addition, the resolution of 13 July 2012 of the Secretariat of State for Social Services and Equality approved criteria and contents on the economic capacity and participation of the beneficiary - which is the subject that brings us here - in the cost of the benefits that entailed a significant increase in the co-payment. This resolution, which is embodied in an agreement of the territorial council, is the fruit of its time, the time when an absolute majority of the People's Party government coincided, which made the roller its only permanent way of acting, and a majority of the People's Party's autonomous governments. The equation is easy, if there is a right-wing government with a few, we know, anti-social policies; but if, in addition, there is a right-wing government with absolute majorities, because there is an absolute lack of social policies or absolute anti-social policies. Reflecting this was the new model of the copayo they implanted. Its configuration was framed in the spending reduction targets, as I said, and that says it all. The 2012 resolution set an increase in the participation of beneficiaries in the cost of care for services and services up to a maximum of 90 % of the cost of service. Previously, this limit was only provided for those who were in an institution - only for them - residential and always with a liquidity forecast, because the rest of all co-sponsored services were between 40 and 65 %, which means that the maximum contribution of the beneficiary - which is what this initiative brings us here today - was increased by between 25 and 50 %. But this, being serious, was not the worst. The above-mentioned resolution provides that the competent autonomous communities or administration could, in turn, establish a greater participation of the beneficiary in the cost of services and economic benefits. And, if that were not enough, they set a 19% reserve of Iprem for personal expenses, adding, however, that the autonomous communities could set even lower amounts. This regulation already crossed all the boundaries that some of us could imagine. If the autonomous communities can establish other systems of participation that are even harder for the beneficiary, the council would not be fulfilling its function that is nothing other than guaranteeing the object of this law: the right to receive attention and to ensure the existence of a minimum common content of the law throughout the national territory and for all Spanish and Spanish. Some autonomous communities, obviously governed by the People's Party, lacked time to use the agreement to further harden the co-op, which means that the services or benefits for the same situation vary enormously depending on which autonomous community they reside in or, which is the same, when one votes it is also important who will govern them. Not only that, but in some cases the law has been completely emptied. In our view, the Socialist Group believes that the right to the promotion of personal autonomy and attention to dependence, as well as the principle of equality, has been violated, since there is no common minimum content of the law, in addition to clearly questioning the universal character that the law established as one of the guiding principles of the system. In the face of this panorama you can already imagine everyone - because we have lived it - what happened, the defense platforms of the Law of Dependence began to emerge. Look closely at the language, defense, someone was attacking the law and we've already named it. Views of the Observatory of the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services Unit reported that the arrival of the PP Government was beginning a phase of the system's setback and demolition and its death by starvation. The General Council of Social Work pushed the orange tide in a campaign to protest the social cuts among which was the law. The Ombudsman's report for 2012 saw a disproportionate increase in the number of cases of collective complaints, which amounted to 14,335, an increase of 170.06 per cent over the previous year, caused by these cuts. Also the Cermi, the platform for representation, defence and action of Spanish citizens with disabilities could not be indifferent to what they described as a regulation lacking equity and material justice, close to the confiscatory, and that, rather than inviting the exercise of subjective law, expelled the elderly and disabled, natural recipients of the system. They reacted by promoting this popular legislative initiative whose consideration we have the honour to discuss and defend. This is the reality. After the administration of the People's Party we have a system with a fully implemented timetable but with sad data: 350,000 people remain in the limbo of the waiting lists; in the last five years more than 150,000 dependent people with recognized rights have caused low and not because they recovered, but because of death without having received the services or services that corresponded to them. From direct public expenditure in dependency in 2016, the State General Administration supported, contributed, provided 17% and the remaining 83 % for the autonomous communities. The accumulated reduction of the General Administration of the State in dependency following the royal decree of 2012 amounts to more than 3,734 million euros, considering the abolition of the agreed level, the reduction of the minimum level and that of the contributions of family caregivers. In an exercise of maximum cynicism they are able to deny here the evidence of the cuts while before the European Commission, the European Central Bank or the IMF not only recognize it, but also boast about it. There is nothing more to read about the update of the stability programme to see how they boast of what they have cut in rights. They were able to choose and choose, they chose to destroy people's lives and hope because behind this law, ladies and gentlemen, there are people with names and surnames, families who suffer and we have left behind many who have died along the way with their recognized right and without being able to enjoy it. Ladies and gentlemen, just a few days ago I attended the presentation of the report of the Observatory of the Unit made by the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services, with official data. The data from this theft of the law through decrees or resolutions are really terrible, but today we have reason to regain that right and improve it, among other things the representation we have today in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, only in my own country, in Extremadura, could 2,638 beneficiaries have been cared for if the close to EUR 16 million had come to us, which has meant a sharp cut in the PP's funding. I'm finishing up, President. There is also a need to talk about funding, about the funding of those who were able to choose, and who chose that funding to be passed on to individuals, families and autonomous communities. In this scenario, my group shares, supports and endorses the need to debate and act to recover the law, but not because of a formal issue or because we like the law very much, but because ours is a position in favour of people in dependency and their families, who once had a right and who today have seen it curtailed by a right-wing government. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I hope that all groups will support and take this initiative into consideration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u6	Thank you very much. In the course of fixing positions, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor first, by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. On behalf of the Forum, I would like to express our satisfaction at the opportunity to adopt the first popular legislative initiative to be discussed in the democratic General Courts, on social issues that seek to amend the Law on the Promotion of Personal Autonomy and Care for Dependent Persons. This achievement must be acknowledged to its drivers, included in the Cermi, and it must be thanked to the nearly 740,000 signatories who have supported the revision of the normative framework on dependency co-payment. I do not have time to elaborate on the evaluation of the results of the Dependency Act itself, which can be clearly improved from the minute one of its approval, although I will point out that in Asturias precariousness has prevailed. At present, there are more than 4,000 people out of the 23,100 entitled to dependency aid who have not been able to obtain any help from the socialist autonomous government presided over by Javier Fernández. Therefore, when it is pointed out as one of the main objectives of this ILP that of preserving unity and equity in the implementation of the Law of dependency without harm because of the place of residence, from Asturias we can do nothing but support it because, unlike other communities, an important part of our dependents are suffering the neglect of their rights, with the particularity that the situation is constantly worsening because we suffer the most acute demographic problem in Europe. In Asturias, the co-sponsorship of the Autonomous Government became an abuse, to say the least. It should be noted that the Principality has admitted that it has harmed 2,338 heirs of dependent users and recognised a debt of more than €6 million to families that were overcharged for the use of residential facilities. Data and my autonomic guilt from last week. Ladies and gentlemen, this ILP allows for the revision of measures to improve the lives of many people, which will only be guaranteed if economic growth continues in Spain and jobs are created. Let us not forget that the great obstacle to implementing the Dependency Act has been to ignore the crisis and try to implement different measures without having the resources to implement them. That is why ILP has to push for reforms that are consistent with Spain's ability to generate resources because, otherwise, it will fall back on the frustration of hundreds of thousands of people and their families, who will be left without social protection and their hopes to improve their living conditions will be truncated. My vote, Madam President, will be in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u8	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr Cayo, Mr Durán, representatives of the State Cermi, congratulated on this popular legislative initiative. I would like to inform all those present that the Navarro People's Union will logically vote in favour of taking into account the amendment of the Dependency Act. In addition, I would also like to thank Don Luis Cayo for his presence next week on his visit to Navarre, which he will make to the Commission on Disability, at the initiative of the Union of the Navarro People, in order to get to know the social entities in the field of disability and also the dependency. Thank you so much. I would also like to move and recall, ladies and gentlemen, what was the spirit in 2006 of the evil so-called Dependency Act, Law 39/2006, which came to say that in addition to the user's co-payment, of dependent persons, the State was going to pay 50% of the cost of these benefits and another 50% of each autonomous community and, therefore, the Navarra Foral Community. The reality has been tremendously different. As the last report of the Chamber of Auditors, which is our supervisory and audit body in the Foral Community of Navarre - I insist, in March 2015-, 70% of the contribution of the cost of these social investment benefits for social responsibility was made by the outsourced government of the Navarro People's Union, only 9% paid by the State and 21% paid by the user through the co-sponsorship. I would also like to point out that in the last five years, after the repeal of the level of funding agreed between the Autonomous Communities and the Navarra Foral Community with the State, Navarra has stopped paying EUR 10.1 million. We want to resume this funding as initially reflected in the initial draft of the Dependency Act. Finally, Madam President, we want to denounce the current situation of the system of dependency in Navarre: 4,300 dependent or disabled persons, therefore 4,300 families, are waiting today for an average of thirteen months for the right to their economic or service provision, when barely two years ago, in May 2015, it was barely six months. Therefore, because of responsibility and social sensitivity, we will vote in favour of this amendment to the Dependency Act. Congratulations and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u10	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u11	Pick it up on. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Euskal Herria Bildu will support this initiative by believing that it intends to establish clearer, fairer and equal criteria for economic capacity and cost-sharing so that they do not exclude people in a situation of dependency from adequate social protection and allow them to have the necessary economic resources to live a dignified life. And it is that the regulation of the copayo is decisive for the realization of a right. It is not enough to have adequate services, they need to be accessible. To make it clear: no one can be excluded from the services he needs in order to lead a life worthy of his economic capacity. We understand that it is fair to take into account the vital moment of the emergence of the dependency situation, since it does not have the same vital impact as dependency is linked to age or disability itself. Similarly, in order to enhance the personal autonomy of the dependent person, it is an important element that in establishing the economic capacity to determine the payment to be made, the capacity of the living unit, that is, of his family or of those living with that person, is not taken into account. As to the minimum amount the dependent person must have for his or her personal expenses, which is known as free disposal, it must be borne in mind that the services offered are very diverse and even in residential areas not all costs are covered. We therefore believe that not only should this minimum amount be respected, but that it should be guaranteed to those who do not have it. Another element of the proposal which ensures the progressive implementation of the co-payment is the exemption for persons with incomes below EUR 1,300. In our view, at least care costs should be free of charge because they are linked to dependency needs, while maintenance and hotel workers could have another consideration as they are expenses that all people must bear in mind. For this reason, Euskal Herria Bildu's vote will be affirmative, because we understand that the law must offer help to dependent people, but it must also empower them to have greater autonomy; and we understand that there is still a long way to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u12	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group too, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u13	Thank you, Madam President. We also welcome the representatives of Cermi and the Social Work Council. It is not easy to collect 750,000 signatures to be able to present an ILP in this House, and that is an expression of the strength of the association movement of persons with disabilities, which has proven to have this presence throughout the territory with strong organizations everywhere, which allows it to open this debate; the debate of the revision of the Unit Act through questioning the co-sponsorship system, raising a co-sponsorship that is more equitable, fairer and that takes into account the specific needs of persons with disabilities. The co-sponsorship debate is also the debate on the financing of the Unit Act. My group, together with the Basque Group and the deputy of Eusko Alkartasuna, opposed the bill ten years ago because there was a competitive invasion and because in the approach of the law the issues of financial sustainability of the bill were not resolved. I remember that from the seat we warned Mr Rodríguez Zapatero that with the financing system set out in the law, in the end those who would have to bear responsibility for the cost of these policies would essentially be the autonomous communities. And that has happened in such a way that even during the crisis the autonomous communities have had to face more financial responsibilities than they had. 80% of public expenditure in this area is for the Autonomous Communities, which breaks with the commitments set out in the Act itself. And more co-op of the autonomous communities means more pressure for the co-op of users. Therefore, the debate is not only about how we shape a co-sponsorship system, but how we make the state re-engage in the funding of the unit and how we shape a system of care for the unit that is sustainable over time. This discussion did not take place ten years ago, but other European states addressed these policies with surcharges in the IRPF or with social security contributions. In Spain, it was decided that this corresponded simply to the dynamics of the general income of the State, and that has led to the crisis of the system of dependence during these years. Welcome be the discussion that Cermi raises for us; it allows us to have the discussion about the copayo, but it must also allow us to have an in-depth discussion about the sustainability of this public policy. It is not a minor issue, the Members of the Democratic Party will be in this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u14	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. It should not be surprising for the proponents and their lords to begin by recalling that the Basque Group opposed in 2006 the law which is intended to amend because it understood and continues to understand that it violates the division of jurisdiction between the State and the autonomous communities, and in our case in particular because it violates article 10.12 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country. For this reason, ten years later, under the same title of competition, 149.1.1.a, what is described as a correction of the result of a failed project - more or less - does not exactly move us to modify that opinion, position and assessment that was made in its day. It seems difficult to do so, moreover, when the draft reiterates, in our view - and with all due respect, that is, towards the proponents, to whom we must also show absolute consideration - the same competitive error, the same statutory failure and with the same consequences of omitting autonomous powers in the management of social policies, with the added addition that the management of those powers from the State administration has been described, where appropriate, as a failure. And it is that the error is, in our view, in the very conception of that law which, like the ILP, justified in 149.1.1.a the possibility of intervention in this matter, that is, in the regulation of the basic conditions that guarantee the equality of all Spaniards. We have said this in its day and we reiterate it today: it is not lawful to invoke as a competitive title a higher value of the legal order, as is the principle of equality, as if it were an attribution of competences. This is not the purpose of article 149.1.1.a, nor can it be made use of its terms to justify improper attribution of powers to the State. The 149.1.1.a cannot be manipulated and distorted to convert what is an exclusive competence of the Autonomous Communities into an exclusive and shared competition of the State, such as those of the Autonomous Communities, above all - as the previous speaker has just said - with disastrous consequences that, as I say, we are seeing. Instead of dealing in its natural place, in the vicinity of the regulatory solution, with the problems that can be created, we are once again trying to remedy that legislative attempt that has failed. In our view - and that is also with respect - an attempt is being made to shelter under the apparent umbrella of a right in need of regulation in basic aspects in order to legislate specific areas of management of the material title of social services which, perfectly, can be designed by the autonomic legislator, taking into account both its competences and its particular characteristics. An attempt is being made to disguise, under the guise of measures that guarantee the essential core of a right of legal configuration, which are only measures of material management - that of financial sustainability of guarantee of that right - which in no way corresponds to any of the requirements required by constitutional jurisprudence when it has come to interpret 149.1.1.a as its own title. The normative content of that subjective right is not being regulated, but is intended to act by re-examining exclusive autonomous competences and, therefore, the conditions for the enjoyment of that right. In the case of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, Law 12/2008 regulates social services and articulates the internal competence in order to regulate benefits that are incorporated, first, in the portfolio of benefits and services of the Basque System of Social Services and, second, integrating those provided for in the Law of State Unit, which in our case are implemented both by the Basque Government and by outlaws and municipalities. This portfolio was regulated by a Decree, 185/2015, which attributed the Basque Government to the regulation and provision of certain services, and it is therefore the Government that regulates the economic requirements of the provision and the regulation and provision of the rest of the services to the outside bodies. In these services, each foral deputy also adopts a foral decree regulating the technical and economic requirements of such provision. It is our regulation that regulates these aspects that comes again to regulate the law - and now the amendment that is intended to regulate it - and therefore we understand that this new intrusion occurs. This is despite the fact that, for its part - and this is also with appreciation to the proponents of this issue - the concrete measures on which it is based could be even acceptable, that is, we could agree on them and, in fact, they are also partly being applied in the Basque Country. The specific measures are those of article 14, which includes different factors to determine the economic capacity of those who can contribute to the sustainability of the provision and that of article 33 to introduce different guarantees in the economic effort of the persons benefiting from the system. I repeat, these are not baladian issues and they do not seem to us to have happened; we could have participated in two of them, but instead we must disagree that - as the explanatory statement itself comments - it affects a new issue which also involves a new competitive invasion, which is the attribution to the regulatory development of those determinations that are included in the law, this time in a modified way. For this reason, and even if we are in some way involved not only in philosophy but also in part of the content that has been proposed by those who have taken the legislative initiative, we have no other solution, we will not be able to change that decision, that assessment that was made in 2006. We understand that it continues to lead to the same defects, but above all it continues to lead to a basic defect, which is to understand that certain problems, because they are regulated by the State, will be better attended to. The jurisdictional distribution of 148 and 149 of the Constitution also responds to a certain reality, which is that certain problems in the social care system have been recognized in favour of the autonomous communities, in our case specifically in 10.2 of the Statute of Autonomy, as I have recalled before. And it's no coincidence, it's because there are problems that are best attended to from the nearness, from the closeness, by the municipalities in their case and in our case by the deputies, but of course by the autonomous communities in these cases and in many others in which there are again incurring competition violations to which, with all due respect, we cannot give our blessing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Deputys and deputies, good afternoon. My affection and consideration for the representatives of Cerm, who honor us with their presence. How difficult and long a way they have gone to this day! They have all our recognition. Promoting a popular legislative initiative takes a long time and effort, very few achieve it. In fact, some ninety popular initiatives have been attempted in this House and only one succeeded in 1995. Once all the requirements - which are not few - have been exceeded, and let us give this ILP a green light today and prosper - that I hope - it will be these political forces that must bring these proposals to fruition. I ask you to be vigilant, I ask you not to legislate in this House against what you have proposed, i.e. not to cut with much water what you have rightly proposed. We are certainly vigilant, but you must make this last effort, not insignificant. The Spanish Committee of Representatives of Persons with Disabilities, the Cermi, has managed to pass all the procedures. Today we discuss the last one, which will allow the current criteria of co-sponsorship in matters of personal autonomy and attention to dependence to change because - as has been said here and you say - they are confiscatory. About 740,000 signatures have supported it, as have all political forces. When you, Luis Cayo Pérez Bueno, were on the Commission of Health and Social Services all the political forces congratulated you. I therefore think that congratulations will become a majority vote in favour. We share his view expressed in the Commission and insist that more than ten years ago we were aware that it was not the best law and that its funding was not secured. What made the Republicans vote for it? The cost of non-law; I repeat, the cost of non-law. In view of these ten years and this terrible crisis that we have suffered - some more than others - let us imagine if there had not been a law of dependence, with all its shortcomings, what a terrible situation would have occurred. Now, if we vote for it as a Republican fraternity, we continue to see how what has been wrong is to be rectified and, it seems false, not rectified by the big parties in this room, you rectify it with your initiative. This is something I hope no one will put on the medal, because it is on your initiative. It is true that the creation of the so-called fourth leg of the welfare state was something positive, but it was born short, it is a fourth leg short. There was not enough political support to ensure that this new social protection architecture was free of charge, without cost to the user. The cohabiting as a lesser evil - in this country the lesser evils last and last and become greater - has marked the whole system, and this lesser evil has become by the regulations that have happened to be unacceptable. The current co-payment criteria expel many people who benefit from the system because they are unable to meet the costs; they allow large differences between autonomous communities and there are territories in which the cost is zero and in the other 90%; they harm people with disabilities who generate their own income, that is, they penalise something that should be positivized. In view of this scenario, the ILP proposes to establish a maximum copay of 60% for the beneficiary, leaving the autonomous communities free to set lower percentages and exempt from any payment to those with an income of less than 2.5 times the Iprem, 1.331 euros. In addition, it is necessary to take into account the variable in the dependency situation, which has been acquired or is born, because in the latter case the person in dependency has not been able to have his own income and will face expenses for many more years. And again we need to talk about funding. If this does not appear explicitly, if this funding is not made possible in the changes, if it is not shared to 50% between the state and the autonomous communities, because with the present state it would be impossible to apply, let us not again frustrate expectations; neither do we deserve it, nor do we have any legitimacy to do so today. We cannot continue, as now, paying the Autonomous Communities, such as the Generalitat, 80% and the State, 20%. This didn't start with the last government, it started earlier. It began with the 40, then with the 30 and now with the 20; that is, excuses from the State, to which it has accustomed to the autonomous communities, excuses of bad payer. This law must have a memory of multi-year commitments to be enforced in the General Budgets of the State. All this will be discussed in the law, but it is fundamental, because it is good enough in good words. It must be said loud and clear. It should be recognized that people who need intensive support for their autonomy, persons with disabilities, the elderly and their families, have historically been silenced, have been invisible, have not been part of centrality, have not had easy and fluid access to the political agenda, nor to the legislative; they have had to organize, have had to fight, have had to name, 740,000 signatures, to be listened to once and for all. We will certainly support them. Leave me before I end up remembering a great person who was a deputy. March 10th would be the year and this month's 5th is the anniversary of an intervention that moved many of us. I am very inspired by that phrase of 'fucking', which I had no desire to offend but to express a state of mind, or have we not often shared this state of mind in this country? It was José Antonio Labordeta. I will recite a few verses, because the best tribute is not silence, it is his word. I'm sorry, Jaume Malla and Oskar Matute, but for the moment I won't sing, I'll just recite a short fragment of We Are: 'We are / like those old trees / beaten by the wind / whipping from the sea. / We have / lost companions, / landscapes and hopes / in our walk. / We go / sinking in the words / lips footprints / to be able to kiss / times / futures and longed, / hands against hands / making equality.' We're like these old trees. A hug to the people of your land, Aragon, especially dedicated to you, the good people of Cermi, and to all who have made it possible to fight day by day to get closer to equality. Equality and the Republic. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u18	Thank you very much. Mr Gómez Balsera has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of Citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. 'The dependence is not viable' - I close quotes -. [[Show a page from El País]] This was said by President Rajoy three days before winning the elections in November 2011, and so El País picked him up. In honor of his words, just a month later his absolute majority approved Royal Decree 20/2011 of 30 December, which amended the timetable for the implementation of the law and introduced cuts in spending. He will be followed by other royal decrees on the same line as the 20/2012, in which once again the absolute majority of the People's Party establishes the copay for those dependent on incomes higher than the Iprem, 532 euros, ladies and gentlemen, who have to assume thus part of the cost of the provision or service. And centered on the copayo we are presented with this popular legislative initiative backed by 740,000 signatures, promoted by the Cermi. I take the opportunity to greet Don Luis Cayo Pérez Bueno, Don Pilar Villarino, Don Luis Javier Alonso, Don Alberto Durán of the Eleven Foundation and the other representatives of the association movement around disability who accompany us today from the guest gallery. Welcome. [[Applauds]] I am finally pleased to greet you in plenary after the vicissitudes that have gone through this initiative throughout several legislatures already. After this brief introduction and greeting we must ask ourselves what is the status of Law 39/2006 at present. Well, to promote personal autonomy, nothing, and to care for people in a situation of dependence, rather little. According to the report published a few days ago by the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services based on official data, one in three dependents does not receive any services or services from the Care System to the Unit even though they are entitled to them. But the cruelest figure, which shows the failure of these ten years of law enforcement, is that about 150,000 dependent persons with recognized rights have died in the last five years without having received any benefits or services, given the latter's opinion of the Unit's Observatory. This brings out a daily figure, ladies and gentlemen, of more than eighty dead who have never benefited from a law torn by cuts. In this context, last August, the agreement between the People's Party and Citizens was signed, the investment agreement, which reflected points 57 to 60, which envisaged strengthening the Unit's Care System so that it would have a more agile management and with greater emphasis on prevention, the ongoing evaluation of the system in collaboration with the Autonomous Communities to ensure minimum standards of quality, and most importantly with regard to today's issue: the level of resources allocated to the system prior to 2012. So far well; however, on December 14, all parliamentary groups supported the proposal of the Association of Directors of Social Services to reverse the cuts with the sole exception of the People's Party, which did not sign the agreement. In August yes and in December no, so the question is obvious, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: Are dependence also lentils? Are they lentils the addiction, Mr. Martinez-Maillo? Yeah? Too bad. [[Applauds]] Let us be clear in your intervention whether or not we are going to implement these agreements because on the subject of dependence there is no excuse that there is not a sufficient majority, as they will be able to see today. A decade ago the adoption of the law, the time has come to review and update it, there are many keys to take into account: financing, waiting lists, reduction of aid and the fact that the exception has ended up becoming the norm; I am referring to that more than half of the economic aid is for families when this should be the exception and only if the institutional network of services cannot provide such support. All this must be discussed carefully because, as I say, the time has come to review the law and the relevant working group must be set up in order to be able to assess and review it in depth. Today it is important to focus on the copayo, which is the object of the ILP; copayo which was provided for by law but which has not been the subject of the regulatory development corresponding to these ten years. This has led to large inequalities between the dependents because of the territory. The fact that the Autonomous Communities are financing the dependency system by 80% has had a serious effect on the co-operatives. In practice, that lack or bad initial design of the funding model has ended with greater involvement and responsibility of the autonomous communities and, as a result, a greater increase in co-sponsorship, and allow me to make a point here. Mr Olòriz, if we talk about true republican fraternity, we understand it as being that rights are inherent in people and not in territories, so we fight so much in Citizens against inequalities caused by reason of territory. [[Applauds]] In the words of the proponents of the initiative, in some cases the co-sponsor comes to assume not a participation but, as Don Luis Cayo Pérez Bueno said in the Commission, a genuine purchase of the right. In other cases, it expels the dependents of the system if they cannot cope with the cost of the benefit and, as he said, it is a punishment for the dependents with their own income, to the extent that it discourages work and discourages so much personal autonomy, which, let us not forget, was the first aspiration of the law. We believe that the Citizens' Parliamentary Group - that is why we will vote in favour of taking this initiative into consideration - should review and implement the co-op element on a regulatory basis. We think it is right that the economic capacity of the beneficiary of the right be taken into account in determining his participation in the cost of the right, that is, his income and his assets. We also think it is appropriate to set limits, an exemption or a ceiling on economic capacity below which you will be exempted from participating in that co-op and maximum ceilings for participation in it in order to prevent the acquisition of a confiscation character. However, we reserve the possibility - as it cannot be otherwise - of tabling amendments aimed at enriching and improving the text once the scope of these limits has been studied, to see whether they are the most appropriate and ultimately the most just. I end by calling for the reflection of all the administrations involved in the system of dependence. We have to stop thinking about short-term savings. We need to focus on policies to promote personal autonomy. Investing in prevention and personal autonomy, in addition to preventing situations of dependency, is also saving in dependency. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u20	Thank you very much. Mrs Alba Goveli has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u21	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go. Firstly, I wanted to begin by congratulating, on behalf of my group, the representatives of Cermi and all those who, after all, have promoted this proposal and have worked to get to this point and we can discuss it today in plenary. It is always a joy to be able to discuss in this House a popular legislative initiative. I wanted to thank you, therefore, for your hard work and tireless work to this point. I say this because we are perfectly aware of how complicated it can be for any collective, for the citizenry as a whole, to get a proposal to this end. This should, in passing, invite us to reflect on all of us who make up this House on how we could facilitate this process. Above all - and here I am advancing the main reason why we are going to support admission through this initiative - on how we can ensure that, once all the proposals resulting from the tireless work of civil society come here, it is an obligation of this House not only to debate them but also to take them into consideration. The subject before us today is no small matter. In the Spanish State there are 2 million people in a situation of dependence, that is, people who need the attention of others or important help to carry out basic activities of daily life, or people who need some kind of support for their personal autonomy. In this regard, the Act on the Promotion of Personal Autonomy and Care for Dependent Persons, which we know as the Dependent Act, represented a major step forward, even with its deficits and limitations, such as the fact that section 18.1 has ceased to be an exception to become almost the norm, particularly affecting women who have dependants, who see very limited opportunities to have time to devote themselves to something other than the care of the dependent. Despite this, in general, we are very clear that this law was a first step; an important first step. But the People's Party government, instead of taking advantage of this point of departure on which to move further, preferred to step back, preferred to take steps back, so they approved Royal Decree-Law 20/2012 which, on the one hand, reduced the economic benefits of caregivers and family caregivers by 15% and restricted retroactive payments, and, on the other hand, revised the co-payment by introducing new criteria for assessing the economic capacity of users. This has left us, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, with 400,000 people on the waiting list, more than 150,000 people who have died in the last five years without receiving the benefits or services that had already been recognized by the extension of the six-month to two-year periods, with 170,000 people out of social security contributions and, of them again, 146,000 were women, without forgetting the cut of almost €4 billion in dependency. He mentioned the copayo, which is estimated at 20% of the total direct expenditure of the system. These contributions are to the limit, ladies and gentlemen; they have meant a serious reduction in the wealth of dependent people. This is precisely what concerns us about the proposal contained in this ILP, because while we are clear that it can lead to a small improvement, we believe that it can result in the legitimization of a system such as that of the co-sponsor and ultimately fuelling the desire for privatization in the area of dependence that is proving that the party has in the Government. This proposal calls for co-payment to be established on the basis of economic capacity and a number of other criteria, so that people earning more than €1,300 per month must pay for part of the care they receive in support of the unit. We believe that by legitimizing the copayo, naturalizing it, we open the door to the destruction of a system that should be universal and guarantee a subjective right. The co-payment in the field is to agree to pay again for public services that we already pay among all through taxes. We cannot play with the rights of those who, because of their dependence, require the services provided by the public administration, because, ladies and gentlemen, autonomy is a right, it is not a privilege of those who have sufficient income to allow it. In our view, the Dependency Act, without any doubt, needs urgent reform, that is clear, but we believe that the first step of this reform should be the repeal of Royal Decree 20/2012 and ensure, through General Budgets of the State, that all cuts in dependency are reinstated, and also immediately. What we cannot allow, ladies and gentlemen, is that it is the dependent people or their families who are the Paliens, who make up their pockets for the dependent cuts made by the People's Party. Our commitment to dependent people is very clear, and so is our commitment to democracy and citizen participation. That is why they have our support for this ILP to be taken into consideration. We will then table our amendments along the lines of our proposals today. Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u22	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Navarro Lacoba.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u23	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to welcome the Spanish Committee of Representatives of Persons with Disabilities and other entities that constitute Cermi, such as ONCE, Plenary Inclusion and others, who are accompanying us this afternoon. Sit in your house, because this is definitely your house. [[Applauds]] The Cermi has been a key interlocutor in social dialogue, has been the creator of social achievements and achievements for persons with disabilities, and the People's Party is very clear that it wants to go hand in hand with this entity, which not only has our support in this popular legislative initiative for its handling and consideration this afternoon in the House, but we are working especially on those demands that come from the Cermi, such as the right to vote for persons with disabilities, access to motherhood for women with disabilities or who have social jurisdiction over dependency conflicts that will be discussed this week in the Committee on Health and Social Affairs, at the initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group. That is our full support and commitment to the Cermi and the proposing committee. My group wants to refer to two fundamental things. First, this bill emanates from a popular legislative initiative. Do you know what shows that a popular legislative initiative comes to the House, as provided for in the 1978 Constitution in its article 87 and whose exercise is carried out by Organic Law 3/1984? That the laws emanate from the people, which the people have much to say, not only through their representatives here in this House, freely elected. Secondly, do you know what that means? That we have a democracy that is alive, and not just that, but that we have a constitutional system that works, despite what is currently fashionable. This initiative is also the first in the social field to enter the House. What does that mean? That citizens, civil society, are influencing the political agenda. Five years ago this was unthinkable. The welfare society was staggering towards water. What the People's Party had to do was focus absolutely on saving the welfare society and preserving it so that, as we know it today, our children and our children know it, because that is the fundamental obligation that politicians have. Today we are in a situation of economic recovery, of exit from the crisis. Thanks to who? Thanks to the efforts of all the Spaniards, who have put their granite sand so that today we find ourselves in this situation, so that this initiative has strength and enters the House. This effort by all Spaniards, whom the People's Party knew very well, gave rise to two laws of the X Legislature - the one led by President Rajoy - the Third Sector Law and the Volunteer Law, to give these entities, such as Cermi, guarantee, identity and sustainability. We bet on the most important thing Spain has, which are the Spanish and their solidarity. Citizens wanted to say, since he has insisted so much on his intervention, that the People's Party goes by the hand of all entities and not only to the dictate of some partisan entities that have a point of view That is a point of view to take into account, but there are many more that we will also have to take into account. This proposal for a law that brings to the House the Cermi calls for the amendment of the Dependency Act, Law 39/2006, which also counted on the favorable vote of the People's Party; a law that focused especially on the care of people, an area of social protection that until then revolved around the dependents, the disabled and the elderly. Well, today it focuses on all people who, by any circumstance and by various nature, cannot carry out the basic activities of daily life. In addition, it was an innovation in the normative field to coordinate two principles: the competence of the autonomous communities in the provision of social services - according to article 148 of the Constitution - and which the State reserves - according to article 149 - dictate the guarantees that are necessary for the equal exercise of the rights of all Spaniards, regardless of the point of Spanish territory. That was the novelty of this law; the State designs the law - the law of dependence, it is said, was invented by the State, it was designed by the State and the autonomous communities - and today it is managed by the autonomous communities. It was the perfect formula with which the Socialist Party always manages: the I invite you to pay. And here is the crux of the issue, which the autonomous communities will have to say in this regard. I was surprised to hear the PNV deputy that this was a law that led to an invasion of competence of the autonomous communities and that he was going to vote against it. Is it that the minimum income does not invade competences? Because then you did vote in favour. Moreover, in this case, the public authorities, not only civil society, are also absolutely concerned about dependence. As a result, the Conference of Presidents led by our President Rajoy last January resulted in the creation of a working group to study autonomous financing and a study committee to analyse the situation of dependence and its financing. Therefore, our vote will be in favour of taking account of the handling of this proposal for a law. Green light, that starts the game, processing, but this can't be a blank check. I know that Cermi understands this and I ask the rest of the political forces to cooperate with the same responsibility. We need to reach an agreement on the financing of autonomous communities because if we do not remain in what the Socialist Party imposed in 2007. That requires agreement, consensus and dialogue among all political groups. In addition, Act No. 39/2006 of the Unit will be amended in the light of the conclusions emerging from that work commission in which seven autonomous communities of different political colours are represented. We have to wait for its conclusions in order to make progress in the process of amending Law 39/2006, because they have a lot to say and have a lot to contribute. The copago, no matter how hard it is, was not invented by the People's Party. This was a law that was born with many shortcomings that suffered from the Socialist Party but also inherited from the People's Party. The Member of the Socialist Party was now in favour of the protection of women who turn to care for their families in order to provide them with a social security coverage and guarantee. I'm sorry to say that you left EUR 1,034 million in social security because you didn't pay the contributions. [[Applauds]] That was paid by the People's Party in 2012. They had a waiting list of more than 300,000 persons with recognized rights who had not been able to access their benefit. In addition, they had made the provision in the family environment a general focus. Do you also know what the breakdown of the application of this law was? In Castile-La Mancha, in my land, in 2012 they had budgeted only 21 million euros to pay the benefits for the unit. Do you know what the actual spending was? It was EUR 147 million, a difference of over 120 million. A debacle of this magnitude is the best sign of the socialists' game when they move away from the social and what they do is to play with the future of the citizens. [[Applauds]] It is the responsible management of the People's Party; in the DNA of the People's Party it will manage responsibly always taking care of the general interest, taking care of today's dependents but also tomorrow's dependents. A number of measures were taken by the autonomous communities within the territorial council, and as a result of this, management has been allowed today in which we have a contribution of more than EUR 4,668 million in the dependence on which the Government of Zapatero had. Do you know what that means? Seven out of every ten euros of the budget of the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs is allocated to the unit. In addition, we have reduced the waiting list to 50%; there are almost 900,000 people in the dependency system and more than 78% of them have been in the last six years, that is, during the People's Party legislature. The citizen's deputy also wanted to say that he supports us from the Constitutional Court and the Court of Auditors with his reports, which say that the central government is fulfilling 50% of the funding of the unit, which is ours. [[Applauds]] Here's a chart where you can see how the People's Party manages dependency. [[Show a chart]] Do you know who's leading it? The autonomous communities in which the People's Party governs, standing at the head of Castile and León. How sorry I am to tell you that in the tail van there are communities like Castile-La Mancha - governed by the Socialist Party -, Andalusia and Catalonia. [[Applause. - Mrs Pérez Domínguez: After four years of government]] Our management supports us, I know Cermi understands it perfectly. I call on the rest of the political forces to take responsibility, to take a look and to bring to the House the results that this committee of work is analysing what the funding of the unit will be. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u24	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u25	It is appropriate to discuss below the consideration of the proposal of the Basque Parliamentary Group to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies for the parliamentary control of parliamentary agreements without force of law. [[EAJ-PNV]] For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. All those present recall that the Government will do what it is obliged to do, and that is undoubtedly true of those mandates of the Courts that go to the State Official Gazette, i.e. legislation. Obviously, what is in the bulletin is binding on the Government, although not always; we can also find exceptions, but it is not the issue that we are going to deal with today. What it seems that this Parliament should not or cannot be responsible for is a function which, theoretically, appears constitutional, such as that of control and impulse to the executive. In short, all those resolutions that, not being part of the legislation, do indicate to the Government where it has to act, where it has to go, what it has to move towards. It is true that in a majority position in the House of Support for the Government, there are usually few initiatives coming out but we are not in those circumstances. Moreover, even if there were few, they should be taken into account. This function of in law is recognized in all parliaments and should be increasingly valued. In short, what are we referring to? For example, the general policy debate which concludes with a series of motions for resolutions by the political groups and which are voted on. Is there a way after taking control of this, to really know what the government has done during the year with each and every one of the resolutions adopted by this House in a debate that is theoretically so fundamental or so central? Also sectoral debates in which plans, programmes, specific projects can be contemplated, setting the House the majority position, or non-legislative proposals, motions, resolutions... In short, the positions of this House vis-à-vis the Government. We do not ask for anything strange with this regulatory amendment. It is not something that does not exist in any parliament in the world or that is impossible. As you see, the pretension - then I will refer more specifically to it - is quite moderate. We are not asking for anything strange because the Basque Parliament has been doing so for a long time. and if we review the origin of this resolution we will realize that it takes place through a non-law proposal of the People's Party in the Basque Parliament. It is a very successful non-law proposal which, with slight modifications, has been taken into consideration. Since then, the Basque Parliament has followed the drafting of reports with those proposals for impetus and the state of each of them. I believe that it basically has two virtues; on the one hand, it serves or is a good instrument that facilitates the work of parliamentary control, and on the other hand, it is a good instrument of self-assessment for the executive, if it is taken seriously its relationship with Parliament. What we are proposing is exactly the measure that has already been shown to be possible in other parliaments. At the beginning of each session, a report is to be submitted, assessing all those non-legislative initiatives that have been adopted by Parliament in each of its statements, from the plenary to the committees, and informing the Commission of what the Government has done or what it has not done because it has not been able to do so, which can be perfectly explained. It has not been possible to do this or we are waiting for this other to be able to act on this task or we have met with this imponderable... In short, to know that the Government receives the orders of the House. Once this report has been submitted, a representative of the Government may appear at fifteen days' notice to explain what appears in that report and to try to answer questions from parliamentarians. It also serves as documentation to generate new parliamentary initiatives, if it is understood that the Government has not complied with its mandate. It is simple, smooth and plainly this that we take our work seriously, that Parliament takes it seriously that it mandates the Government and that the Government takes it seriously that it has a mandate not to exactly fulfill a line or some absolutely specific points, such as the legislative mandate, but a line of work and a line of action. It is, in short, fulfilling what the will of the majority of the popular expression has summed up in a concrete proposal in the House. The proposal is so simple and elementary that I think it will have the majority reception of the House, so, Madam President, I conclude by saying that I hope that we can approve this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today we will talk about lentils, a dish that from a time to this part is very spread. I'll explain myself. Sometimes we have a lot of the feeling, when we go out there, that time does not pass for the PP; in fact, the PP continues to act as in the X Legislature, as if he continued to enjoy a comfortable and placid absolute majority, as if time had not passed, as if there were no majority alternatives to his. It is not his fault, it is the fault of others, of those who let Mariano Rajoy be president, of those who signed a pact with the PP that this systematically fails or of those who, with his abstention, dreamed of a useful opposition. Those are the ones who eat lentils every day; the lentils of PP's non-compliances every day, because the PP doesn't care if it doesn't have a majority as it continues to act as if it did. That is why this proposal seems to me to be of a lot of common sense, of a lot of common sense. I have just heard that the PP has already presented it in the Basque Parliament; I suppose here he will do the same and we will enjoy every month a People's Party appearance telling us what state is in what is approved here. That would be to respect this House. The opposite is not to respect this House and what is voted on in it; it would not be to respect the citizens. I imagine that this proposal will have the support of a large majority and even unanimity. That the ruling party has to explain what was approved in this House, that it says what it is doing with the GNP, with the motions, with the proposals, would show respect for all of us. In particular, I am very interested in two initiatives that were adopted with the votes of the People's Party. The first was an initiative of the Valencian Community, which you approved together with the radicals of Compromís, to adjust the investments of the General Budgets of the State to the demographic weight of the Valencians. A thing of absolute common sense. That is why we are looking forward to seeing whether your proposal for the General Budgets of the State is in line with what you approved in this House. The second is that which was adopted just three weeks ago, a motion of ours on the Mediterranean Corridor where in some way it was forced to have timetables or budget lines, ultimately to have commitments with regard to the works of the Mediterranean Corridor. I will therefore be delighted, after this proposal has been approved, to hear what stage these initiatives are in. We shall vote in favour. We like lentils, but not the People's Party lentils. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u29	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u30	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We will vote in favour of the proposed reform of the Rules of Procedure presented by the Basque Parliamentary Group, which is for the control of parliamentary agreements without force of law - non-law proposals, motions and other proposals or initiatives - which are simply important elements of debate. We believe that this parliamentary control is very important basically to know whether or not we take into account the work that Members are doing here; that we value the work that is being done in the parliamentary debate. On the basis of reports, there is talk of trying to make regulation or control over the activity and action of the Executive, about the work or debate being done. I don't trust the reports very much because they often don't get to be more than two or three, and in the end, what control itself would be lost. We believe that the proposal put forward by the Basque Parliamentary Group is necessary and that the contribution it sets out is important. See why we consider it important at this very moment, precisely because there are no absolute majorities in this legislature and therefore a large part of the work and parliamentary debate is established on the basis of agreements between minorities or agreements between simple majorities. At the moment, any decision taken both in the various committees and in plenary is based on a much deeper debate and work than simply drawing up proposals from the absolute majority. Therefore, any agreement that comes out of a job we do has a specific value. These proposals, these initiatives arise from real representativeness, from the ideological plurality of society, and must therefore be read as an opportunity. That broader view of what would be the ideological debate in Parliament, in its committees, in its work, implies that it should be spoken of as an opportunity because at that time we have a real representativeness of the debate on the street and that it should move to a space like this. That is, they have much more value for these initiatives and their final outcome than simply an absolute majority. We even have clear signs of how the Executive does not intend to take into account any more initiatives that we have adopted, such as motions or propositions not of law, but even propositions of law. Recall, for example, the appeals to the Constitutional Court on the proposed law on the change of the Lomce or the equalization of salaries of subcontractors by the Administration; referring to the veto to projects involving increased expenditure or decrease of income and affecting the General Budget of the State, they seek to break any debate and any agreement that has been established no longer of proposals not of law but of proposals of law. There is therefore no express will on the part of the Government itself. Behind this is a model of government too presidentialist, where the Legislature sees its role blurred before an omnipresent Executive. Most of the lawless initiatives are not taken into account by the Executive and this implies that the whole effort of the sectoral debate and the political plurality that has been worked out since plenary itself and the commissions is reduced to the minimum expression at the time of their actual incorporation in the consideration. Look at what image the citizens of the work we make here can have. Citizens make the effort to transfer the debates they consider necessary to the different groups, the groups transfer their concerns to the committees or to the plenary and although, after a often titanic effort, agreement is reached on these lawless initiatives and they end up being adopted, often all this remains in water of drunkards and therefore they have no force at all. How we then explain to the citizens that all that effort, all that work that we Members have done to move their voice here has not been successful. Look at the impact it has on them somehow. What diagnosis would we make of this? Indeed, this represents little respect for the parliamentary debate and therefore marks a deficit in parliamentary praxis. The real value of the parliamentary debate itself is not given, the value of the parliamentary debate in the drafting of laws is not given. And this is framed by a much broader deficit in the denial of the culture of debate, of agreement; the debate is rejected; the debate is allowed but not that the outcome of the debate is transferred to the legislative level and this implies a lack of commitment to the agreements it sets out in that debate. It is really a subject of praxis and democratic culture. Look at the importance of the work we do in Parliament, which is, on the one hand, a basic pillar of the democratic debate and, on the other hand, of the representation of the ideological and territorial plurality of the State itself. Therefore, any initiative working in this area is one of the basic pillars of the democratic construction of what we are working on. To put our role as Members in the political debate to the fore must be one of those functions, and we believe that what this proposal does is to try to influence that aspect. One of the causes of the situation in Catalonia, of the situation of the request for independence or of the creation of a new State, of a republic, is precisely the repeated failure to comply with agreements. The repeated breach of agreements has caused citizens to somehow perceive this as an aggravation or a lack of respect for decisions, to the political debate that then, at the time of truth, does not reach anywhere. Therefore, bear in mind that the debate that we have here, if it does not really have a direct consequence, a direct exercise on legislation, ends up having repercussions so that citizens perceive that the work we do has no role. We believe that it is important that this or any initiative really strengthens the control of that parliamentary debate that many of us do day-to-day in both the plenary and the committees themselves. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u31	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u32	Good afternoon. President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the reform of the Rules of Procedure proposed by the Group of the Basque Nationalist Party, concerning initiatives with a function of political orientation, allow me to focus, at the outset, on the most common or the most important, non-legislative proposals. I want to say that in the light of both the Rules of Procedure and the House's own activity, GNP is not anything, it is proposals that are formulated by the House to resolve something; the Bureau of Congress decides on its admissibility taking into account the importance of the issue. Amendments can be tabled, which are being discussed; the purpose of the GNPs is being discussed, action can be taken here - one representative from each group does so - and they are put to the vote. I repeat, they are not anything and, moreover, in the first six months of this parliamentary term, a quarter of the GNP registered during President Rajoy's first term had already been submitted. So not only did we take it seriously, but we go twice as much. In the XII Legislature, which is the current one, to give us an idea of the figures we are talking about, 347 GNP have been presented to the plenary and 1,490 in the Commission, as well as 18 motions resulting from urgent calls and 2 objectives of budgetary stability. Total, 1,857 initiatives contrasting with a number of legislative proposals submitted by 76. In the X Legislature, the legislature of the absolute majority of the People's Party, completed - to compare the figures - we find a total of 5,481 initiatives. Therefore - I repeat - they are not anything, it seems that we all take them seriously and that we take them more and more seriously. With regard to the specific content of the reform proposed by the Basque Nationalist Party, we are told that it is intended to strengthen the control of the executive and to promote political action from Parliament, which seems to me to be laudable. His explanatory statement explains to us that the current regulation - which should be amended - makes it impossible to see whether or not the government is taking non-legislative mandates into account and that this can lead to a loss of Parliament. I agree. If that were the case - if we did not pay the least attention to non-legislative mandates and if we were producing thousands of documents, debating them, discussing them, amending them, negotiating them and approving them, and then remaining in nothing - this house would indeed be undermined. Two things are basically proposed in the reform of the Basque Group: firstly, an Article 203a which stipulates that during the first working month of each session the Government shall forward to the House a detailed report on the status and degree of compliance with each of these initiatives and, secondly, that a representative of the Executive to explain this report will appear before the Committee on Rules of Procedure in the fortnight following the entry into the Chamber of that report. Therefore, this is the state of affairs and the proposal. How do we analyse this reform proposed by the Basque Group? Firstly, and from a broad, theoretical point of view, Parliament's control of the government seems positive and desirable. In a more practical sense, we find it undeniable that parliamentary control has fallen worryingly during the last legislatures, and let us not say during the last one, where no parliamentary control of the Government was directly accepted. And in the previous one, as I said, the same thing happened because of an interpretation of the absolute majority, which I was going to say is quite particular, but in view of the contemporary democratic history of Spain it is not quite particular, but it is customary in situations of absolute majority. So can this boost regeneration, can this strengthen the system of checks and balances, can it increase our democratic quality? Yes, in the event that what is proposed to us is feasible. Let's see. As I said before, we are faced with a very high number of initiatives, but those are not the approved initiatives. Therefore, please distinguish between those figures which are so high as to be given above and those which actually relate to non-legislative initiatives adopted. If we go to these, we will see: GNP approved without amendment in plenary, 4; GNP approved with amendment in plenary, 14; GNP approved without amendment in committees, 50; and GNP amended in committees, 159; motions for urgent appeals approved without amendment, 3; and motions for amendments, 10. Therefore, a total of 240 non-law proposals, motions and resolutions; it comes out to about 80 initiatives per month. If we take into account that the sessions - which is what we are talking about - are eight months a year, it is not only feasible, it is perfectly feasible, it does not place any special burden on the Government, with the resources it has, nor is it particularly hard to do this work of accountability. There is one doubt, which has to do with the faith that we have in our own system, if as much as the reports are presented and the degree of compliance and the state are refreshed, this will make a real and effective contribution to parliamentary control and will no longer be in a position to undermine this Parliament with the majority of resolutions it adopts. I believe it has to do with the democratic quality that we have already achieved. Linking is not going to be; the Government will explain itself, the Government will be accountable, but it will remain unbinding on what has been approved in this way. Therefore, only in a mature democracy, with a system of public opinion and where free criticism is diversified and not focused on fashion issues in the media, only in these circumstances, this better knowledge and monitoring of initiatives with a function of political orientation will result in greater degrees of commitment of the Executive and, therefore, of compliance, but of compliance through conviction and pressure of opinion, not because it is legally binding, that is, that it will be fulfilled by degree, but will be fulfilled. I wish Spain was that mature democracy. Trusting that it will, we will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u33	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, I have the floor, Mrs Salud Areste.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. We are dealing with an initiative which aims to amend, on a timely basis, the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies. The PNV has proposed that we can somehow control the Government's continued non-compliance with the non-legislative motions and proposals passed by this Parliament. In the beginning, the vast majority seem bored with regulations and rules; no one pays too much attention to them, yet any collective in any area, from the neighborhood to this Congress, needs a regulation and rules that regulate its functioning. There is usually the skeleton of the functioning of institutions and changing these rules can help us transform them. They are important rules for coexistence and also for conflict, and they regulate relationships. Institutions such as this, Congress, whose aesthetic symbolism so much refers us today to monarchy, patriarchy and Christianity, undoubtedly express the ideology of the ruling class, that of you. These are rules that express a greater or lesser degree of participation, democracy, transparency, agility in processes and effectiveness, and to this I would also like to refer today to democracy and effectiveness. We are dealing with an amendment which, although timely, is very important to our group. It affects one of the parliamentary initiatives - as has already been said - most used in Congress and the one that has less effectiveness, if not almost none, beyond advertising a conflict or a proposal, beyond acting as a speaker and trying to exercise some public control over the Government. Here all your ladies and gentlemen know what a GNP is, a non-legislative proposal. We have made many motions, too, but perhaps citizens are not so clear about what we mean when we talk about GNP, and it may be appropriate to explain this because we have spent many hours drafting them, following the demand of a collective or following a claim or initiative of our own. We have met with the affected groups. We've been looking for information. We have prepared the text of the initiative. We have recorded it, sometimes accompanied by the people concerned. We talked to the press. We have transmitted a message, a demand to society. We have moved on to the stage of the debate in the Commission and also in this plenary, with amendments, some accepted and others not; with interventions in favour and against, and finally many of them have been approved by the majority of this House. It then appears in the media, on the front pages of the big newspapers, with great headlines: The Plenary Congress approves such a thing. It's all very well. And then the people on the street ask us, especially those people to whom it directly affects: And when will this agreement come into force? So we face reality and say to them, "Well, look, no, you see, it's a GNP, an initiative that doesn't force the government to implement it, not even if the government has approved it. This is terrible and puts us in front of our own mirror. Then the people end up saying to us, "Then why do you do this? What is the use of a PNL?" And we may have to recognize today, here and now, looking into our eyes, that something is right. Much time devoted to GNP, motions, resolutions; much work for so little fruit; many hours, ladies and gentlemen. Do you not believe that it is time for us to address the modification, but seriously, of this in-depth initiative to make it really useful? Because this initiative presented by the PNV points to a serious problem of our parliamentarianism that needs to be remedied: the express mandates of the Legislature to the Executive in the form of motions or GNP are often not fulfilled, that is the problem. In other words, the Government, in a parliamentary minority situation - even more serious if it can - is not complying with what Congress orders it to do, this is the reality. It is inconclusive to approved motions, which remain at the symbolic level with the consequent disconcertingness of the citizenry, which looks at us with very open eyes. PNLs are thought and limited - indeed - as an element of parliamentary impetus to government action, yes, but at the same time no control, no sanction on their non-compliance is envisaged. This House expresses the will of the people and the Government, however, tells us this and then ignores it; yes, ignores it. And also ignore it justly, by chance or by interest, for all those initiatives that defend the interests of the working social majority of our country, this is the truth. Mr Rajoy has never ruled over the majority, his government is at the service - we know - of the powerful minorities, the elites and the banking; for this you simply govern. That the government stops ignoring the people was a great demand that was manifested and spread throughout our country and that brought us many of us and us to the House, when in the streets it was shouted, "Don't represent us!" Then we understood that this parliamentaryism should be changed from the root. Laugh, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. That is why our Confederal Group has already begun the work necessary to radically reform the Rules of Procedure and which welcomes a more democratic and citizen-related political representation; a modification that ensures an effective separation of powers, with a law that really counts, capable of effectively controlling the Executive and of passing laws that are the result of an agile, attractive and rigorous discussion. And that aspiration, that of reforming this rigid and obsolete regulation that we have, is key to turning this House into a genuine area of deliberation, a participatory engine and a frank support for a new political culture, that is what we want. That is why we want to strengthen Parliament in the face of the role of the present government, of any government, because we do not want any more parliamentary legislation without Parliament, we do not want that. We bet on greater citizen participation, an opening of organised civil society, learn to listen to the street directly, let's give it a voice among the carpets and tapestries of these rooms. Let us give people a voice; let us also establish greater transparency; let us reduce the complexity of parliamentary procedures, which people understand us; let us reduce bureaucracy by speeding up the processes and the legislative technique, just as most lawyers and experts in this field are already advising us. Let us improve deliberation as a fundamental element, as a respectful reflection of the plurality of the country that we would have to be. Less rigid, more agile debates with less advantages for the Government. We want to increase the role of control over the Government, of course, by introducing clear controls to avoid the Government's interference with a mandate from this House, from Congress. We also want to introduce ethical codes, we want to renew the symbolic space of this palace; we want to renew it, of course. Let's put the political history of women, the political history of anti-fascist people and the political history of the democratic people of this country where they deserve it. Let us make them visible in the aesthetics of this Parliament, which are not. It is time, in the 21st century, for you to be here, it is time for you to be visualized. And in all this spirit we also want to work with other parliamentary groups. We call for this successful but insufficient proposal from the Basque Parliamentary Group not to remain in a mere process of partial improvement of the Rules of Procedure - which will also be good - but to help us build a more democratic parliament that is more linked to the citizens we say and intend to represent. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u35	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ciscar Casabán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of my group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to express its position on this proposal for a law put forward by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]] The proposal, which is appropriate, proposes a reform of the Rules of Procedure in order to introduce a new article with two forecasts. The first, as set out by Mr Esteban, is to refer to the House at the beginning of the session a report on the status and degree of compliance with each of the non-legislative proposals, motions and resolutions adopted by both the plenary and the committees. Secondly, a representative of the Executive will appear next to explain the above-mentioned report and to respond to the requests of the groups. This proposal - as I say, appropriate - is not new but necessary. In 2003, the Socialist Parliamentary Group put forward a proposal for a comprehensive reform of the House's Rules of Procedure which included an article which read as follows: Before the beginning of each session, the Government will report to the House by means of a written report on the degree and manner of implementation of the motions for resolutions adopted by the House since the beginning of the legislature concerning the action of the Government or matters within its competence. In the next parliamentary term, the reform work that took place in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure also included a similar forecast of what would have to be the reform of the Rules of Procedure. It was true that it referred exclusively to the submission of the report and did not expressly provide for attendance, but in turn it could be requested in the relevant committees, where the subject matter had a more direct relationship. These reform proposals did not succeed, which did not prevent the Socialist Government in the VIII Legislature from submitting three reports on the same subject from 2004 to 2007, although it had not been introduced into the Rules of Procedure. Subsequently, in 2009, the People's Parliamentary Group, when governing the Socialist Party, proposed an initiative for the first time also introducing or purporting to introduce this rule into the Rules of Procedure. While maintaining it, it did not take place until 2011, when it was adopted. But despite the initiative that the People's Party had proposed and adopted in 2011, similar to that which Mr Esteban had previously said existed in the Basque Parliament, when he arrived at the Government he forgot it even though it had been adopted not as a reform of the Rules of Procedure but as a motion for a resolution in this Parliament. Therefore, in spite of this, we are entering a situation in which the absolute majority was essentially used, not only - which is legitimate - to oppose initiatives of all kinds that were put forward here, but also to make the appearances where the intended initiatives were explained very small. On 105 occasions, therefore, the President of the Government appeared before Parliament, 59 of them at the initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. And of these 105 initiatives, only 5 were admitted and subsumed into 2 that were essentially subsumed in an appearance on 8 May 2013 and also on 1 August 2013. This basically reduced the possibility of appearing, of reporting on the situations produced. Subsequently, the Vice-President of the Government was requested by the Constitutional Commission to report on this situation. He was asked by the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group: What was that laudable initiative when you came to the government? Do you now intend to be consistent and to recover it in order to take the measures that were established in your day in this regard and signed by you? I have to say that there was no answer at the time to this question which was put to the Vice-President at the beginning of this parliamentary term in the Constitutional Commission. Therefore, the initiative that we are considering today is necessary, useful and, while it is timely - and I also endorse the words that my predecessor has indicated from this rostrum on the need for further reform, a comprehensive reform of the Rules of Procedure, adjusting it to the needs, to the centrality that this House must represent - my group will support the consideration of this reform proposal, although some of its aspects will undoubtedly merit further reflection on the procedure that will be opened from this moment on, and above all on the desirability, the need that the House can appreciate in order to promote at the moment, and in agreement with the parliamentary groups, an appropriate reform that will respond to the current needs in the area of the Rules Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u37	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Borrego Cortés.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u38	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I say that my group is going to vote in favour of taking this initiative into consideration. I'm going to explain why. The Basque Group is proposing a new initiative to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House. A few days ago, the People's Group also presented in the register an amendment to the Regulation in another sense: the regulation of interest groups. Why am I taking him out? Because we're rowing in the same direction. This reflects that we are in the same direction, that there is a shared atmosphere of trying to adapt the Congressional Rules, looking for mechanisms that make the work of the Legislative Power more efficient. My group is committed and fully aware of the need to seek consensus so that the House can better carry out its mission and its debates, that it is closer to social reality, that Members can better carry out their task and that this task is recognised by society. I have been in this House for a short time, but I can already acknowledge the intense work that Members do, that we do all Members of this House, and we need to improve the mechanisms for doing that job even better and for it to be recognised. These are just some of the aspects that need to be amended in the regulation - there are so many more - but it is very important that we all do so together and that we all agree. Today we are debating, as has been said, to facilitate the follow-up of decisions taken by the House that do not have the status of law; as the proposer has said, the others are published in the BOE. Of course we will vote yes, regardless of whether we will all study together, as I have told you, whether this initiative can be improved during the process to achieve the objectives we all want. We will vote yes because it is based on this proposed amendment to work in favour of policies of public transparency, open government, regeneration and democratic quality. On the subject of this initiative, it is good that we talk about two issues, transparency and the separation of powers, especially when we look at what the previous interventions have been like. Transparency is an essential element to increase citizens' confidence in public decisions and to improve the perception of political activity at the service of citizens. The Government of Mariano Rajoy and the People's Parliamentary Group are committed to its momentum and have promoted many initiatives since 2012. I would like to point out here one that has been a legislative milestone, Law 19/2013, on transparency, access to public information and good governance, which has been a milestone, as I say to you, in promoting transparency and which was mostly supported by this House. In addition, this initiative of the Basque Group is intertwined with the various initiatives that in the same sense have promoted the People's Group, inter alia, the non-legislative proposal adopted on 18 May 2010 or the motion for a resolution previously quoted by the representative of the Socialist Group. When a question is adopted in Parliament, it is to comply with it. Otherwise, citizens won't take us seriously. Citizens must be sure that the government respects this House and its decisions, but sometimes, as Mr Esteban has said, they cannot be complied with and they must and can explain why. Some Members have said before that what this House approves is not being fulfilled. What do you intend to do? Of course, the Government is fulfilling what this House says, but it has an obligation to do so within the framework of its powers. It has a responsibility to do so by seeking to ensure that the interests of citizens are central to their actions and, of course, also by respecting our international commitments. Has anyone considered the times to comply with the decisions of this House? Or do we believe that today we approve here that we have to make a tunnel in such a place and tomorrow it is already done? It has to have a budget line, there is an administrative procedure. That's all someone has to take into account. Criticisms are emerging that do not respond to reality. We have been with a fully functioning Government for a few months and are scrupulously fulfilling and seeking consensus with all political forces. What cannot be approved or brought into this House are questions of impossible compliance, with the sole aim, as they have said before, of having a headline in the press, most of the time knowing that they cannot be fulfilled. That's called cheating on citizens. The government wants to comply with what the House says, and I know very well what I'm saying. However, we must also reflect in the House, in line with this initiative, that a solid, mature and stable democracy, as we know it, requires three independent powers with different missions and none of the three must interfere with the other. The Legislature cannot replace the Executive or vice versa. The Government has the executive power and is not merely an enforcer of Congressional decisions. It has its area of responsibility, although it has an obligation to be monitored and accountable to Parliament. Madam Health, this House must control the role of the government, but it does not replace it. This does not mean that we do not debate and that we are not able to debate, understand and coordinate. Perhaps since 1977 there has not been a legislature that requires a level of agreement, dialogue and consensus such as this one will need. We are obliged to continually seek common frameworks of agreement to solve the real problems of the citizens. We must seek agreements between the groups, between the legislature and the executive, between the different administrations, and the Rules of Procedure must help those agreements and frameworks exist in order to achieve real solutions, as I have told you. The various presentations which have studied the reform of the Rules of Procedure, as the spokesman of the Socialist Group has said, have put on the table the different questions and the functions of the Courts, as regards the function of control, the budgetary function, the legislative... Already in the opinion of the Committee on Rules of Procedure of 1993 were provided for control mechanisms for the implementation of parliamentary agreements without force of law. Indeed, the role of control over the Government has opened a special debate, as it seeks a very difficult balance between governability, stability and the maximum scrutiny of the Government's activity. But I think we sometimes forget that it is not a question of quantity, it is not a question, Mr Girauta, of how many GNPs they have tabled, how many motions they have tabled; it is also a question of quality. Not only is control counted with the number of initiatives that have been introduced to control it, but with what they contain. We must also look for procedures to ensure that this control is the right one. In short, by amending the Rules as proposed, we are moving along the line marked by the Government since 2012 and imposing the obligation already existing in the Senate, provided for in its rule 178 of the Rules, as you know. The Senate expects that the Government will have to report on the implementation of the motions, although in this case it is talking about a written report, not the one that is now being raised here. In this legislature, the People's Group has a strong commitment to progress in democratic regeneration and, within it, to make the Government the centre of political life. In order to achieve this, it is important - and in that I believe we all agree - to amend and adapt the regulation to the new demands, but I think that we must never forget that the regulation is not an end in itself but a means of fulfilling the mandate of the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u39	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u40	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Matute, on the Santa María de Garoña nuclear power plant. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u41	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Get out of the way. Again here, in this House, we have the opportunity to put on the table a bloody question, the survival even today of the Santa Maria de Garoña nuclear power plant and probably another chapter in a long history. And since we are talking about chapters, let me begin with the reference to another chapter, in this case a chapter of The Simpsons. In it, the Springfield nuclear power plant receives a surprise security inspection. Mr. Burns, the owner of the plant, knowing that he does not meet the minimum security requirements, improvises an excuse: I'm sorry, gentlemen, you've made a mistake. This isn't a nuclear power plant, it's a cookie factory. I know that you will never have to take possession of such a pilgrim argument to cover up the very existence of Garoña and her obvious shortcomings. You have the Nuclear Security Council on your part; at the end of the day you name it yourself. But have you ever thought what your Mr. Burns, the President of the Nuclear Security Council, would say if he received an independent security inspection? What would you tell them when they saw that the plant was forty-seven years old, that it was built in Francoism, that it is obsolete and that it should be closed and dismantled by 2009? What would you say to them in view of the 137 known and recognized incidents collected at the Garoña plant in its years of operation? What would you tell them about a pool filled with waste that they don't know where to take because they don't know where to build that nuclear cemetery either? How would it justify their validity being this, the nuclear power plant of Santa Maria de Garoña, a vestige of the contemporary past with today's increasingly innumerable Fukushima? Would you perhaps talk to them about economic profitability? It is difficult, because for Nuclenor, in any case - and not so much because of what the Santa María de Garoña plant itself produces, which is a very small percentage of energy production, as has already been pointed out in the Commission - it does not even represent an important element in its profit accounts. Perhaps with the debate about the non-closing or non-dismantling of Santa María de Garoña there is anyone who is thinking about the possibility of keeping it open and standing by so that they can ask for something for which the State is extremely generous, the famous loss of profits, the famous compensation for what could have been won by the big companies that run it. But, as I told you, neither Endesa nor Iberdrola need - in short, they make up Nuclenor - Garoña for the viability of their companies. We talked about this in the Commission, EUR 137 million have been allocated 243 Iberdrola executives as benefits during this period. We are aware of the close relationship of some parties in this House with these companies, Iberdrola and Endesa, because we know the so honorable place they occupy on their boards of directors. It is enough as a button shows, the former Minister of the Interior, Mr Acebes, now flaming - and I suppose enlightening - member of the council of Iberdrola. We know, as I told you, of that relationship, but you owe it, in your case, to your people and your people are the citizens who are in your territory. In politics, the general interest should prevail over any other consideration, but it seems that the general interest is shaped by what safeguards the rights of citizens, which guarantees them greater protection and better quality in their lives, but also caters to social and political majorities. It seems clear and clear that the social majority, at least in our country, Euskal Herria, is against the survival and existence of the Santa María de Garoña nuclear power plant, of all nuclear power plants, and calls for its closure and dismantling. And there are also more and more institutions, such as the General Councils of Álava, the Parliament of Gazteiz and it seems that this Congress of Deputies too. The President of the Government said in reply to a question on this subject which was at an active stage of listening, that what was now up to him was to listen to what was being said and thought by different entities or entities in order to make a decision. If it is at that active stage, this Government has the opportunity to listen to the most representative House of its State, the Congress of Deputies, to proceed from there to the final closure and dismantling. To date, this government, with its president at the head, has overwhelmed us on many occasions with words - some more fortunate than others - but has shown on many more occasions that we have no word. [[Rumors]] I say this because we are talking about the health and safety of more than three million people. As a clarification, I am aware that Santa María de Garoña is located in the Tobalina Valley, which belongs to Burgos, and as no expansionist eagerness guides me - I do not share the thesis that I have heard on the Internet from a spokesperson for Citizens that Portugal is Spain and Cuba is Spain, I think it was a video of Mr Girauta - I will tell you that I do so to guarantee the health, dignity and right to a life worthy of the Basque citizens who would be potentially affected, but also of the citizens of the Spanish State. It is clear that in our people, Euskal Herria, we do not want nuclear power plants, that we did not want the nuclear power plant in Lemoniz and that we do not want any nuclear power plant, but as long as we are in the Spanish State and we can do something to prevent the consequences of a possible accident in any nuclear power plant from affecting the Basque population, our obligation is to try to add forces to close them. As I said, the right to health should be above the benefits of a few, not all of them, and it does not seem sensible for anyone to speculate whether or not to close Garoña on the basis of support or not for budgets. With time everything changes, the technologies too, the ecological consciousness grows in a finite world that we are devouring because we are not able to accompany our growth to the limits of the planet. Here what is done is to corner renewable energies. But there are attitudes that do not change. It has not changed the thinking of those who built the Garoña nuclear power plant in the middle of Francoist times as it seems not to change that of those who today are committed to keeping it open. This being the case, avoid having to have, in the event that an incident occurs again at the Santa María de Garoña nuclear power station, resort to plasticin hills as with the Prestige to justify it or, even worse, to have to put on the bather and bathe in the Ebro to emulate Fraga in Palomares. We are going to support a compromise amendment signed by the majority of groups in this House because, although it does not call for the resignation of the President of the Nuclear Security Council, it does reflect the fundamentals of the final closure, dismantling and economic reactivation. We would have liked to have included the resignation of the President of the Nuclear Security Council because, as I said in the Committee and in order to link up with the start of my speech, Homer Simpson deserves more reliability in handling these matters than the President of the Nuclear Security Council himself. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u42	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by each group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea intervenes, first of all, by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u43	Thank you. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. The debate on Garoña is back on the street. Thus, we find headlines such as, for example, 'Garoña: The strange case of nuclear that no one wants to reopen' or 'Garoña or retirement at the age of sixty'. [[case]] It is a rabid debate today, especially for two reasons: for the opinion of the Nuclear Security Council in favour of its reopening and because, in the end, it is the Government that must or must not authorize such reopening. We advocate for a non-rotundo to Garoña. It is true that it should have been definitively closed long ago for old, dangerous and unnecessary, especially for the energy mix, because it is already amortized and, moreover, because it is demanded by society and institutions. A number of non-legislative proposals adopted by the Basque Parliament and motions of the General Councils of Álava have been presented as examples. Garoña is a first-generation nuclear power plant that has exceeded its expiry date, so extending its lifespan would pose an insurmountable security risk. In short, security cannot be subject in any case to particular economic or even political interests. The Santa María de Garoña nuclear power plant is the oldest in the Spanish nuclear park in 1971, and has already completed its life cycle: forty years. It's an obsolete, unsafe and unnecessary power plant. Santa María de Garoña is a small power plant, about 460 megawatts - the equivalent of 1.4 of the total power generation power of the electricity system - and has not produced electricity since 2012. It has therefore been shown over the years that it is absolutely indispensable for the Spanish electricity system, since it has not perceived this deficiency. As we have said, it has been in permanent cessation since 2013, once the licence to operate expired. The issuance of the opinion in favour of the reopening of Garoña by the Nuclear Security Council and, therefore, granting a new licence for its operation until 2031 would mean bringing a nuclear reactor up to sixty years of service life and an administrative authorization of seventeen consecutive years instead of the ten that have so far been granted. But the most serious thing is that when the property requested its reopening, the Nuclear Security Council itself conditioned it to comply with a series of improvements or measures related to plant safety: a new gas detection system, physical separation of cables, insulations, roof protection of turbines. Following these demands, the opinion, as I said, is favourable and gives the green light to its reopening, but it is an opinion that we do not understand because the plant has not made those improvements established by the Nuclear Security Council itself, so we believe that it should not have issued a report in favour of the reopening of Garoña, because it goes against the measures that the Nuclear Security Council itself demanded. The supervisor has failed to comply with the rules that he himself set for issuing his report. Contradictory, isn't it? It is true that the Nuclear Security Council has no decision-making capacity, but gives the necessary arguments for the Government to take one or another decision. Will the Government take a decision contrary to that of the Nuclear Security Council? That is what we ask the Government to take the opposite decision, the closure of Garoña. This opinion is not only talking about Garoña, but what is ultimately being proposed is the extension of the lives of the rest of the nuclear power plants beyond 40 years and, therefore, the possible energy stake also for the nuclear power plants in the event that the Government authorizes such an opening. We are in favour of putting in place the necessary measures to proceed with the definitive closure of Garoña, to undertake its process of dismantling in safety conditions and, therefore, to activate an economic recovery plan for the area of influence of Santa María de Garoña, including also within this area some municipalities of Álava and Guipuzcoa. We will therefore support the non-law proposal negotiated at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u45	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I agree with our illustrious colleague Oskar Matute and with what his GNP says; according to what will be negotiated, by Garoña herself, which is what he prays in the submitted GNP, but also - and I think that at this point nobody is hidden - because where Garoña also says Almaraz, let us put it by chance. Because in the end what indicates the hesitation of the government is only its subjection to the plans of the great electrics and to the perpetuation of their business at the expense of all. Having said that, and if I may say so, I will say four questions which will seem to you to be close, but which do nothing but reaffirm the thesis that I have just proposed. In the short term, except in the case of the Ebro power stations, the deputy for Tarragona Don Jordi Salvador in the Committee on Energy, with the help of an unusual unanimity and on the understanding that the government will take a good and carry out what is asked of it when a GNP is approved - a matter which is magnificently discussed in the previous item on the agenda - is resolved a little bit, except in this case there are many examples of unupdated nuclear safety plans, with the consequent risk to the population. God frees us from a mini Fukushima in some regions!, for such silly topics as telephone coverage, evacuation roads... It is not being approached seriously either with rigor or intelligence; I would say that plans are not being addressed for the reindustrialization of the dependent core regions on the horizon of denuclearization, simply because it is not due to denuclearization. In the medium term nuclear power also generates CO2 and one day it will be necessary to stop listening to the gurus to pay more attention to what the engineers say; the argument of the carbonic safety of nuclear power has fewer adherents every day. And one question: What will we do with the waste? They designed a model forty years ago that they now intend to express until the sixties. That would mean roughly - and for that you don't have to be an engineer - a third more waste. What do we do? Shall we reopen the Villar de Cañas debate? Shall we get the ATIs out of the joke? Do you really believe that it is serious that such a far-reaching debate is backed up by the faits accompli? In the long term, in the big debate on the 2030 horizon, which is the energy transition, the Government lets the urgent go ahead of the important and does not show us what its plan is for the implementation of an electricity system presided over by clean and safe energies, if it has ever contemplated that possibility, which I begin to doubt. It also trembles at the possibility of the democratisation of the electricity market. It would seem, ladies and gentlemen, that I have not spoken of Garoña. But believe me, I haven't stopped doing it all this time. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevilla. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u47	President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that I have a déjà vu and I say it well - I do not know if it looks like it or what it is - because we have been debating the same thing for many weeks. In fact, last week we discussed this issue again and I am going to focus on the speech of what is going to be voted on, which is ultimately the same compromise that was voted on last week. As I think that everyone can be more or less fed up with this debate, which in the end seems to never come to an end, I will try to be as illustrative as possible for all those colleagues who are not in the Energy Committee. The Garoña nuclear power plant opened in 1971. It is a twin plant that had the accident in Fukushima and its installed power is 466 megawatts. [[Shows a table on installed power of Garoña and Asco II]] Why teach her? Because the next smaller one has 1,027 electric megawatts, which is that of Ascó II. What does this mean? That if we relate it to the Spanish nuclear park, it is a very, very small power plant and that nothing has influenced that there is any kind of instability in today's energy system. In addition, we are going to make a story of what has happened to Garoña and why I repeat that we continue to have déjà vu. [[Shows another table on the life of the Garoña nuclear power plant]] In 1971 Garoña opened, as I said before; in 2009 the Socialist Party, ruled by Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, extended its useful life until 2013. In 2011 it is the Fukushima accident, with which the Nuclear Security Council increases the security requirements that the company that manages and owns Garoña has to make: investments valued at more than 100 million euros to remain open. In 2012 the People's Party revoked the closing decree proposed by the Nuclear Security Council because the relevant investments had not been made and that same year the company requested the revocation; come on, it does not want to open, it wants to close the plant. In 2013 it finally closes. Why this? Because I will also remember statements from the ruling party at that time. The spokesman for the People's Party, Mr Hernando, said that it was absolutely incomprehensible that this nuclear power station wanted to focus voluntarily because, according to its owners, it was not profitable. In addition, the Minister of Energy at the time, Mr Soria, said that it was a gross blackmail to the government, a pressure from the owners of that plant to close down. The reality is that the plant closed because they wanted to close, because they claimed that it was not profitable, and that absolutely nothing happened. Nothing happened, the supply did not fall, there was no energy supply problem in this country. After the closure of the company, Nuclenor - as you know, has two participants - asks the Nuclear Security Council to create a report for the reopening of this plant. We remembered, the reopening was not profitable in business terms. On 16 April 2015, the Nuclear Security Council issued a technical opinion stating that if security investments are not made, which are essential, that report on the reopening of the plant cannot be given a green light. In November 2016, the President of the Nuclear Security Council said that the report on the reopening of Garoña would be frozen until security investments were made. Three months later the report comes to light, we approve the reopening of the central station in Garoña; moreover, it is a report that feels precedent, since the investments have not been made and we also know that one of the owners in Nuclenor form says that he has no interest in reopening the central station. Is there therefore any independence of this country's Nuclear Security Council? You can't close what's closed; the plant is closed because they wanted to close it; it wasn't profitable. Of course, we ask the Government not to think about reopening this plant, much less if the security investors that the Nuclear Security Council itself has repeatedly demanded have not been made. Are we trying to reopen the power station - because this is the focus of the debate - or is it trying to set a precedent for a kick forward, towards the debate that will begin in a few years? This is the age of this country's nuclear park, and it will be from 2020 when you have to decide what will happen to it. [[shows a table with data on the age of nuclear power plants]] A precedent has been set: the Nuclear Security Council has politicized or attempted to dictate this country's energy policy. That is why everyone knows that we are looking for a depoliticized Nuclear Security Council. What we are dealing with today is that we intervene in that area so that it does not become depressed, that it can be rehabilitated or that an alternative can be created. It is necessary to talk about security, it is necessary to talk about energy model, of energy transition, but what is not necessary in any way is to try, through advice that should be technical and independent, to set precedents on the energy future of this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u49	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the other day, in this very House, the spokesman for our group asked the President of the Government how many isolated cases of corruption are needed for corruption to be considered. For in this case, in the case of the Garoña nuclear power plant, we also wonder how many absolute majorities it takes for the government to heed what the citizenry is demanding, because what we are living with this nuclear power plant has no match in Spain or the rest of the world. The other day, in the city of Vitoria, which is 40 kilometers straight from the Garoña nuclear power plant, a human chain was called to protest against the possible reopening of the power plant. There were so many people on the streets that the human chain couldn't be made. 150 people were expected and, according to the media, there were about 5,000 people. What's this all about? For there is a huge concern in the citizenry, in the public opinion, about what is happening. And it is normal that there is that concern because we are talking about a power plant, as has already been said, in 1971, an old, dangerous and obsolete power plant; a nuclear power plant that has not contributed a single kilowatt to the network in the last four years. But what we are discussing here is not really the future of the Garoña nuclear power plant, what is behind is what is going to happen to the Spanish nuclear power plants, to the nuclear park, which is ageing at an aggravated rate and the Government and the nuclear industry have a strategy to bring forward the extension of the life of nuclear power plants. This strategy consists of three fundamental axes: one of them is Garoña, which we are talking about today; the second is radioactive waste and the third is to lower the legal safety conditions of nuclear power plants. On radioactive waste, part of this strategy for the extension of the life of power plants goes through the construction of a nuclear waste dump in Villar de Cañas and in this they are, despite all the legal and technical obstacles that are being encountered. Due to these legal obstacles, cemeteries are being built within the premises of the plants themselves, the so-called ATIs. With regard to the lowering of the legal conditions for nuclear safety, the change in the INES scale to assess radioactive events was the first step, but we have seen a gradual reduction in safety requirements and even the ten-year limit for the duration of operating licences for power plants has been removed. Garoña was not a safe power station when it was operating - the 137 nuclear incidents that it had during its operation have already been mentioned here. Garoña was a power plant called the thousand-and-a-crack power plant, due to the numerous cracks that appeared in the reactor vessel of the nuclear power plant. Garoña caused serious problems of warming the water of the Ebro River - up to 15 degrees of warming the water of the Ebro during the operation of the power plant - to the point that we are talking not only about the mandates of the Nuclear Security Council, but also that the High Court of Justice of Castile and León ordered the construction of a cooling tower to prevent that heating of the Ebro and, by the way, the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation called for an end to the heating of the Ebro which assumed the operation of the power plant, not to mention the numerous radioactive leaks that occurred during its operation. The Ebro basin would be the main one affected by an accident at the Garoña nuclear power plant. We are talking about a very rich basin, the richest river basin in Spain, with intense agricultural activity that would undoubtedly be affected in the event of an accident at this nuclear power plant. Therefore, the concern is great throughout the Ebro basin for what can happen and, therefore, in all the cities and parliaments of these autonomous communities motions are being approved for the closure of the Ebro basin. I repeat that the question that we are asking ourselves is how many absolute majorities it takes for the Government to take note of and listen to the citizens and to close this debate definitively - which, I insist, has no parallel - to reopen a closed four-year nuclear power plant, a forty-six-year nuclear power plant, a nuclear power plant that has not contributed a kilowatt to the network in recent years. It is also being said that the definitive closure of Garoña would affect the price of light, but that is false, absolutely false, because Garoña has not been contributing kilowatts for four years. In short, we already know that here we have the debate on the future of Spanish nuclear power stations. We have put forward a proposal for a law that will be discussed in due course in favour of the gradual and orderly closure of nuclear power plants. We understand that if we do not make that progressive and orderly closure, we will have to face a situation of disorder, and there can be an impact on the price or on emissions. The central of Garoña is not necessary from the energy point of view, its launch would be very dangerous and, therefore, has generated a huge social and political rejection. We demand that it never reopen and demand a decisive bet on a clean, sustainable and safe energy model. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u50	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Peña Camarero.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u51	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not announcing anything they don't know. The Socialist Group's position on the Santa María de Garoña nuclear power plant is clear: closure, dismantling and the future. We are concerned about what will happen to Garoña once the contradictory report of the Nuclear Security Council is known. They want to open a power plant that does not comply with security measures, they want to give it sixty years of life when it is only designed to withstand forty, and they want a license for a power plant that is banned from generating electricity because it is dangerous, so what do they want me to tell you about opacity, lies and contradictions about this power plant? It's already raining on wet. Let us be clear, the socialists will stand up as long as the government continues to play with Garoña, play with security and play with the interests of the citizens of the area. The Socialists are not going to stand idly by, we want to pass a law that prevents authorization for the operation or renewal of a nuclear power plant once its final cessation has been decreed. And remember, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, you are also alone in this. We want you to explain to us the opaque process followed in Garoña's authorization. Ladies and gentlemen, what has happened so that four months ago the President of the Nuclear Security Council assured here in Parliament that it was a sine qua non for Nuclenor to carry out the security improvements required since 2009 to issue the report and this has not happened. What happened? He lied. Any citizen who listens to us will wonder why all this. Because with this authorization we will never be able to have a public and serious debate on the energy transition in this country; for example, to lower the light, to bet on renewables or to reduce the dependence of nuclear power, because we will have to pay billions of dollars in compensation to electricity. Here is the round business of the matter; they are lies today and lies yesterday. Let's remember to understand what's going on. The People's Party, which has ruled for more than five years, promised in 2011, in an electoral campaign, that it would open Garoña and maintain the reindustrialisation plan in the affected regions. The reality five years later is that there is neither plan nor central, that they lied. What we do have is a five-year-old and five-year-older power station because no investments have been made to ensure the safety of citizens and the safety of the power station. And speaking of reality, it is interesting that the neighbours of Garoña's environment know that the People's Party barely ten days ago rejected investment to develop projects in the area. The party in government does not want to invest a euro, exactly the same - that is, nothing - that has invested since it is ruling. It should be remembered that in 2012 they eliminated a reindustrialization plan launched by the socialists, which activated in only two years more than 165 million euros in development. Since the People's Party came to the government, it has allocated zero euros to employment, zero euros to services and zero euros to infrastructure in the affected regions. So who is going to believe you now within that six-month period that you have given yourselves to make a decision? You've been making political decisions with Garoña all your life, one of them leaving the environment to your fate. Decisions which have also caused great uncertainty among the workers of the plant, because it is also true that the only jobs lost in Garoña have been lost with the governments of the People's Party. His government has ended hundreds of jobs in Garoña. Their commitment to employment is false and lies. And what about the municipalities in the area, which are only asking for three things: objective information, security and development. So, ladies and gentlemen, solve your problems in some regions that have always been very generous to you and to which you have given so little. In short, from the People's Party government they want Garoña as an element of negotiation. Garoña serves electricians to extend the useful life of nuclear power from 40 to 60 years, without the need to comply with security measures. Garoña serves the People's Party as a currency of exchange to approve the General Budgets of the State. Those who are not going to serve Garoña at all are the neighbors of Burgos, the neighbors of Álava, the neighbors of their surroundings. So listen to the citizenry, listen to the amendment that we have all agreed on in this House and listen to this Parliament: we want closure, we want dismantling programming and we want an economic recovery plan involving social and institutional actors to start talking about opportunities, infrastructure and the future in the Garoña environment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs Peña. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Mariscal, I have the floor on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Matute, it is always better to come and defend this house, in the democratic sphere, with the word closure of a nuclear power plant than to do so, as others did in other times, with violence, extortion and murder, as happened with Lemoniz. It's always better. [[Applauds]] That Bildu brings to this house an initiative to improve the lives of the Spaniards gives me suspicion. I see the rest of you don't, but it drives me to suspect. Therefore, you will already know the meaning of the vote of my political group. Nuclear energy happens as it happens with oil. Already in his day Ahmed Yamani, who was Saudi minister of oil, said that the stone age did not end because the stones were finished and that the age of oil would not end because the oil was finished. For exactly the same will happen with nuclear energy; it will cease to be a source of electricity, obviously. But what is relevant in energy policy is the speed we give to that transition. If the speed is not responsible and is not measured, if we hurry, what has happened recently with the Spanish electricity system will happen: there will be a deficit, therefore an increase in the price of light, the emission targets will not be met, for example, and we will end up damaging the well-being and competitiveness of companies and families. I know you've found a glue that allows you to join everyone against the PP. This may seem profitable in the short term, but this political group, the People's Parliamentary Group, and the government are neither pro nor antinuclear, and in that we differ from all of you. What we want is an electrical system that guarantees what I have so many times proposed in this house: twenty-four hours, seven days of continuous supply and, therefore, guarantee of supply, without emissions and therefore reducing CO2 emissions and allowing the fight against climate change, and at a reasonable price. This nuclear technology, which has 7% installed energy and guarantees 23% of the energy we consume, guarantees 490 days of continuous energy to our society. I know that there is an antinuclear feeling, which is a Spanish endemism; moreover, it is an endemism of the Spanish left. I say on the Spanish left because, if we look at the existence of sixty power stations in the whole world right now under construction or that in France, where the Socialist Party governs, as you well know, there are fifty-eight power stations operating and one under construction, and in total they generate 48 % of the energy consumed, we find ourselves in this opposition to an endemism typical of the Spanish left. I believe that with Garoña there is prejudice; there is great prejudice and little judgment. There is prejudice and little judgment because there are no economic reasons for not continuing the plant - we have already explained many times that the closure of all Spanish nuclear equipment would mean an increase of between 20 and 35 % in the electricity bill -; there are no environmental arguments, because it is clear that the disappearance of the nuclear park would bring with it more CO2 emissions and therefore a breach of the objectives of the climate summit, and neither are there any arguments related to safety. I have heard all the speakers, and the truth is that I feel inferior in terms of security and knowledge to the Nuclear Security Council. I see that there are very great experts here, I do not; I trust the two hundred technicians of the Nuclear Security Council, who are the ones responsible for ensuring security in our country. To question the nuclear safety or radiological protection of our country in energy policy debates is not only irresponsible, but, in my view, clearly an act of frivolity. The Integrated Central Monitoring System, which is a system that has the board in operation, speaks well to the clears of power stations that operate with full guarantees for the environment and for people, and also speaks very well about the work that is carried out by the workers of the power stations. The Socialist Group is talking about why the operation of the power stations is to be raised beyond forty years, but if it was the government of Rodríguez Zapatero who raised Garoña's life from forty to forty-two years! We must be consistent in energy policy. And we must not doubt - now I refer to the Citizens' Group - the independence of the regulators, because if we already doubt even the independence of the technicians themselves, we will have an added difficulty, and we must try to understand that in order to reach a pact for energy it is important not to take away what is not of interest to us. In this case, if we removed the 7,000 megawatts of nuclear power from our country's electricity grid, as has been suggested here, or directly, if we did, we would have to find a technology that would guarantee us equal competitiveness and give us the same guarantees, and that technology today would bring with greater price the failure to meet the objectives of the climate summit and make it difficult to guarantee supply. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. In the turn of accepting or rejecting the amendment tabled, I have to ask Mr Matute García de Jalón whether his group accepts the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u55	It is a compromise amendment which, of course, we accept since we also sign it.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u56	Thank you very much. It shall be taken into account at the time of the vote. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on encouraging mediation as a form of conflict resolution. [[File number 162/000319]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u57	We turn next to the next item on the agenda, a non-law proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on mediation as a form of conflict resolution. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Lorenzo Torres has the floor. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are bringing to this plenary today for consideration and adoption a non-legislative proposal which urges the Government to take a number of measures to encourage mediation as a means of resolving conflicts. As you know - as many of you were here - in 2012 a new path for the resolution of conflicts in this country was initiated through Law 5/2012 of 6 July, on mediation of civil and commercial affairs, a law that came to transpose into Spanish law Directive 2008/52, of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe; a law that in turn was supplemented by Royal Decree-Law 980/2013 of 13 December, which developed certain aspects of the law concerning the training of mediators, civil liability, advertising of mediators and mediation institutions and introduced the simplified mediation procedure for electronic processes. Subsequently, progress was made and mediation was also introduced in criminal matters through the Criminal Code, with the amendment of article 84.1, as well as the Act on Criminal Responsibility of Minors and, of course, the important Act on the Statute of the Victim, a law which established restorative justice in this country, the aim of which is for the offender to acknowledge or be held responsible for what he has done, to be aware of the consequences of what he has done, and to have a meeting in which he can ask for forgiveness of the victim and come to repair the damage caused. In addition, the victim finds a place of listening and expression on an emotional level in the face of the damage caused, and all this allows to direct the conflict towards re-education and reintegration. That is why we are here today talking about mediation, and the truth is that in the last two years, according to the statistics of the General Council of the Judiciary, many mediation initiatives have been promoted: almost 17,000 in family mediation, 910 in the civil sphere and 12,000 in the criminal sphere. For this reason, today we believe that mediation is a very necessary instrument or a tool that is very much demanded by the citizenry, and that is why we present this GNP, in order to promote mediation as a useful and effective alternative to solve, in a peaceful and positive way, the conflicts that arise in the different fields, family, social, civil, criminal and commercial, and above all to create a culture of mediation, that is, to educate people in training and mediation as a way to resolve these conflicts. It is true that the Spanish ratios are very similar to those of the other European countries in which mediation is working, however, with regard to the report by the European Union aimed at achieving a deliberate relationship between mediation and judicial proceedings, mediation in Spain is still far from reaching such data, because they call for almost 50% of cases to be resolved through mediation and at least 50% through the courts. We believe that this kind of impetus is necessary, which is why we are presenting this GNP today, which I hope will be approved by all of you. All the representatives of the political parties have been gathering in order to obtain this support. In short, and for lack of time - it is only seven minutes that I have - I will say only the necessary measures that we want to push for or on which we want to urge the Government. The first step is to enhance mediation as a tool for resolving all conflicts, so that the necessary measures are taken for the cultural and educational changes needed in all social spheres, promoting the effective way to address conflicts through mediation. Of course, not always the best response, not the most timely, not the most effective and not the most agile is traditional justice. That is why we must go through these new mediation procedures. A second point is to make mediation known to all citizens. Society as a whole needs to be made aware of the benefits of its use through dissemination and collaboration campaigns with mediation institutions. A third very important point is also working closely with the mediation specialists and the institutions that make up it. - This is something essential. People who are working in mediation are aware of the real problems faced by individuals who are subject to mediation or those who are subject to judicial conflict, so it is necessary to know their experience and bring it to the standards. In fact, family mediation is being promoted through all family courts, so that the first information session is mandatory in order to make people known in the context of the family in conflict this kind of solution. A number of procedures, especially enforcement of judgments or amendments to measures when we talk about changes in compensatory pensions, changes in the amount of charges, the system of visits, awards or use of the floor could be resolved through mediation. This is what the specialists are asking us, that people who submit to these procedures have a first meeting and that this is mandatory, but only for information purposes. Another important point is to include mediation in the educational sphere. We must always have a lot of influence on education, on the training of young people in these values of mediation and on how this can be a way of resolving conflicts within schools. There is no doubt that the school is confirmed as the fundamental educational context for the personal development of students. There are already educational laws that encourage such mediations, especially when we are talking about school harassment or bullying. Finally, we also want to establish a national day of mediation that coincides with the European Day of Mediation, which would be 21 January, because it was that day when Recommendation No 98 of 21 January 1998 was adopted by the Committee of Ministers of Europe, which is the first legislative text on family mediation. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. As I said at first, this law was passed almost unanimously in 2012; I believe that it abstained only United Left for reasons of text rather than context, as I read in the Journal of Sessions of this Congress. But at that time a new and little explored path began in this country, as was the resolution of conflicts through mediation, dialogue and the search for agreements. The support I am asking for to this GNP, which has already been negotiated with other groups, is on this path, which is nothing more than the search for agreement, permanent dialogue and compromise, in order to improve the lives of citizens, because there is no doubt that we are here to make laws that will improve the lives of the people who voted for us, but we want these values of finding agreement, permanent dialogue and compromise to be transferred also to all the debates that arise in this House. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u59	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) is launching an interesting initiative on the extra-judicial settlement of conflicts. It does so by highlighting the law that five years ago introduced mediation and the need for society to know more and better the tools that allow, among other things, to relieve the burden of the courts with the prior resolution of disputes and disputes and also to avoid an administrative cost of material and human resources at the service of the Administration of Justice and in turn the collapse in the resolution of conflicts. This proposal fully enters into an indispensable culture of agreement and is a reality that progresses in increasing the cases that are submitted to mediation and that end up with a positive agreement without having to go through the courts. While I have already announced my support for this initiative, I wanted to improve its text by extending with an added point the five of the original initiative, in which I call for an impetus to intra-judicial mediation in collaboration with the different autonomous communities, institutions and actors involved, by expanding the network of intra-judicial mediation information points, PIMI, by providing them with legal coverage and regulation, as well as by establishing instruments of collaboration with the entities necessary for its operation. PIMI responds to a need that has highlighted the growing Spanish section of the European Mediation Judges Group, which includes judges, judges, prosecutors, court secretaries and mediators. It would be a great step forward for mediation in Spain if the Government were to boost this network of information points. Mr Miguel Lorenzo was pleased to incorporate the meaning of my amendment into the compromise text, which is why, Madam President, I voted in favour of the Forum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs Ciuro i Buldó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. From our party we have always been fervent advocates of mediation because we understand that it represents a lot of benefits when it comes to agreeing out-of-court solutions that channel the needs of two parties to the conflict. Moreover, we have always seen mediation as an efficient issue when it comes to speeding up and expediting justice. There is a study by the Official College of Administrative Managers that says that an efficient mediation of 10% of the cases in dispute would save 177 million euros, and if it were 30% the figure would reach 530 million euros. We therefore believe that mediation is a good step towards the out-of-court resolution of conflicts that must be supported and promoted. Obviously, this triggers a spiral of confidence in economic and social relations. We have tabled a couple of amendments, of which we certainly have no return from the initiative's proposing group. We are aware that there may be, for what has been said, a transaction the result of which we will wait to pronounce. At the outset, I would tell you that you will not have our vote in favour. Why? Because we would first like you to be clarified, gentlemen of the majority group, because your Minister of Justice, who I understand is from his own political party, has announced a mandatory mediation law and you are talking about voluntary mediation. We would like to know exactly what is the nature of this mediation that you are trying to present. In any event, they should not need our support unless the consensus of the Joint Group on this task has been sought. Therefore, we will wait for the transactional to fix our positioning in view of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since Compromís we have welcomed this non-law proposal, which seems too warm, too generic, but which is a good step forward. In line with what Mrs Ciuró has said, we believe that the proposing group should have the sensitivity of reaching a compromise with all the formations that have tabled amendments. [[The lady]] We share the arguments of efficiency that are expressed in favour of mediation, but we can also focus on something else. Conflictal dispute resolution mechanisms involve theatricalization, a certain staging, which very often leads to confrontation between parties to extremes that are unreasonable and cause a negative enquisition of numerous human relations. Think about all the problems that come from family trials, inheritances, delinquents, communities of neighbors... I do not discover anything new by saying that litigation is a lesser evil that solves many problems but also generates others. To improve justice, it is necessary to trust people, their capacity for rational understanding of their interests and their ability to seek autonomously the best way to care for them. Mediation does not judge, but approaches, lime roughness, helps to pull out the meeting points, forces us not to disagree with our problem, but to be responsible for its solution. This non-legislative proposal also has as a valuable element that points to mediation in the educational field, where everyone and everyone must soon learn to reason, understand and civilize our problems of coexistence. The judiciary is and must remain one of the pillars of our rule of law. We must let it improve and evolve, and we must promote mediation as a pruning shear of all the scrap that is preventing this being able to develop coherently. But I would urge the proposing group that we would like a compromise to be reached and that all the amendments that have been tabled here be heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u65	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u66	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. We find a proposal from the People's Group that in its original wording simply, from our humble point of view, was absolutely harmless and therefore redundant with what was already established in the very legislation that they themselves mentioned in the proposal they have brought to this House. As innocuous, he had only one consideration: we do not know what to say on this subject. Because what is already in the law, bringing it back here in a non-law proposition and telling us the obvious, creates some perplexity. In principle, what is to be said is that mediation is a system of conflict resolution, but what it pursues is justice in a self-compositive way, that is, that someone at a given time can fix their conflicts with the help of a third party who is not a judge who imposes a solution but comes to that. Mediation can be applied in many areas, in the civil sphere, in the commercial sphere; it can also be applied in what is called restorative justice in the criminal sphere, in the educational sphere, we all know. What are the glasses of the People's Party and the bias that this proposition has? We are going to talk about mediation, but only mediation in the civil and commercial spheres. Why? Purely and simply because it is where the business is, it is where the money is and where the law itself establishes that it can be delegated to chambers of commerce, etc., the execution of these mediation services. From that point of view, it was not too graceful for us to talk about this issue because we had broadened the framework. When the People's Party itself says that the law is the main milestone for the implementation of mediation in Spain, it forgets that mediation is the result of a lot of pioneers who, often free of charge and embedded in associations or individually or privately, have been extending this criterion so that the judges and courts, gradually, and the general public would enter into this culture and understand that, in fact, this is a reasonable form of resolution. We did not want to forget them, and that is why we have included in the compromise amendment a thank you to all these people. That it is necessary to strengthen this institution? Yeah. That nothing's been done? Yeah. That we expect something to be done? No, because if there is no budget for all these kinds of matters, we will devote ourselves, as it has been so far in the General Council of the Judiciary, to calling on various legal actors, to explain to them how beautiful mediation is, but without spending a hard time doing mediation itself or retributing to these professionals. Should mediation play a fundamental role in justice as an instrument? Yes, but for justice. Its mission is neither to relieve the burden of affairs nor to be an effective means of facilitating the citizen. No, it is a more justice service, so that when it is necessary it will be done through mediation and when it is essential it can be done in other ways, in the traditional way with a judge, but without having some glasses to see merchants that simply approach us to take out the calculator and if it is not for us we do it or if it is for us because we generate a private business, we derive it in this other way. It is also raised in this non-legislative proposal that this initiative generates values for coexistence. Indeed, and we fully agree that these values are generated for coexistence, but that could be applied, for example, by the People's Party to all forms of mediation that have existed. Because, for example, when we talked about restorative justice and the so-called restorative encounters between victims of terrorism and former ETA members who were in prison, it was cut off without any explanation by the People's Party. That should not be to extend the values of culture, peace, peaceful coexistence, etc., that mediation carries with it. However, as I know that Mr Lorenzo likes the Romans and as we have sometimes spoken and quod abundat non nocet - I don't know where he is - that is, what abounds does not harm, and some corrections have been made that we understand of interest, such as at least framing mediation in the services of the courts, making a status of mediator with rights and duties and giving legal certainty, and focusing only on what would be the issue of this Chamber, which would be civil and commercial, we can vote in favour without prejudice to everything we have just commented. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u67	For the Socialist Group, Mr Campo Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, very good afternoon. The People's Parliamentary Group is submitting to this House the adoption of a non-legislative proposal with very specific contents, as we have just heard: enhancing mediation, publicizing mediation, working closely with mediation specialists, including the value of mediation and declaring 21 January as the national day of mediation. It is true that various groups have tabled amendments and it seems that we can reach a compromise. But believe me if I tell you that the feeling I feel is that of the eternal Nietzschenian return or, in other words, the hurricane, that is, the useless effort. With which it is falling, with that of exceptional situations which are taking place and which question justice in all eyes, it is a shame to see that they are taking advantage of the situation and do not present a proposal with much more bluntness. The proposal before us does not say anything new. Everything they propose to us is already included in Spanish legislation and European directives, because the only novelty is the declaration of 21 January as the national day of mediation, a day which, by the way, has already been celebrated. Allow me to motivate what I'm saying. See what can be read in Law 5/2012 on mediation in civil and commercial matters, law in force. Additional provision 2: 'Initiation to mediation. 1. The competent public authorities for the provision of material means at the service of the Administration of Justice shall make available to the courts and the public information on mediation as an alternative to the judicial process. Two. The competent public authorities shall endeavour to include mediation within the free pre-trial advice and guidance provided for in Article 6 of Law 1/1996 of 10 January of Free Legal Assistance, in so far as it reduces both litigation and its costs.' Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you should hardly have understood that second additional provision when you are now again asking for the House's support for its impetus. It is nothing else that can be drawn from the purported approval of this non-law proposal. The verbs used are very eloquent and expressive: to promote, to make known, to seek spaces for collaboration, to include mediation on the educational level. How many more years do we have to wait to build the foundation of mediation? The European recommendation of 1998, almost twenty years ago, has already laid these foundations and we continue to say that we are going to make it known, to enhance. Ladies and gentlemen, this is as insufficient as it is useless. If we truly believe in values for democratic coexistence and social peace to be the foundation of mediation, let us stop wasting time and create quality services, let us incorporate mediation professionals into educational institutions that, from childhood education to university, will incorporate it into their life systems and transform society. The growth of society goes through the regularization of mediation not as an activity more professionals with a hundred hours of training, it will have to be something more, raise their status, a specific place in our society; in short, they have visibility. Where do we want to place mediation? That's the question. Do we want to empower her and make her known? How? For we believe collective mediators who are in our courts, who are in our schools, who are in hospitals... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u69	One second, Your Honor. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go ahead, Mr. Campo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u70	Thank you. What a better dissemination campaign than the one that citizens find in institutions. I make it clear: that needs a budget. Ladies and gentlemen, my group believes that the justice system should not be the last remedy, but the first solution. To that end, we must not speed up procedural processing, but we must improve and enhance alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. We have to stop obsessing about litigation. Ending it is very easy, remember the formula of Minister Gallardón: we put rates and effect achieved. Litigation is consistent with societies with complex personal and commercial relations, a phenomenon common to advanced democratic societies. A growing rate of litigation is one of the distinctive features of our societies and, therefore, it is necessary for us to make an appropriate diagnosis so as not to be mistaken in the solutions. Litigation is therefore not a measure to assess the effectiveness of our system of justice, but rather the complexity of society. The Socialist Party has fixed the resolution of conflicts in the extra-judicial sphere. Its success will certainly reduce these judicial disputes, the times and satisfaction of citizens. The goal is easy, but you strive not to see it. Mediation should be included in procedural legislation, as well as ensuring a common framework in this area for the whole State. From this general approach, yes to the need for mediation and in specific areas as it may be, for example, to establish the obligation for a first obligation to know that a matter can be handled and resolved by mediation. Ladies and gentlemen, let us work on mediation and work on the happiness of our citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in the position-setting round by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u72	Thank you very much, President. The People's Parliamentary Group proposes a non-legislative proposal to encourage mediation as a form of conflict resolution and proposes that Law 5/2012 be supplemented by measures that expand the knowledge of the institution of mediation and raise awareness of society for its use in family, civil and criminal disputes. Indeed, the mediation we are talking about is intra-judicial mediation, that is, mediation in which a judicial body that knows of a dispute leads it to public alternative dispute resolution services so that, in its case, an inter-party agreement can be reached. For this reason, the General Council of the Judiciary has been looking at the institution and all its memoirs since 1913, once the Law 5/2012 has been adopted, and it also devotes part of its work to it and for this it promotes agreements-marks with the public administrations with competence in the field of justice. The council also promotes the training of judges and magistrates at the Judicial School in both initial and continuing training. It has also adopted practical guides and a specific guide, i.e. referral protocols, which are the basis and guide for mediation processes. Likewise, from the inspection service, through inspection visits, it collaborates in the improvement of its quality, fusion and promotion in those courts and tribunals where mediation is carried out. As can be seen, there is a dual objective in mediation. On the one hand, to consolidate the intra-trial system of conflict resolution complementary to jurisdiction, and not only to relieve the workload but also because a non-judicial response is proposed that is much more appropriate to many cases. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u73	Mr. Legarda, one second. Let's wait for your ladies and gentlemen to sit down, keep them quiet, and then continue. Go ahead, Mr. Legarda.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u74	Thank you very much, President. As noted, there was a dual objective and the second is also to provide a number of values such as dialogue, cooperation and accountability of citizens in the face of conflict, to which we should add, in family mediation, that agreements within the family foster a path of dialogue that takes place in a less post facto procedural conflict and that, although no agreement is reached, mere participation in mediation processes implies a reduction in the tone of conflicts. With regard to criminal mediation, although not under the umbrella of Law 5/2012, I must say that it is a valid procedure for resolving conflicts and for social peace, as it contributes to the reparation of the victim, who is the main target of the process, and also facilitates the social recovery of the offender by taking responsibility for his acts of injustice caused. In this context, how do we evaluate the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group when it proposes to make the mediation known, raise awareness of its advantages, declare 21 January the national day of mediation and include it in the educational environment? It proposes important things, but, in our view, not the most important one, which is that public administrations with competence in the field of the administration of justice, i.e. the Ministry of Justice and certain autonomous communities, should contribute to intra-judicial mediation through the creation of public services for alternative resolution of conflicts. And this is precisely what the Ministry of Justice and some autonomous communities do not do. Let us see what the last memory of the General Council of the Judiciary says about this: The problem of mediation is that the Executive does not allocate personal or material means to mediation, with exceptions being the administrations with jurisdiction in justice that have done so. And he goes on to say: Catalonia, the Basque Country and La Rioja finance almost all the intra-judicial mediation services that are carried out, having created their own services. Other communities - he continues - partially fund mediation experiences: Canary Islands, Galicia, Valencia, Aragon, among others. And finally - and the report ends - other autonomous communities do not devote any means to mediation: Cantabria lacks completely; Madrid, there is no support from the Community; and - it says in text - neither does the Ministry of Justice. In short, gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, less noise and more nuts. And finally, Madam President, two issues; very briefly. With regard to the declaration of 21 January as the national day of mediation, we do not share the proposal. The 21st of January is already the European Day of Mediation, and to the extent that it is the day of Europe, it is here too, unless we call for a sort of dualism as is the case between international law and domestic law. Nor do we understand the proposal to include mediation within the educational environment. We ask ourselves: What is the matter with the trunks? Are they going to recover Education for Citizenship as a matter and as a truncated matter? Because, outside this area, there is no action by the Government. We shall ask for the separate vote on points 4 and 5 of this non-legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u75	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u76	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the People's Party - which we know is the ruling party in the Spanish state - brings us a non-law proposal to encourage mediation as a form of conflict resolution. And, of course, we would have liked it, as they govern, if they had submitted a bill or a bill, depending on whether it was presented by the Government or presented by the parliamentary group, in order to go along with what the Minister of Justice pointed out on 5 December, when he said that it was one of his priorities to regulate mediation and arbitration. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u77	One second, Mrs. Capella and Farré. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not willing to tell you to shut up again. If anyone doesn't want to be in the Chamber, get out. Of course, there are ten minutes, twenty or one hour left, your ladies and gentlemen are entitled to be heard and I will therefore not repeat it again. Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor and anyone who does not want to hear her leave the Chamber. Mrs. Capella, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u78	For that, which is very good and which is fantastic that you now push mediation, but for this to be credible it is not enough to say it, but it is necessary that the law be applied and measures be taken, simply and simply, ras i curt, as we say in Catalan. Because, as far as we know, you have been ruling since the 10th Legislature, since 2011, and you have had enough time and reason to do so, to regulate beyond what you have regulated. During all these years, what have you done? Something they have done; yes, it is true, but among other things, what they have done mainly is to discourage litigation by applying fees to judicial proceedings and not by encouraging alternative measures to the judicialization of conflicts. From Esquerra Republicana we believe that it is time for us to rethink the mechanisms of conflict resolution. The judicial system doesn't solve everything, it doesn't fix everything. Judicial confrontation does not solve everything, and proof of this is the high degree of frustration that judicial proceedings bring to all parties involved. It is also true that since the judicial careers, the different individuals and legal careers involved in the proceedings, the judicialization and therefore the loss of spaces cause fear, and there are also resistances to the changes. Josep Redorta, lawyer and mediator, in one of his many articles on mediation told us already in 2011 that throughout history there have been three great methods of resolving conflicts: force, law and speech. And the truth is that in different ways and with different intensity the three have been used and are used: the force, the right and the word. The negotiated solutions to conflicts, whatever they may be, are at the basis of the culture of every society and are used to being high-quality solutions, as they end up pleasing all parties to the conflict while not so with the solutions imposed, which come to be the judicial ones. This does not mean that it is an antagonistic or non-conciliatory world; on the contrary, there are things whose solution lies in the process and there are things that must be resolved in the field of conflict management and with the various instruments and mechanisms existing in this field, including mediation. Right and mediation, as I said, are not opposite camps, but the opposite. Mediation allows us to improve the judicial system itself. Therefore, as I said at the beginning of the intervention, today we would have liked to have met with a bill or a bill that said that I was openly betting on mediation and that I would have had a different statement to the rhetoric 'power' to come to affirm that in the new conception of the Administration of Justice it is proposed that access to justice by citizens entails access to the necessary or appropriate means of conflict resolution, depending on the circumstances of each case. This requires moving towards a culture of conflict resolution that is less exclusively related to litigation. By the way, you have signed here a compromise proposal in which you have neither counted nor asked for the opinion of the Republican Left. We therefore consider that you do not believe that the votes of the Republican Left are necessary. I thank you infinitely because that allows us to abstain with all calm and normality, in view of the fact that it is also a non-law proposal that does not contribute anything, as one of the spokespersons pointed out earlier, because everything you say in this non-law proposal is found in the law. The Catalans and the Catalans know, because they have shown us so much, that you, the People's Party and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain are more likely to have the solutions imposed than the negotiated solutions. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, speaking at the end of the debate has the drawback that most of the things one should say are certainly already being said. In any case, we announce our support, as it could not otherwise be, for this initiative and we also appreciate the effort to reach a compromise; precisely in an initiative that seeks to promote mediation mechanisms and reach agreements beyond the usual processes of conflict resolution, it is especially to thank that effort for dialogue and to reach agreement. In addition, that compromise agreement we believe substantially improves the initiative which, in the first place, could, perhaps, be of little or little substance. The truth is that mediation, the process of conflict resolution that is the object of this non-law proposal, is the process of conflict resolution most used throughout history, and also in increasingly complex societies - as has already been said here throughout the various interventions - where social and economic relations have become more complex and have also led to the firing of judicialization processes it is clear that promoting alternative ways of conflict resolution is a way of lowering the burden and pressure on our courts and tribunals and, of course, reaching a greater degree of satisfaction on the part of citizens. Only one fact, which I believe is sufficiently significant of the need to promote this type of process: in Spain, with almost 50 million inhabitants, some 9.5 million disputes are reported a year and in France, with 65 million, they barely reach the 6 million procedures. Therefore, as I said to you, it seems to us that promoting these modes of alternative conflict resolution is absolutely essential and necessary. Since Law 5/2012 of 6 July, we have had legislation regulating mediation at national level in the civil and commercial sphere, which is, on the other hand, the transposition of a directive of the year 2008 of the Parliament and of the Council and which we believe is insufficient. Therefore, it seems to us that extending these mediation processes to other areas - which were not covered by this law - is absolutely necessary. [[Rumors]] But the success of mediation for us is not only measured in quantitative terms, but also in terms of improving the quality of life and of people's relations and hence that mediation itself is beneficial, even if a definitive and total agreement is not reached; also when partial agreements are reached or the relationship between the parties is improved, it is clear that we have reached a positive agreement. [[Rumors]] For us, as I told you, it is important to promote mediation, but we also do not know the difficulties...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u81	Silence, please, silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u82	We are not unaware of some of the difficulties involved in correcting precisely this initiative: firstly, the lack of awareness on the part of the majority of citizens of the existence of these mediation processes. Most citizens, not even many professionals, know the existence of these processes. [[Rumors]] It is also clear that in some European countries efforts have been made to promote this alternative through mandatory mediation processes - some intervener was also said - and it seems to us that this can be a way of exploring precisely these processes. [[Rumors]] No doubt...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u83	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u84	It's very difficult to concentrate. The truth is that when you see it from here you appreciate in its magnitude how difficult it is to concentrate with this murmur, even at the end of the afternoon. In short, we will support this initiative, which was also part of the investment pact with the People's Parliamentary Group, and here is that measure 137 which precisely points to enhancing arbitration and mediation by giving citizens a leading role and ensuring the corresponding guarantees of freedom and security. We are not unaware of the difficulties, but, as I said to them, we believe that it is necessary to ease the burden and pressure on the courts and tribunals and to increase the level of satisfaction of citizens by involving them in the resolution of the conflicts in which they are involved. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u85	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Lorenzo Torres whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u86	Yes, we accept them, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u87	Thank you very much. The vote will begin in two minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote will begin. We voted to take into consideration the proposal for a law amending Law 39/2006 of 14 December on the promotion of personal autonomy and care for persons in a situation of dependency, as regards participation in the cost of the benefits and services of the beneficiaries. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 333 votes in favour, 326 votes in favour, 328 votes in favour, 5 votes against.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u89	The proposal for a law was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u90	We voted to take into consideration the proposal of the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies for the parliamentary control of parliamentary agreements without force of law. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 332 votes, plus 2 telematics votes, 334; in favour, 332 votes, plus 2 telematics votes, 334.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u91	Consideration was given to the proposed reform of the Regulation.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u92	We now proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals as agreed in the debate. First of all, we voted for the non-law proposal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Matute, on the Santa María de Garoña nuclear power plant. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Citizens, Esquerra Republicana, the Basque Group, PNV, and the Joint Group. The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 205 against, 126.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u93	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on encouraging mediation as a form of conflict resolution. [[File number 162/000319]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u94	We then proceed to vote on the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning the promotion of mediation as a form of conflict resolution. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Socialist, Confederal of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Ciudadanos y Mixto. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 304 abstentions, 28.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-07-CD170307.u95	It's approved. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was six and fifty minutes in the afternoon.
