ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u1	The meeting was called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, having heard of the F-18 accident this morning, I would like to convey our condolences and affection to the families and relatives of the Lieutenant of the Air Force, Fernando Pérez Serrano, as well as to Captain Borja Aybar García, who died on 12 October.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, also before we begin the agenda for the plenary session, we shall proceed to keep a minute of silence in memory of those who have died as a result of the tragic wave of forest fires that is affecting Galicia, Asturias and Castile and León. In this way, the Congress of Deputies wishes to convey its solidarity and support to the families of the victims, to all the victims and to all those who are collaborating in the tasks of extinguishing the fires and assisting the affected population. At these difficult times we also extend our condolences and affection to the institutions and to the nearby people of Portugal, who are also suffering the devastating effects of the fire. [[The House, standing up, keeps a minute of silence]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u3	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the exclusion from the agenda of this sitting of item 27 concerning the urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on the general policy of the Government in the field of transport and railway infrastructure in order to promote the competitiveness, growth and job creation of the Spanish economy. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The exclusion of the reference point is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u4	We now begin with the item on the agenda relating to the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group amending article 34 of the Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 23 October, approving the consolidated text of the Workers' Status Act to include the obligation to register daily and including the specific time of entry and exit for each worker. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs De Frutos Madrazo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u5	Good afternoon. On this sad and painful day, our group brings an initiative - as one of my colleagues says - of those that improve people's lives. We bring a simple initiative, we bring an initiative to register the day of all workers, we bring an initiative that we think all the groups here can be happy to carry it out. We have an essential initiative, because the ruling of the Supreme Court of Bankia in March this year altered the existing case law on the matter to which we are going to refer. And we bring an essential and minimal initiative. We think that here today we will see which parliamentary groups really believe in quality at work. We think the least we can do to start talking about quality at work is that a worker can prove what he is working for, collect for what he is working for, and contribute for what he is paying. We believe that this initiative is an instrument to channel many of the issues that we have consistently raised over and over again in this House. We think that something so simple is essential to ensure decent work. Overworked and unpaid work is one of the most important routes of wage devaluation. In the context of equality between men and women, the wage gap is systematically widened by these overworked and unpaid hours. Overwork - which leads to a lack of records - systematically means that our women have a higher employment rate and a lower activity rate. We believe that something as simple as day registration is essential to ensure conciliation, how many times have we talked about conciliation in this Chamber? Rational timetables and the management of working time are not really understood without that time record. We believe that there has been much talk in this Chamber of job creation and we believe that the registration of working hours is an absolutely necessary mechanism to ensure job creation. If an employer can cover a job or several jobs with fewer workers because they work at zero cost, he will certainly not hire more staff. Trade unions have made an approximate calculation and believe that the excess of unregistered or paid overtime would create more than 326,000 jobs. The initiative we are bringing here right now has a direct impact on another issue that we are talking about a lot in this Chamber, which is the Social Security Fund and the financing of pensions and benefits. Unrecorded, unremunerated and unremunerated overtime and even remunerated overtime, paid in B and therefore unremunerated, affect the resources of the social security system. Our initiative also affects something that is essential to us, which is the sinestrality and prevention of occupational risks. Overwork increases accidents at work both in the job and in travel and, in addition, poses a psychosocial risk in itself. The presence of the worker in an excessive and continuous way in the field of the enterprise creates a psychosocial risk which gives rise to diseases on its own. We think it is an initiative that the groups that we believe in all these issues that we systematically talk about and talk about here in the Congress of Deputies will have no choice but to support. Even if it is true that it is a guaranteed initiative from the workers' point of view, we do not understand how the employer cannot also be willing to regulate this obligation. We don't understand business reticence. We think any entrepreneur wants rational schedules within his company. We believe that any entrepreneur wants to avoid unfair competition with those companies that do not comply with the rules of the day and that any entrepreneur wants legal certainty to organize his resources and to develop his organizational power properly. We also understand, far from what we have heard from some groups, that new forms of service provision, such as teleworking or home work, require much more regulation of the duty to register hours in order to avoid such continued availability of workers to the company. A fundamental element of the working relationship, recognized by all the people who are here, is the day, that is, the time the worker spends at the employer's disposal and the rules of limitation of the day, the maximum legal or conventionally established day, we all know that they are necessary rules of law, but it does not serve anything if we do not regulate the need for the employer to register the day daily. Workers who may be listening to us, trade union organizations and even associations of inspectors are well aware that one of the most frequent complaints in the Labour Inspectorate is about overwork and it is one of the worst results in the development of the inspectorate's work. What's your difficulty? The difficulty of controlling by the Labour Inspectorate the day that takes place and the difficulty it has for workers to claim and prove those hours that they really work. Why all this? Because our Workers' Statute does not clearly regulate the obligation to register the day. Until this moment when we present this initiative, the obligation to register the day is regulated in article 35 of the Workers' Statute, that is, in that article concerning overtime. This article tells us more or less that for the purpose of calculating overtime, the hours of each worker will be recorded. This systematic position of the obligation to register in the article relating to overtime meant for a long time that companies understood that it was only if they performed overtime that they had to register the day. What happened at the time? It is a good thing that the Supreme Court and the National Court have come to tell us that no and since 2015 there has been a very settled case law that it is inadmissible that the registration is only linked to the performance of overtime. Why? Because it's a necessary budget, registration, to know if we're doing overtime or not. Why? Because otherwise, not requiring registration, puts the worker in a situation of defencelessness and leads him to a vicious circle of never being able to prove what hours he works. In support of this judgment - and I therefore believe that the Government is going to support us today - the Directorate-General for Employment of the PP issued an instruction, the 3/2016, requiring the registration of the day, establishing the obligation to register the day and that the Labour Inspectorate had to develop the proper control of this registration obligation. That's why we're counting on you today. What happened to this situation, which is why this initiative is absolutely essential? That changed with the Supreme Court ruling, in the case of Bankia, of 23 March 2017. And what did the Supreme Court say in this judgment? Despite what had been stated earlier, he said that article 35.5 did not establish the obligation for companies to keep the day-to-day registration on a daily basis, although it is true - that is why we are proposing this initiative - that it also said that a legislative reform would be appropriate to clarify that the registration obligation should be carried by all companies on a daily basis, making it easier, of course, to test the worker. Well, if the Supreme Court itself says that it would be appropriate to reform legislation to force companies to register the day, if our initiative has been applauded in trade union areas, in the fields of labour inspector's associations and in the field of university, my group cannot be wrong in this matter and therefore - I repeat - will seek the support of all groups. The text we are proposing at the moment is simple. Subsequently, within the time of amendments, we will have the opportunity to debate and contribute, but now the text is simple. In it we say that each worker's daily working day must be registered and that if there is a collective agreement establishing the way in which that day must be registered, that agreement will be the one that will organise the registration system. We're talking about data retention. It seems logical to my group that day records should be kept by the employer for four years, because that is the maximum time in which the worker will be able to make social security claims. And we also set out a legislative amendment that we consider very important: that the Law on Offences and Penalties in the Social Order be reformed so that non-compliances with the registration of days are classified as serious, because it is not a formal, but substantial and essential issue that affects the rights and life of the worker. As I said, they should support this proposal because we all know, in essence, that making registration compulsory is the only way to guarantee the time limits set. Requiring registration would put an end to an element of brutal precariousness: the unjustified excess of days to which workers are subjected. Facilitating registration would give the worker an essential element of proof. As I pointed out at the outset, we cannot begin to talk about quality in employment, decent work, if we do not give the worker an instrument so that he can test the hours during which he carries out his professional activity and so that he can receive a salary on the basis of those hours. We know that there are issues that can and will be discussed and that when they come up here, where I am now, they will say that it is complicated for some companies, that the way to do it is archaic and very traditional, but my group says no. We have left open the way to carry out the registration of overtime. There are different mechanisms: flexibility, taking into account the activity and type of enterprise, provided it is certainly a reliable record. We are going to amend ourselves, because in our proposal there is no obligation for this register to be made available to the legal representatives of the workers, which is essential. Little more I have to add. If you truly believe in the things we say here, in decent work, in the reconciliation of family life, in equality between men and women, in job creation and in the health and physical integrity of workers, I have no doubt that you will support this initiative of my group, which, as I said at the beginning, is simple. It is a matter of employers being obliged to register workers' days on a daily basis. It is a question of workers having an element of proof and not being totally defenceless and at the mercy of what they can prove or not, because their time is a fundamental element of their employment contract. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u6	Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u7	Madam President, thank you very much. Members present here, Mrs De Frutos and Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, have two votes in favour of this proposal for a law amending Article 34 of the Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015, which approved the consolidated text of the Workers' Statute so that the registration of workers at the entry and exit of their enterprises is indeed mandatory. It is common in the industrial sector. Why not also in one of the broader sectors that exist in the Spanish economy such as services? This will help to avoid two things, and that is why we will vote in favour of the consideration; we will then see the final text, but I thank you for the tone that Mrs De Frutos has had in her presentation. First, marathons will be avoided. There is already case law of the National Court regarding the abuse by the management of some financial entity of the marathon days. Secondly, despite the mandatory registration of part-time contracts, part-time contracts will be avoided, but workers will de facto be required to work longer hours of work than the statutory ones. Moreover - and with this I conclude, Madam President - extending working hours does not increase productivity and, as the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group has quite rightly said, it does not generate any more recruitment; on the contrary. Consequently, the social security funds are less paid and no more jobs are created, although she was unaware of the figures she cited. We are therefore going to vote in favour of taking account of the proposal for a law put forward by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u8	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u9	Good afternoon. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before we begin, I would also like to remind the entire population of Galicia and Asturias and, above all, the victims of the fires, because they have suffered circumstances which they should not have endured. Like other victims, in this case of civil rights violations, they should have endured the scene that they had to endure yesterday as a result of judicial decisions that we consider unfair and not only disproportionate, because of proportion and disproportionate I will also speak in relation to this proposed law. As you all know, the purpose of the proposed law is to take into account a double amendment of the Workers' Statute and the Law on Offences and Sanctions in the Social Order to bring its terms, as the rapporteur explained earlier, into line with a ruling of the Supreme Court of 23 March 2017 that is a reversal of the situation that has existed so far. As a fundamental consequence of various rulings of the National Court, a doctrine had been established that the interpretation of article 34 in relation to article 35 of the Workers'Statute implied the need for the carrying of a book or record of daily work in all enterprises. However, as I say to you, this situation has been altered by a ruling of the Supreme Court of 23 March 2017 correcting this interpretation and further points out that companies must maintain a daily control of the hours all their employees work to determine only the existence of overtime, but it makes the obligation with respect to the rest of the day disappear, with respect to the ordinary working day. However, account must also be taken of the explanation given earlier by the National Court itself as to why it understood the requirement, why in the precedent of the judgment the Supreme Court understood the requirement of that register book. It said: if the daily registration of the day was only mandatory when overtime was performed, we would provoke a vicious circle that would empty the institution and its purposes of content, since the budget for overtime to take such consideration is that it be carried out over the maximum duration of the working day, which is why, without the daily registration of the day, it is impossible to control the realization of overtime. To this situation is added another, and it is that the very judgment which somehow resumes the interpretation of Article 35.5 towards the present situation, despite the fact that it rejects the obligation to keep such a daily register, understands - as the rapporteur has explained - that there is a situation of lege ferenda which would make it desirable to reform the existing legislative framework to clarify that obligation to keep such a register, since this would make it easier for the worker - as she says - to prove the realization of overtime. In that case, what he comes to say is that what he cannot do is to replace the legislator and that there would be a lack of lege data to bring about such a change in the current legal terms. That interpretation was not even peaceful. Of the members of the Supreme Court, five cast certain particular votes against this interpretation, which gives rise not only to different interpretations, but also to the need not only to harmonize but also to clarify from the legislative mandate the interpretation to be given to this precept. Well, to that is added a last consideration that we also understand relevant to those who act in the world of labour law, like me, and have a technical knowledge and specialty on their part. The Labour Inspectorate at the time issued a specific instruction in which, by collecting that interpretation made by the National Court, it understood the need for the existence, the keeping of that daily log book and, therefore, it also understood that its non-existence would have an effect contrary to the desired effect of the possible use of those hours in a fraudulent manner, which would always be to the detriment of the workers. I am not going to insist on the idea that the rapporteur has also explained with regard to the different advantages of knowing the real existence of overtime both with regard to the element, of proof, and with regard to the employment contract itself, with regard to family conciliation, with regard to productivity itself and, of course, also with regard to social security contributions. But if there is one element I would like to focus on is that on this issue we also need to take into consideration another element that flies over it, and it is that of proof. Obviously, such a register facilitates proof, but what he has done at present is to reverse the existence of a concrete presumption in favour of the worker for the purpose of proof in the field of the labour procedure itself, which is now being reversed as a burden on the worker. In other words, it is the worker who must now prove the existence of these overtime hours in contrast to those contained in the register itself. A burden is therefore added which we believe is incompatible with the principle of pro-oper ation, which is also incompatible with the favourable view of workers' rights which also contains the labour procedure legislation itself. Ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the reasons why my group is going to support the consideration of this bill. We understand that it is convenient, appropriate and proportionate. We say this because we have also discussed whether it is proportional and appropriate to demand that these companies carry this book, and we believe that yes, we do not consider it to be an added cost, a management cost, or a greater effort than many of them have been doing and can continue to do. That brings us to the beginning of my intervention, to proportionality. We will vote in favour of this consideration because the proportional and the disproportionate have a certain logic. We do not understand that this disproportion should be applied to other terms, such as the civil rights violations we have previously commented on, which we believe to be an inaccurate assessment. We will support this because we not only understand that it is provided but just. Let us hope that others in different terms, in different areas and in different actions will also take into account the judgement of proportion and disproportion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u10	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Del Campo Estaún has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an issue that we believe is no less in the world of labour relations and that in recent years - it has been said here - has generated a deep debate at all levels. The result of this debate is the recent rulings, both in the Bankia case, which have also been pointed out here, and in the case of Banco Sabadell and, ultimately, the rulings issued this same year in February and April, which have generated case law in relation to the compulsory or non-compulsory keeping by our companies of a day-to-day register of workers who provide their services on a full-time basis. If we enter into the analysis of the proposal, the first thing I want to highlight is that we agree with the substance of the proposal, that is, the realization of a working time exceeding the legally or conventionally established day has become a reality for some of the sectors of our labour market, and we only need to see the statistics of the last years of the Labour Inspectorate in order to see the intensity of these breaches. In particular, I would like to highlight the Inform programme implemented by the Directorate-General of the Inspection, which provides us with quantitative information on the performance of active officials tells us that breaches with greater social significance - that is, qualitative, non-quantitative data - occur in the use of the part-time contract, carrying out an ordinary day or carrying out higher working days. It is also true, as has been said here, that fraud in this area involves, in addition to a deprivation of workers' rights and, therefore, a reduction in the social protection of workers, a fraud against the tax agency and a fraud against social security, since these undeclared days are part of the working income and also of future bases of contribution. As I say to you, Mrs De Frutos, we agree with the substance of the proposal and with the reasons behind this proposal, but we do not agree either on how to carry out this day's registration or to whom it is addressed. Basically, our discrepancies go in three directions. The first is in relation to working time. We believe that if we open the melon of the modification of working time it must be for a revision of all the regulations of working time and to adapt that regulation to the new realities, to the new forms of service provision, and not to go back, as you do by establishing in Article 4.2 a right to the regular day that does not go with the present times. Secondly, we do not believe that the day-to-day registration is, in the terms you make this proposal, the most efficient way to establish a day-control mechanism. You're a member of the Labour Inspectorate and so am I. I don't know what job controls you've done because you're an inspector, because they're usually dedicated to other tasks. As a sub-inspector I have done hundreds of job controls, especially job controls aimed at controlling working time and, on many occasions, at controlling part-time work. It is supposed that with the mandatory registration of the part-time established by the People's Party in 2013, it would have been resolved, but you know that that day-time registration today has become more of an administrative stop - many entrepreneurs sometimes ask you how it is carried out, whether they have to register it or have to sign it the worker or not to sign it - than in an effective mechanism of working time control. We just have to look at the levels of fraud that still exist in part-time. From our point of view, the registration of a day, as I say, is not the most effective system, even one of the particular votes of the Supreme Court judgment points out. There are other options, and I'm going to put two of them on the table. One is the establishment of control mechanisms through electronic systems, which in this case, without imposing any restrictions on employers, can guarantee, on the one hand, the veracity of the data and, on the other hand, external control both by the Labour Inspectorate and, where appropriate, by the workers' representatives. I'll give you another one. Companies may be forced to have means of verification but in a flexible manner, so that by strengthening article 35 of the Workers' Statute it is suggested that if the company does not provide such claims that control mechanism is to reverse the burden of proof and it is up to the employer, in that case, to provide such proof, introducing flexibility to these mechanisms as you tell us. We believe that in this way, with this mechanism of investment of the burden of proof, giving flexibility to entrepreneurs, control would be encouraged but, as I say, with more flexibility for the company, as it opens the possibility of establishing different mechanisms, leaving the company the freedom to choose the best mechanism of control of working time. The third of the reasons is that we are critical of establishing the obligation to register erga omnes. An obligation to register in front of everyone we believe is not the solution. We do not believe that the solution is that they pay just for sinners; that is, a generalized form of control of the worker's time makes no sense because, moreover, it goes against the times and new realities of the forms of work. We just have to think about non-present work, distance work, work combining presence and distance work, telework, trade or work in the new digital economy, in which the traceability of working time makes it totally unnecessary to carry out this daily record. Ladies and gentlemen, the control of housework with traditional working models. The new realities demand us to associate work more and more with results than with times of presence. Even, the Labour Inspectorate of 2016 itself, in its instruction 3/2016, differentiates by sector and establishes campaigns by sector, because the sectors of fraud are very localized. Therefore, before establishing a generic control obligation, we believe it is necessary to carry out an in-depth study of the different sectors, as I say to you, and of their need. Finally, in relation to the right to regular workday - in the proposal it puts 'of the workers', but I understand that they also propose the regular workday of the workers, not only of the workers - we believe it is a mistake; it is a mistake because it is to return to times past that do not go with the current times. And it's basically a mistake for two reasons. The first is that this right to regulate the day is not incompatible with irregular distribution and flexible days. On the other hand, we believe that this right to the irregular distribution of the day is contradictory both with the right to the irregular distribution of the day for business needs, as set out in the Workers' Statute, but also with the right to the irregular distribution for the reconciliation of the family life of the workers, which they themselves claim. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in agreeing with the substance of the matter, but disagreeing both in form and with whom it is addressed, we shall abstain from taking this proposal into consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u12	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u13	Good morning, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Carmelo works in a bar; he was hired for four hours but curra ten; he goes home ground like a zurron and, on top, quiet about what can happen. Yaiza works in a bank; she has two runs and a master's degree, but the hours she stays every afternoon do not charge them. Gara works in a clothing store of a famous multinational owned by a very rich Galician gentleman; she has a broken turn and is forced to arrive before and leave after the time she puts in her contract. [[A Member: That's a lie!]] Well, can I finish, sir? I'm on my turn. Well, I could be telling you this, even if it bothers you, cases for hours and hours and hours. To be exact, for three and a half million hours, which are the hours that are worked free in our country every week, that are not charged, free. [[Applauds]] It's three and a half million hours and, I repeat, every week. This is completely illegal and, of course, unconstitutional as well; but I don't see any patriots, of those who carry the flag on their wrists and who have accounts in Switzerland, of course, shouting in the sky. And I think they should, because the systematic violation of the law and the Constitution does break Spain, the part in half. [[Applauds]] And I'm going to give you six reasons. First, they are stealing money directly from the pockets of working people; low wages are a consequence of this robbery. So, unfortunately, it is normal for us to have the figure of exclusion and poverty that we knew yesterday thanks to the EAPN report, the European Network against Poverty, which I do not know if you will know. For an idea to be made, in the Canary Islands, 44% of our population is at risk of exclusion and poverty, many of whom are workers. Second, we're losing jobs. According to the estimates of the unions, we lose 326,000 jobs because of the lack of time control. I think that with a 17% unemployment rate we are not about to waste jobs. Thirdly, it involves a fraud of gigantic conditions for both the Treasury and Social Security. Obviously, if they don't charge the hours, they don't pay them either. Fourthly, they jeopardize the present and future viability of our public pension system, although I know that you do not care about that either. Fifthly, the obvious inability to reconcile directly affects the future of our country: it diminishes birth, makes it difficult to raise, and there are so many rights of all kinds, sports, cultural, etc. These fraudulent extensions make it incompatible to have a job with having a life outside of it. Sixthly, the risk of having an accident at your job increases considerably, including the chances of dying at your job. The latest statistics of the ministry itself speak for themselves, I don't need to quote them here. For us it is essential to record and report the calculation of actual hours of work, but not only to the labour authority, but also to the worker directly and to his legal representation, to the trade union representation, who are called to exercise that control in the first place. Even if we sent three Piolin ships loaded with labour inspectors - which, by the way, would not be bad - we could not solve the situation, because the problem lies in the weakening of collective bargaining - his fault - and in the loss of union power and the capacity of the organization of the working people - also his fault -. Being fully aware of the gravity of this matter, and complying with our electoral programme - which not all of us do - and the commitment to repeal labour reform, we present a modification of the Workers' Statute in all matters relating to collective bargaining and daytime control. And what did the People's Party do, with the invaluable help of its citizens' friends, of course? To veto the initiative, a veto that seeks to humiliate five million people who voted for us and the rest of the working people of our country, which implies a direct aggression to the separation of powers - we already know what matters to you the separation of powers - and therefore to the basic principles of any democracy that is valued. For the People's Party, the separation of powers, workers' rights and democracy themselves are not an advance of humanity, they are uncomfortable obstacles to doing what they like best: stealing, exploiting, looting and dividing the country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u14	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Romero Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs De Frutos, this non-law proposal not only amends Article 34.1 of the Workers' Statute, but also proposes to amend Article 4.2 of the same Statute, as well as Article 7.5 of Royal Decree 4/2000 of 4 August 2000 on offences and sanctions in the social order. Perhaps the most important and controversial is - from my point of view - the amendment to Article 4.2 of the Workers' Statute. I read it and I say why. Article 4.2 of the current text of the Workers' Statute states: 'In the employment relationship, workers have the right to...', and goes on to say each of the rights that workers have. You also amend point (g), which will be discussed below. In their proposal they say: In the employment relationship, the workers have the right to... That is, you replace 'the workers' by 'the workers'. I do not know whether that is a lapsus or not, but what is now announced in the normative text as a series of workers' rights, both for male and female workers, in its proposal eliminates male workers from staying alone with females. That is what I call limiting the rights of workers to leave them only to the workers. I do not think there is a social trend in gender equality in all spheres of life, including in the workplace. In relation to work, article 4.2 establishes for all workers a number of rights, such as the right to effective occupation, promotion and vocational training, not to be directly or indirectly discriminated against for employment on the grounds of sex, religion, race, social condition, disability, etc., to a policy of prevention of occupational risks, respect for privacy, etc. Mrs. De Frutos, what do you intend? Eliminate all these rights to male workers so that they stay only for the workers, as you announce in your non-law proposal? I am sure that is not the case, but it must be made clear that, as it is written in its non-legislative proposal, it can lead to confusion, to much confusion. On the other hand, it is intended to add a letter, letter (g), which is stated as the right to the regular distribution of his day. The distribution of the ordinary working day is an element that orders periods of rest and work in order to bring together the productive needs of the company and the needs of rest and reconciliation of workers. In fact, the legislator assigns its regulation to the will of the parties and to the will of the collective subjects, establishing a number of minimum standards that can be improved by collective agreement. The Spanish legislation does not exist or allow the so-called contract on demand or the contract on demand, and the worker must know at all times the working hours, in addition to other data. On the other hand, you do not say anything about what is laid down in Article 34.2 of the Workers' Statute, which regulates the irregular distribution of the day throughout the year. There is a clear contradiction, therefore, with what you claim in this non-law proposal. This will certainly lead to endless litigation in the jurisdictional sphere, so that the ground clauses will be short in that sense. You too forget about the new trends in the labour market, such as flexibility, digitalisation, teleworking, target work, etc. Getting women workers out of the context of flexibility, far from providing them with rights, deprives them of opportunities to stay on the labour market with their full professional expectations. Flaco favor you, Mrs. De Frutos, with this proposal not of law to the workers. An irregular distribution of the day supported by the social partners, with guarantees of security, knowledge and transparency, will undoubtedly be more favourable for the worker and also for the company. With regard to article 34.1, which calls for the daily registration of working hours, the time of entry and departure, and that this registration is available to the worker for a possible test, as well as for the inspection carried out at the workplace and for four years, it is practically reflected in the current article 35.5 of the Workers' Statute. It is true that the Supreme Court in a number of judgments has spoken of the need for clarification of the obligation to keep a time register and to make it easier for the worker to prove the performance of overtime, but this matter is being assessed in the framework of the social dialogue, with the participation of the social partners, at the so-called table which has been set up on quality in employment. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs De Frutos, let us be cautious, which is the first thing a ruler and legislator must do; let us be cautious and let all the social actors agree. If this is not possible, then it will be the Legislature who says the minimums to which they must adhere. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u16	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, amending Law 1/1996 of 10 January 1996 on free legal assistance. [[File number 122/000109]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u17	We continue with the item on the agenda for the consideration of the bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, amending Act No. 1/1996 of 10 January 1996 on Free Legal Assistance. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr De Barrionuevo Gener has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I turn to the amendment of Law 1/1996 of 10 January on Free Legal Assistance, which my parliamentary group has tabled in this House. This is a technical modification to provide a reasonable solution in cases where, due to practical difficulties in certain provinces and smaller islands, the composition of the free legal aid commission under the General Administration of the State is conditioned by the existence of officials belonging to subgroup A1, who also act as secretaries of this commission. With the amendment that we propose, it is that, when the needs of the service so require or are necessary for the proper functioning of the legal aid commissions under the General Administration of the State, the functions of secretary of the latter may be exercised by officials of Group A, regardless of the subgroup to which they belong, for the territorial management of the Ministry of Justice or, failing that, for the delegation or subdelegation of the Government concerned. Article 119 of our Constitution provides that justice shall be free of charge when a law so provides and, in any case, for those who prove to have insufficient resources to fight, all this on the basis of obtaining effective judicial protection as enshrined in article 24 of our Magna Charter. In order to make this right to access to justice real, effective and non-discriminatory, Law 1/1996 of 10 January on Free Legal Assistance was adopted, article 10 of which tells us about the composition of free legal assistance commissions. This composition, which takes place in the territorial sphere of what we call ministerial territory, is composed of the Dean of the Bar Association, the Dean of the Bar Association, a State lawyer and an official who acts as secretary, belonging to group A1. The main function of these commissions is the recognition of the right to free legal assistance, its denial or revocation. Therefore, in order to facilitate the important role that this body has entrusted to grant the right of free legal assistance to applicants, it is for this reason that we propose today this amendment which aims to contribute to the efforts of the purposes pursued by this law and to ensure the effective exercise of the right to effective judicial protection. With this amendment of Law 1/1996, on Free Legal Assistance, we only seek to amend the additional provision second bis, under the title: Membership of the commissions of free legal assistance. Exceptional cases. The new text would read as follows: Where the need for the service so requires and is necessary for the proper functioning of the free legal aid commissions under the General Administration of the State, the functions of secretary may be exercised by public officials belonging to Group A, for the territorial management of the relevant Ministry of Justice or, failing that, for the delegation or sub-delegation of the Government concerned. As you will see, ladies and gentlemen, it is to change the term 'official belonging to the professional subgroup A1' to 'group A', which is a much broader term encompassing subgroup A1 and subgroup A2, as developed in Article 76 of the Basic Staff Regulations. For all that, ladies and gentlemen, and without prejudice to addressing within the subcommittee for the study and definition of the national justice strategy a deeper regulation of the modification of free legal aid - which is more than necessary and which I am also convinced will be the result of the work of this subcommittee and will be achieved thanks to the consensus of all the groups that make up it - is why I call for the vote in favour of taking into consideration for the processing of this amendment, for the technical reasons mentioned, of the additional second bis provision of Law 1/1996 on Free Legal Assistance. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u20	Yes, Madam President, I will speak from the seat. I'll do it briefly. Our group, with regard to this proposal for a law, wants to express its opposite position, not so much because of the content of the proposal - which certainly has a technical content - but because of this way of legislating and dealing with things. Just two years ago, a profound amendment was made to the Law on Free Legal Assistance, taking advantage of another law, the Law on Civil Prosecutions. The Act introduced a third final provision amending twenty-three articles of the Free Legal Assistance Act of 1996 and, among them, amending the composition of the commission recognizing the rights of free legal assistance, including the establishment of the secretariat, with a specific composition and a specific titling group. But it did not end there, because that same amendment through the Civil Prosecution Act just two years ago - on 5 October it entered into force - already provides an exception to that composition and to that secretariat of the free justice commissions, which is the second additional provision bis. A general regime is amended, established and an exception is made. And two years have passed and they intend to bring to the House, by way of a proposal, a counter-exception to that exception. Not only is the general scheme modified and an additional exception introduced, but it is now intended to introduce new exceptions, not only to change group A1 for group A, which is more extensive and includes group A1 and group A2. The reasons for the exception before were more limited than now, because before it was said 'exceptional needs of the service' which had to be justified, and now, to the exceptional needs of the service, it is added that 'it is necessary for the proper functioning of the commissions'. I stated at first that we were going to oppose it because we felt that it was not a way to legislate, especially when a few months ago we amended the Law on Free Legal Assistance, also through a proposal, because we had an agreement between all the groups since the taxation of the professionals who provide the service, lawyers and prosecutors was in question. There was a general consensus, but I also have to remember that we rejected each and every one of the amendments that did not follow that point with the argument that an in-depth review of the Free Legal Aid Act should be made. We maintain the position we held in that session: if we have to review the Law of Free Legal Assistance, let's review it, but let's not play the spike and patches according to the convenience of each group. So, in line with what we have been holding in the last reform that was agreed for the taxation of the professions that provide the service, this would be the cause for opposing at this time the consideration of this proposed law. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u21	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez Balsera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Taking advantage of the fact that the debate is legal, I want to begin by greeting the judges and magistrates who are in the guest gallery today on the occasion of a seminar, and they will allow me to do so especially to Fr. Francisco Sánchez Zamorano, president of the Provincial Court of Córdoba, which is the constituency I am honored to represent. All of you, welcome. Returning to the debate, the Citizens' Group will vote in favour of taking into consideration this proposed law which seeks to reform Law 1/1996 of 10 January on Free Legal Assistance. And we will do so because we share the concern of the proposing group about the right to free legal assistance and that this fundamental right, this right to effective judicial protection regardless of the remedies for litigation, is provided through a quality public service. Law 45/2015 already made some amendments that, in addition to resolving a number of interpretative doubts and extending the recognition of the right to victims of certain crimes, such as terrorism or gender-based violence, also introduced variations in the composition of these free legal aid commissions. This composition is precisely the only object of the proposed amendment. It should be recalled that free legal aid commissions are the formal bodies responsible for the final decision on the recognition of this right, on the recognition of the right to free legal aid. Given this fundamental work and in order to ensure its proper functioning, it seems appropriate to us to facilitate the constitution of the same by introducing the possibility of replacing the civil servant who does the work of secretary during its development. At this point, I have to highlight the work done by the professionals, the representatives of the lawyer and the public prosecutor and the public officials who make up these commissions, meeting every fifteen days or so and spending a day to resolve the hundreds of applications submitted in their field of action. I must also point out that they do so selflessly, abandoning their offices and their usual occupations, devoting time to citizenship, which they then have to recover. That is why it is so important that these committees can be set up without difficulty and work normally, because losing only one of these sessions, if the secretary official were not available, would mean the accumulation and delay of hundreds of files. But what shows this reform, like others I mentioned in my speech, is what we from Citizens have already had the opportunity to say from this rostrum and to propose in parliamentary initiatives: a new law on free legal aid is needed. We propose a new law adapted to the current social, economic and legislative reality which implies an improvement of the service for both citizens and the professionals and the schools that provide it. We want a public and quality service for the citizen, but we also want the work of professionals working on their own initiative to be distinguished and recognized, which has a high component of social commitment and solidarity. It is necessary to develop the recommendations of the Xth Report of the Observatory of Free Justice, by introducing the services of prison legal aid where they are still lacking and by creating a special office in the field of international protection. It was necessary to incorporate all the recommendations on free justice that had recently been adopted in that State Covenant against Gender-based Violence and it was also necessary to update and unify the scales of office shifts with common minimum criteria and to end delays in payments. It is our intention, ladies and gentlemen, to include all these proposals in the national justice strategy, the extension of which we have agreed to adopt today in the Commission, where we are sure that we will have the support of all groups so that we can soon have a new law on free legal aid. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u23	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs.Elizo Serrano has the floor. Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u24	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Our parliamentary group has been surprised by the proposal brought to plenary today by the People's Group, which is to amend an additional provision for the extension of the relevant officials to the Committee on Free Legal Assistance. The proposal put forward by the People's Party is limited - that is the whole reform - to changing the officials responsible for that committee so that they are not only from Group A1 but also from Group A; that is all we are debating in this legislative proposal. This proposal for the reform of the Law on Free Legal Assistance is surprising when just three months ago by the People's Group, by the Socialist Group and by citizens, a reform was approached, which we consider to be serious, with the agreement of these three groups and which for the first time in the history of this country agreed to all associations of lawyers of non-institutional legal service to oppose that reform, a reform that opened up the guidelines and the basis for the privatization of a service that has been assumed honestly and decently for years and years by lawyers and lawyers of this country. [[Applauds]] And as always, these changes are intended on time and without reaching previous agreements with all the parliamentary forces, because what we have clear in the Group of the United Podemos-Common Podemos-En Marea is that a new law of free legal aid is needed. This group is so concerned about the reform that, according to those lawyers and lawyers, with all the associations, we have filed an appeal of unconstitutionality, being the first time that this country's Constitutional Court was brought to such a serious and beneficial matter - or should be - as guaranteeing a public service for many citizens. The lawyers of this country's shift pay an average of 135 euros for each case they bring. It is a collective abandoned by the hand of the institutional lawyer who does not preserve his rights and who does not preserve the right of defence and effective judicial guardianship. This situation has been extended by each of the Governments in turn, due to the lack of attention to these needs. That is why we are surprised today that the Group of the European People's Party, in the midst of a serious political situation in this country, intends to carry out a legislative proposal of as little detail as the modification of the competent technicians to assume the powers of a Committee on Free Legal Assistance. We are witnessing a situation that we believe to be serious, which is depriving this House of powers and legislative capacity. Not only are we talking about the government's disconformity so that there are no legislative texts that come to debate in this House, we are witnessing the indefinite extension of amendments to the legislative proposals that have indeed passed through this House, as this proposal shows, in short, a proposal that absolutely lacks the political content that this country's citizens need. [[Applauds]] In short, the text that seeks to be patched up with this new reform needs the consensus of this House to definitively address the right of defence and the right to free legal aid, which genuinely protects the rights of citizens, which ensures a service with guarantees for the provision of the same, which protects lawyers. Therefore, we cannot agree with a new empty patch of a text guaranteeing a fundamental right, and we present our strongest protest to the legislative vacuum situation in this House with indefinite extensions of amendments to legislative texts. If you want to talk about rights-building, we'll be here. In order to patch up the situation, we will say no and, therefore, we will say no to the legislative proposal that the People's Party is bringing here today. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u25	Mr Campo Moreno has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, a greeting to the comrades of the judiciary who are accompanying us today and I regret that it is in this debate. We are discussing the amendment of a law that affects us daily in our professional duties such as Law 1/1996 on Free Legal Assistance and we are told that we want to amend because with Law 42/2015, of 5 October, I think I remember, many aspects of the Law 1/2000 on Civil Prosecution were changed. It affected the composition of the members of the Free Legal Assistance Commission and, in particular, the official representing the ministry on these commissions, which establishes the law in force today that has to belong to the sub-group body A1. With the excuse of further progress in improving management, we are brought with us nothing but a bill on this huge particular and we are told that we must change it for a member of Group A. Evidently, it makes it easy for the ministry to attend these commissions. Ladies and gentlemen, really, and understand this in terms of the Royal Spanish Academy of Language, I believe that this bill is an insult to citizenship and an insult to this House. I will try to explain why this lack of appreciation of the proposal before us today. This House has been trying since its trumped-up opening to democratic renewal and regeneration, having set up committees and subcommittees on this matter. We want to gain citizenship so that we can re-appreciate it for the political class, but what can this citizen think who understands that the amendment of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, in times still of enormous economic zozobra, goes on the modification of the official who must attend it because some in some managements of some provinces the ministry does not have bodies or sub-group A1 scales? Ladies and gentlemen, with this advance that my group's position is going to be a no, but a no for this reason, because here, when we discussed the amendment of the Law on Free Legal Assistance just three months ago, we discussed what it had to be, and we snaked in order not to do so, the Law on VAT and to be able to solve the problems in which the Directorate-General for Taxes had put us, interpreting or misinterpreting judgments of the Court of the European Communities, and we amended the Law on Free Legal Assistance by the procedure of urgency and in one reading precisely in order not to charge the citizen with VAT for the provision of these free legal assistance services. But we said in that debate in a unanimous way that we had to address what is truly medullary and essential, and what is truly medullary and essential is that this Law on Free Legal Assistance needs to be amended and the requirements that must be met in order to be able to access it must be seen and analysed. The specialization of the professionals who provide these services must be seen and the ways and means in which the citizen can be satisfied with his or her effective judicial protection when he or she lacks economic resources must be analysed. Moreover, in the absence of this contempt to which I refer, we have a subcommittee in the Committee on Justice and, indeed, as we have heard from the spokesman for Citizens this very morning, we agreed on the request in plenary for an extension so that we could draw conclusions so that we could establish something as important as the strategy for the modernisation of justice. Well, by sorting out the existence of this Commission, there is a proposal for a law that we have just seen: to change a subgroup. I certainly hope that the citizens do not know what we are discussing here this afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, my group understands that other ways of doing politics are necessary. Consensus is necessary, because, although it is not an end, it is a way of doing politics, that policy that you have abandoned, like your seats. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u27	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u28	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on the reinstatement of the unemployment benefit for persons over fifty-two years of age. Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this initiative presented by the Socialist Group has an important purpose and a number of reasons. The purpose is to recover the subsidy for unemployed people over fifty-two years old that the People's Party Government abolished with the 2012 labour reform, and the reasons are of a different nature: reasons for social justice, because it is about recovering the rights cut off with the excuse of the crisis, especially in relation to vulnerable groups, such as the unemployed over fifty-two years old. There are also reasons for economic efficiency, because the Government is committed to financing the recovery at the expense of the capacity of workers and the unemployed to consume and to save, and this is a strategy, ladies and gentlemen, wrong, typical of weak, fragile economies. And there are reasons, why not say, for political opportunity, because, while it is proclaimed that the economy is growing wind up in companies that boast of millionaire profits, it is absolutely unbearable to keep those brutal and unjust cuts that applied to the cry of 'we cannot live above our possibilities'. Indeed, with the economy growing to 3% today, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, paying the subsidy for unemployed people over fifty-two years is equal to living above our possibilities? We understand that no, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] The treatment that has been given during these years to the unemployed has been unfair, very unfair, but the treatment that has been given to the unemployed who are most difficult to reintegrate into the labour market, to the unemployed who are over fifty-two years old, ladies and gentlemen, a ray of anger, a rage so difficult to assume as to explain. I do not know whether many Spaniards are aware that public spending on unemployment benefits has fallen in our country from 30 billion in 2011 to 18 billion in 2017, EUR 12 billion in cutbacks, a cut impossible to justify, because it is true that there is less unemployment, but it is also true that unemployment, unfortunately, has not fallen as much as expenditure on benefits. Unemployment has not fallen by more than 40% and there are still more than 2 million unemployed Spaniards who receive no state aid. The third quarter of this year's EPA talks about more than 3,900,000 unemployed and the Public Employment Service paid only 1,900,000 benefits last August, i.e. there are more than 2 million unemployed in our country who do not receive any state aid and with the economy growing to 3%, ladies and gentlemen, they are allowing spending on unemployment benefits to be cut year after year. It is unjustifiable, how can it be justified that, with more than 2 million unemployed without any assistance, expenditure on unemployment benefits should be cut year after year? I don't know if they can sleep well at night in the Ministry of Employment; it would certainly cost me instead. I insist that the treatment of the most vulnerable unemployed, those over fifty-two years old, has been more than unjust pure bloodbath since 2012 in three phases. First, they thought of facilitating the dismissal of older than 50 years old from large companies, removing the restrictions to include them in employment regulation files. When they made sure they had many older than 50 years on the street, they cut off their benefits. Secondly, those over fifty-two years of age directly eliminated the subsidy - not cut, but cut for those over fifty-two years of age - and those over fifty-five years of age made it difficult for them to have access to the subsidy by means of accounting for the income of the whole family, not only of the beneficiary but of the whole family. Elimination of the allowance for over fifty-two years of age and difficulty in access to the allowance for over fifty-five years of age. But not content with sending the 50-year-olds to the street and cutting off the benefit, in addition to the third phase, they gave a tijeretazo to their pension, forcing them to retire early and denying them the possibility of filling the contribution gaps as they had done before. First they facilitate the dismissal of those over 50, then they cut off their unemployment benefit and finally they give a tijeretazo to their pension. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, what have the fifty-two-year-olds of this country done to justify this anger? Are those polls really believed to say that the vote of the over 50s is consolidated for the right in this country? [[Applauds]] Do they believe that or do they think that the over 50s have already accumulated enough savings and wealth to survive despite the crisis? For I am going to mislead you in both arguments, because the vast majority of the unemployed over fifty-two years old, whom you deny the subsidy, live on the brink of exclusion, many of them with their families at a cost. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you that there is no consolidated vote for anyone here. The vote is earned day by day and with these kinds of decisions the vote is also lost day by day. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to do justice and correct this situation. Therefore, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we propose to recover the allowance for unemployed people over fifty-two years old and to maintain it until it is necessary, that is, until the older person gets a decent job or retires on an ordinary basis without any additional cuts. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing it for social justice; we are proposing it for economic efficiency; we are also proposing it for political opportunity, because our economy is growing and it is now absolutely unbearable to maintain the cuts of the past, and we are proposing it also for dignity, because the dignity of a people is also measured by how it treats its most disadvantaged and vulnerable groups. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u30	In defence of the amendment put forward by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cano Fuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u31	Thank you very much. Madam President, before I begin, I would like to tell our Catalan brothers that, while Junts pel Yes, the CUP and the bench of the absent people here do not want to go to Parliament to work to discuss those issues that they call ordinary autonomy, the Congress and the Spanish Senate are open to all, Catalans and the rest of the Spanish as free and equal citizens. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the matter brought to us today by the Socialist Group is very relevant. I have to tell you that almost a million unemployed people over 50 are long-term unemployed who cannot support their families. Gentlemen of the People's Party, since you are in the government the long-term unemployment rate has only increased, and today there are 95,400 more unemployed than in the same quarter of 2012. You have taken care of this, and you are going to allow me to repeat the matters that the Socialist Party parliamentarian has previously commented on. First, they facilitated the dismissal of those over the age of 50, although these measures were not only used by companies, but also by others who did not share them so much by calling them demolitions of workers' rights. Mr Simancas will recall this quite well, since the Socialist Party and the Communist Party used these same measures as the People's Party put in place; they raised the age of access to unemployment benefit from fifty-two to fifty-five years; they tightened the access to benefit not only by taking into account personal income but also family income, and for the rest, ladies and gentlemen, they eliminated the contribution for unemployment of 125 % of the minimum base, affecting both the amounts of the benefit and the future retirement pension. To each and every one of your lordships surely comes to mind, to mind, some neighbor who finds himself in this dramatic situation. I believe that today, ladies and gentlemen, the bells are redoubling for the long-term unemployed for more than fifty-two years, and all thanks to the measures put in place by the People's Party. Not only has the People's Party left almost a million long-term unemployed, poor today, but they are also going to be the poor of the future, seeing the future pension reduced by more than 40%. By the way, ladies and gentlemen - and it is unfortunate that the Minister of Employment and Social Security is not here - is this the way to square the deficit to pensions? to clean hammering and in the meantime rescuing with more than 5 million the highways of our country? I am already telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group we are going to be with the worst people in our country and we are going to vote in favour of the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal, although we believe that we must improve it. To that end, we have tabled an additional amendment, so that we can put in more resources, manage them better and that they can increase the coverage rate by reaching more citizens; I hope they will accept it. But, ladies and gentlemen, if there is anything wrong with our labour market, it is that it is unable to absorb substantially the long-term unemployed in terms of coverage and re-entry into the labour market, as other countries in our environment do. They deserve a second chance because we owe them all our efforts, especially in helping them to reintegrate into work, which on the other hand is what they are really demanding from us. In the various economic crises both the management by the People's Party and the Socialist Party exceeded 20% of unemployment and both parties share the average unemployment of 18% during their governments. This is not because Spain is different, but because bipartisanism has not wanted to modernize our precarious labour market and it does not offer stability and growth. With regard to this, all Spaniards already know that it was Citizens who agreed as a demand with the Socialist Party and the People's Party to incorporate the stable contract and other measures, such as the training check, already with 1200 million, or the Activation Programme for Employment, with 258 million. Those who are already in this situation - and I am finishing, Madam President - cannot wait any longer, nor can those who unfortunately will soon enter this situation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon again. Mr Simancas, I make it official that the two seats of the Navarro People's Union will vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal. It is no coincidence that in just an hour and a half the Navarro People's Union supported two proposals, the one in the previous case, concerning the amendment of Article 34 of the Royal Legislative Decree with regard to the registration of workers, and the one referring, in this case, to the re-establishment of a benefit, absolutely necessary for the time that this country has spent, for persons over fifty-two years and in long-term unemployment. Nor is it a coincidence that for twenty-four years the Union of the Navarro People has reached stable agreements with the Socialist Party of Navarra to carry out a community and leave it in those parameters in which it left it in educational, social, etc. terms. Let me tell you, Mr Simancas, that the Navarro People's Union has always been defined as a progressive party in relation to its social policies and has always assumed responsibilities in the outlaw government of Navarra. What my party is not going to do is enter the 'and you more', nor will it go in to say who curtailed the rights, nor will it argue that this is how the arks were found the party that entered in the year 2011 in the Government of Spain. It is not going to get into that because it is the time for the Joint Group and, secondly, because it is not the time to look at the past but rather the time to look at the present and, especially, the future of our country. This issue, like many others - I will not take any importance from others - is very relevant, because there are many families who are going through it frankly wrong to this day, despite the indicators that seem to witness some economic recovery. According to the General Law on Social Security, SEPE has competence for active employment policies in Spain. As far as passive policies are concerned, the responsibility lies with each autonomous community and, in our case, with the Foral Community of Navarre. Here I am able to speak with a certain degree because I was fortunate enough to be a social policy adviser to the previous Government and against him I had some disputes about the subsidiarity of certain benefits which correspond to passive policies, i.e. autonomous ones - basic income, social inclusion income or guaranteed income, as it is now called in the Community of Navarre - and the benefits which belong to SEPE. I also know firsthand that the most disadvantaged profile is that of people over fifty-two years of age and with several members in that family unit. We are therefore in favour of urging the central Government to reinstate that benefit and therefore have our support once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u35	With your permission, Madam President, I will speak briefly from the seat to point out that we are aware that there is a clear situation of unprotectiveness for people over fifty-two years of age. Different factors have led them to a specific problem, namely the expulsion from the labour market. This population has not only more experience but more qualifications and, despite this and under different circumstances that I am not going to deal with now, it has been affected by this situation. I would also like to point out that this is a structural situation, since despite the fact that it has been an active population and that it could be reintegrated into the world of work, there are no concrete reinsertion activities in the form of active policies that will allow its knowledge and skills to be reused in the world of work. This is also a consequence of the generation of a situation of poverty: non-wage, non-contribution and pre-retirement that they have had no choice but to assume. It is true that this situation is caused, as I said, by various factors, and among them we must not forget that of the legislative acts that have expelled different people from the world of protection. We are also aware that, in parallel with the claim that is being made here, there are protection systems that already recognize certain levels of care that are proving insufficient, in which, as our own experience in Euskadi, we have an RGI, an income guarantee income, which we believe serves by linking this situation to the factor of employability, so obviously we cannot fail to wish others what we can offer ourselves also in our own community. We understand that it is, that it is indeed necessary to promote certain policies of protection for this group; it must be done from a determined intervention of the Legislative Power; it must be done from - as I have just pointed out - the promotion of the scope of the employability of these people. That is precisely why we are going to support this non-legislative proposal, although I would also like to warn the proponents that we believe that there is some agreement as to the purpose of this non-legislative proposal with legislative action, which is now under way - precisely today the deadline for tabling amendments - on the minimum income guarantee law which can have a significant degree of agreement in this respect. I simply wanted to point this out so that, where appropriate, we all strive to avoid leaving out of the field of protection those people who are currently the most disadvantaged in the workplace, those over fifty-two and fifty-five years old, to whom we will continue to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u36	Thank you very much. Mrs Pita Cárdenes has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u37	Thank you, President. The Socialist Group brings us a non-legislative proposal calling on the Government to read as a matter of urgency: Take measures to restore the unemployment benefit for more than fifty-two years under the conditions previously in place for the 2012 and 2013 reforms. We have no doubt that the older than fifty-two years have been one of the weakest links in our society during and after the devastating effects of the so-called economic crisis. In principle, it seems legally and logically that the PSOE tries to oppose the Rajoy Executive by presenting an initiative like this. The question we ask ourselves is the degree of veracity of this proposal. Do we believe in the will to change a party that, as well as bringing such proposals, helps to hold the government that has implemented them in power? That's the question we ask ourselves. How can we believe in the will to change a party that, at the same time as bringing such initiatives, helps to hold the People's Party in power? To what PSOE do we find today, before the PSOE of the 2010 labor reform or before which now you want to defend the workers of their reform and of the 2012 one? Before Pedro Sánchez's PSOE or Susana Díaz's? Of course, it would be urgent to define them, because it is not the same for citizens to vote for a party that defends the long-term unemployed of the anti-social measures of the Rajoy government, that to one that supports the government through - let me adjective - coward of abstention; and they have done so twice: in the investiture of 2016 and in the presentation of the motion of censure in 2017. Of course, we live in a state of democratic exceptionality, with a Government encircled by its own cases of corruption; a Government, moreover, which has not only politicized justice and generated an unprecedented territorial crisis in our recent democratic history, but is now also pursuing ideas. A weak Government, whose support has triggered discretion in the administration of the public, generating an unprecedented investment imbalance through the purchase of political will. If the socialists really wanted to change the reality of the long-term unemployed over 50 years old, they would not be content to present this non-law proposal, which they know very well does not compromise this Government at all. You would be introducing a bill or, in any case, supporting the bill that we have tabled from our group. A pension bill dealing with the revaluation of pensions under the CPI, which proposes a reduction in the years needed to qualify for unemployment benefits for workers over fifty-two years of age; which even offers the possibility to retire at sixty-one years with 100% of the regulatory base for workers who are thirty-five years of age. In short, they would be supporting a return to the pre-implementation model of Law 27/2011 on updating, adapting and modernizing the social security system, and Law 23/2013, which regulates the sustainability factor and the rate of revaluation of the pension system, which are the two pillars that have sustained the ruthless attack of the PP on people in long-term unemployment. [[A Member of Parliament: Unforgivable!]] Unforgivable. You are to correct, ladies and gentlemen! [[Applauds]] They don't have anything else to do. They have to talk to each other like that. You don't do that. You're still installed in that simulated opposition, aren't you? That simulated opposition based on winks that translate into no improvement for the majority, while the working people of this country continue to live - we have heard here clear and high - an anomaly only comparable to the exceptional situation that our democracy is going through. [[Rumors]] Exceptionality. Do you know how many projects have vetoed these that correct us? More than 40 bills. [[Applauds]] More than 40 bills! Bills on which neither debate is permitted, but which, if adopted, would constitute a legal and binding contract. Not the PNL, the bill. [[Rumors]] I'd miss more! Don't change, ladies and gentlemen. We are going to vote in favour of this GNP - it could not be otherwise - but with a deep sense of impotence, because we know what the end of this GNP is going to be, the place where your differing allies are going to place it, which is in the drawer of the forgotten of the GNP, and you know it. In any case - I conclude, Madam President - we will continue to urge you to join in the exchange-rate measures that this country is calling for. Let me conclude, as the granddaughter of a pro socialist - my grandfather - remind you of the phrase that for years appeared in the cards of the Socialist Party, signed by Pablo Iglesias Posse - not Turrion - who said: They are socialists not to love the silence of their ideas, nor to recreate themselves with their greatness and with the spirit of justice that encourages them; they are socialists to carry them out everywhere. There, in those parts, we'll meet. [[Applauds.-A lady MP: Learned!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u38	Mr Candon Adam has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, after reading your GNP carefully, I would like to make a couple of comments, because it seems that there has not been any work here to provide answers and coverage to the unemployed. You don't remember how you left the country anymore, because from those dusts come these muds. They do not remember a deficit that was but which was later not - it was higher - a risk premium that was in the clouds, a very high debt interest and a brutal job destruction. Thanks to your policies, you led three million people to unemployment. They remember, don't they? After that, in the 10th Legislature, many reforms were launched: reducing the deficit, consolidating economic growth, creating jobs and no one was left without coverage, because then in Spain we were almost 30% unemployed. Today, thanks to the policies of the People's Party, we have an unemployment rate of 17.22%, and today we have recovered 70% of the lost employment. Where 1,200 jobs per day were previously destroyed, 2700 jobs per day are created and created today, equivalent to 500,000 jobs per year. Today Spain is again over 18.5 million employed and the unemployment rate among children under 25 has been reduced by 50.7%. All that, and more, thanks to a sensitive and committed government to employment, and thanks to the effort and sacrifice of all Spaniards. Are these really the aggressive policies of the People's Party? Whether you like it or not, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, today we are the country that grows the most and the country that creates the most jobs in Europe. What pursued and pursued the amendment of Royal Decree-Law 5/2013 as regards the allowance of over fifty-five years of age is an appropriation of other benefits, so that the income of the family unit is taken into account when granting the allowance. It should be borne in mind that this is a non-contributory grant of indefinite duration which benefits 340 000 people and that, if not for that change, in many cases access to this grant was converted into a clear income transfer to citizens living in family centres with a credit that was certainly incompatible with the receipt of a grant. The only change in regulation is to limit this subsidy to situations of real need. Ladies and gentlemen, it is to make it more equitable and fairer, but no one - I repeat, no one - who really needs this subsidy has stopped receiving it. The bloodiest thing, however, is that the People's Party Government has legislated against older people who are unemployed because of the crisis. In addition, the Royal Decree, to strengthen the capacity to reintegrate older workers into the labour market, provides that older workers who are not entitled to benefits and who wish to remain active will be given preferential attention by public employment services in the context of the implementation of active employment policies. The regulation of the penalization of those companies that included workers aged 50 or more in collective redundancies was amended, limiting the obligation of the contribution to those companies that make discriminatory redundancies with older workers. What we have been avoiding is precisely that the staffing adjustments are based on older workers, who are the most difficult to reintegrate into the labour market afterwards. I'm finishing up. We must remind the Socialist Party's ladies and gentlemen that we have recovered two out of three jobs lost with the crisis, that since the worst time in February 2013, unemployment has fallen by 1,630,000 people and created 2,185,000 jobs, and that today we have 1,012 000 unemployed fewer and 1,106 000 more members of social security than in December 2011. I'm done. Recovery and employment have come, to stay, to people from all corners of our country. In annual terms, unemployment has been reduced in all ages, in both men and women, and in all sectors. It is time to continue to support a serious, responsible Government, which, on the basis of the dialogue, continues with the reformist path that has been so successful in terms of growth and employment over the past four years. We still have a long way to go and a lot to work on, that is obvious, but we have a challenge, ladies and gentlemen: twenty million occupied by 2020, whether you like it or not. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u40	I ask Mr Simancas Simancas whether he accepts his group's amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u41	Yes, we accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u42	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on Impulsing THE CELEBRATION ON 6 DECEMBER 2018 OF THE 'AVERAGE ANNIVERSARY FRAMEWORK OF THE SPANISH CONSTITUTION OF 1978'. [[File number 162/000430]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u43	We then proceed to the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning the promotion of the celebration on December 6, 2018 of the fortieth anniversary of the Spanish Constitution of 1978. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, Mr Posada Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 6 December 2018, 40 years after the adoption of our Constitution will be fulfilled. The People's Group, through this non-legislative proposal, intends to give maximum emphasis to the commemoration of a transcendental fact in our history. The Government is therefore urged to promote the necessary measures for the celebration of the fortieth anniversary of the Spanish Constitution of 1978, promoting its own activities and supporting those carried out by the General Courts, autonomous parliaments, institutions, organizations, universities and educational centres, as well as associations representing civil society, and above all initiatives that inevitably involve citizen participation. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish people, called for a referendum, decided to grant a Constitution which was the legal framework of reference for our collective coexistence and the meeting point for all Spaniards of all political tendencies. The 1978 Constitution has provided Spain with the longest period of democratic stability in our recent history, has enabled Spain to achieve levels of progress and well-being comparable to those of the most prosperous countries in Europe, and has provided a solid foundation for progress together and for providing us with a space of coexistence that all Spaniards could share. Its 40th anniversary, I believe, is an occasion to renew our adherence and loyalty to the Constitution and to advocate for its strength and validity, but also to commit ourselves to publicizing and publicizing constitutional values to the younger generations, to the Spanish of tomorrow. There are more than twenty million Spaniards who were born after 6 December 1978 and who have lived since their birth in democracy. I fear that for some of them the Constitution is something that their parents or grandparents voted for and that vaguely remember their school years, without realizing that the Constitution, their spirit and the laws emanating from it condition their entire life. This is the dissemination effort we ask in this proposal not of law: that they convince them, if I may say so, that the Constitution is not something analog and of the last century but rabidly current, of the twenty-first century and digital, because they must know that the current model of coexistence is not free. They must know to appreciate what is the result of the effort, crowned by success, in the search for a common project in which we have fitted and fit all Spaniards and that it was not easy to achieve. We must explain to them that we have managed to develop a framework of coexistence that has established a solid system of protection of rights and freedoms, promoting progress towards full equality of opportunity, establishing the starting point for social and economic development and the basis for Spain to play its part in the international arena. But we must also tell them that if they ask - these young people to whom we refer - teachers, politicians of different sensibilities, they will all put defects in the Constitution: different articles, certain essays, presences or absences in the text. But this is not a defect of the Constitution, it is a consequence of how it was elaborated, of the search for agreements between antagonistic positions to reach consensus, because Spain over the last two centuries has had magnificent constitutions -1812, 1876, 1931-, advanced in its time and studied in universities all over the world, but had a defect, were constitutions of the majority prevailing at that time, which poured into them all its ideas, but were rejected by a minority that was not reflected. That is why they faced the passage of time and the change of circumstances badly. The 1978 Constitution was that of consensus, from very different positions it came to a text that supported more than 80% of the Spanish people and where the vast majority of the political positions were represented, but none in their entirety. This was the right thing to do with the Constitution. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the self-amendment made by the People's Group itself to this non-legislative proposal. It consists in adding a paragraph by which the Congress of Deputies invites all the agencies and institutions addressed by this non-legislative proposal to join the commemorative acts that are already being promoted by the General Courts, as agreed by the Joint Bureaus of Congress and the Senate on 20 September. I would like to congratulate both the Bureaus - Congress and the Senate - for the sensitivity they have shown to a celebration as important as the 40th anniversary of the Spanish Constitution of 1978. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Candela Serna spoke in the first place on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. First, a warm embrace to the students of Miguel Hernández University in Orihuela for being present here today, in a plenary session. I would like to welcome the People's Party to constitutionalism because I am pleased to see that its party, which took part in the vote in Congress and supported the abstention of our Magna Charter, now defends it vigorously. But, ladies and gentlemen, defending the Constitution means more than bringing a small piece of paper to this House to carry out acts and celebrations, and it means more than using the Constitution to point out good and bad Spaniards. Defending the Constitution means defending and protecting each and every one of the rights it contains and its Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, has not done so. And today, in the midst of one of the most important political crises in recent decades, they bring us to debate a toast to the sun. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand how you can talk about the efforts to seek points of confluence and the ability to put the sense of state before the legitimate aspirations of political parties as a constitutional reform begins, leaving aside a quarter of the House. And I don't understand it because it's an absolute contradiction to the spirit of transition. And if you were more honest you would not bring us this GNP to take out some news videos; you would bring a proposal to solve the territorial problem, to update our Constitution and ensure the well-being of citizens and to make all citizens feel part of a new country project. But they haven't. In return, they are sneaking out with the Socialist Party denying participation to others. [[Addressing the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] It would also be interesting, for an exercise in transparency, for you to say what you are doing with the People's Party. I'm done, President. Yesterday Anti-corruption called for the condemnation of the People's Party for profiting from Gürtel and whoever steals from his country, who steals from his people, who steals from his homeland does not comply with the Constitution, is simply a traitor. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u47	Mr Xuclà i Costa also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let's make it clear and quick: nothing to celebrate. I'm personally sorry for the good deal I have with you, Mr. Posada, nothing to celebrate. Let's vote no. He will vote against a party that in 1978 was in the constitutional consensus and in the drafting paper of the Constitution. We are also slightly surprised that a People's Party, heir to the People's Alliance, half of whose deputies voted against that Constitution and had a abstaining role in the referendum, now lifts the flag of defence of a Constitution that has to be to solve problems and not to petrify the fixed photo forty years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of half a million Catalans who have asked us to represent them and who are very aware that the constitutional consensus broke in Catalonia in July 2010, when the Constitutional Court issued a ruling from the Statute, which represents the only time in forty years that a law agreed between the Courts and the Parliament and subsequently submitted to a referendum on citizenship has a subsequent cut in the Constitutional Court. In Catalonia, surely, for the composition of the system of political parties and representatives in Parliament and also for the elected in the elections of 26 June last year - they must take note of this, because this is not a fixed and petrified photo of forty years ago -, there is no support for the Constitution that was shown in 1978; I would even tell you that there is no support even majority. But, whether there is one or not, there is a very simple way to check it, ladies and gentlemen, which is by allowing people, that men and women, to vote freely and for everything in a secret ballot box. This is what happens in democracy. Trying to put doors to the countryside and try to avoid the expression of citizens is impossible. It has occurred on October 1st and will occur in any future election. Ladies and gentlemen, since 1812 no Spanish constitution has been reformed, except the current one in two small elements, which demonstrates the inability of Spanish policy to face the reforms of the constitutional frameworks at the time. Last message: with political prisoners and about to activate article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, for us there is no possible fit for the political solution of Catalonia through this constitutional reform that some of you are talking about. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u50	Thank you very much, President. We are being proposed a non-law proposal to commemorate a referendum that passed the Constitution in 1978 forty years ago, and certainly the Basque Parliamentary Group sees no reason for this for several reasons. Firstly, it would be redundant with what has been happening since 1983, when the annual feast of 6 December was established to commemorate the holding of the referendum adopted by the 1978 Constitution and, moreover, for the same reasons as now, forty years later, the proposal wishes to exalt. On the other hand, the Basque Nationalist Party sees no reason for the support requested in line with the abstention position it held in that referendum of 1978. On those dates we consider that the Constitution did not constitute a model of State on the basis of a satisfactory reflection of the recognition of the historical rights of the Basque people, without this being an obstacle to recognizing their positive aspects and to fight, with institutionality and political realism, for a Basque status as wide as possible that would allow the Constitution, extracting from it all the powers of self-government, considering that the same - as was said textually - were an advance of what we considered our rights, the historical rights of the Basque people. I must also remember that in that referendum the abstention in the Basque Country reached 55% of the census; the vote against, 11% of the census, and the vote in favour, 31% of the census. Thirdly, the Basque Nationalist Party does not see any reason to support the initiative of the People's Party for losing the centralizing tendency in interpreting the territorial question, the conception of the state, to the detriment of the Basque self-government, denying it in some cases and reinterpreting it downwards in others. This involutionary path certainly does not stimulate us to any celebration. Fourthly, at this very moment, when we are plunged into the greatest constitutional crisis since its adoption, we wonder whether it makes sense to celebrate the consensus of the past and intend to transmit it to future generations when the present generation does not practice it. To hold a referendum forty years ago while one is being prevented in the present? What do you intend to connote this proposal? To continue the situation that has led us to the dead end in which we find ourselves? Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a situation of great responsibility and we are not for overworked celebrations, but for working and dialogue in good faith and constructively on the territorial conflict we live in, guided by the principles of realism and stability and for the convergence and coexistence of different identities on the basis of mutual recognition and respect. Ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the territorial model of the State must be approached constructively, starting from the recognition and assumption of its own multi-national reality, and the right of citizens to be consulted on their future in a legal and agreed manner must be institutionalized as the last ratio, adapting the legality so that the democratic principle can be expressed in its full dimension and not purporting to dilute the sub-state national realities into a model of State that has not resulted, nor has the common difference worked, because it has not worked, nor does any project advocate a renewal of what is defined as dehomogenized symmetry; nor will the autonomous state of emergency that exists over Catalonia function as a solution. I'm finishing up, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we must all incorporate into our political thinking the recognition of diversity and political pluralism, which allows for the peaceful coexistence of different interests, convictions and lifestyles. We must also incorporate its most important values: mutual respect, tolerance and mutual recognition of conflicting positions, a conflict that must be addressed from the dialogue that leads to negotiations in good faith, with mutual understanding and commitment to minimum consensus and shared values. We must flee from ideals of exclusivity and imposition by force and we must promote inclusive coexistence based on a network of Community values and procedures. The future Constitution to be celebrated should be a liquid in which the concepts and identities that are cast maintain their individuality and coexist. The only solid content of a pluralist constitution must be the plurality of values, principles and, of course, of national political sentiments, moving away from inflexible conceptions without nuances such as the one we heard last week from President Rajoy, when he referred to Spain, with a registered stamp, as an unstoppable common good. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u51	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Villegas Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u52	President, ladies and gentlemen. In 1978, a group of brave men and women - because they must be brave to reach agreements with which they think differently - laid the foundations for what has been forty years of coexistence and freedom in our country. It was men and women who were able to interpret and lead the desires of Spanish society, a society that cried out for social welfare, for freedom, for democracy and for Europeanism. These men and women were able to translate those desires into a legal text in our Constitution. There are, therefore, things to celebrate and we are going to support this GNP. They were able to shape those desires and they did so by imbuing that legal text, that Constitution, with values and principles that, by reviewing them, we see that today they are, if possible, equal or more in force than then. These are values such as freedom, equality, justice and political pluralism and principles such as the principle of legality - which is now being questioned on my land in Catalonia - the principle of the division of powers - which is being questioned throughout Spain - the principle of national sovereignty - what about the principle of national sovereignty? - the principle of diversity within the Union and social rights. Therefore, I insist, there are reasons to celebrate what these brave men and women did forty years ago, but we cannot remain alone in the celebration; there are reasons to celebrate, but there are also reasons to reflect. After thirty years of bipartisanism supported by nationalist parties in different stages, this coexistence model, which has lasted forty years, is in crisis and gives signs of exhaustion. In addition to the economic crisis, there is a clear crisis of legitimacy, of the legitimacy of the political class and of the legitimacy of our institutions, and that crisis of legitimacy is reflected in a disaffection of citizens towards the political class - we can see it in any survey, whether of the CIS or any other that is published -, a disaffection that surely has its basis on two fundamental factors of how the old parties have managed power over the past forty years: on the one hand, corruption, which has been a much more widespread phenomenon than we would like and, on the other, the abuses of power of the old parties, which have stifled civil society, which have tried to control the judiciary, which have been embedded in the financial power and which have tried to control the media and communication. Therefore, there are reasons for celebration, but also for reflection and for reforms. In the face of this crisis there is neither immobilism nor conformism nor the breakup of those who want to demolish our system of coexistence. [[Applauds]] Faced with this situation, it is necessary to resume the courageous attitude of those men and women of 78 and to rescue the values and principles that inspired them and that inspire our Constitution. We need to update, modernize and reform our coexistence model so that those same values and principles can shine again. I will remember them because they are certainly, I insist, more current than ever. These are values such as freedom, equality, justice and pluralism; principles such as legality, division of powers, national sovereignty, diversity within the Union and social rights. I insist, let us resume those principles, let us resume the courage of the men of 78; let us reform our model of coexistence and let those principles and values shine again and be the inspirations of a new common Spanish project that will serve the Spanish citizens for another forty years of coexistence in peace and freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u53	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Monereo Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u54	Madam President, for years the People's Party has been making a speech that I would call disciplinary. Disciplinary discourse is a form of discourse that almost always is conferred on the one who has the power and aims to give himself the power of definition. Disciplinary discourse is a speech of definition, the ability that someone gives himself, almost always endowed with power, to say: this is good, this is bad, this is positive, this is negative, this is my Constitution, you are out of the Constitution or you are your enemy. As you will see, it is a speech that has much to do with criminal law, with the criminal law of the enemy. This has some importance, because to methify, idealize the Constitution is a huge mistake, first of all, because it was not true and, secondly, because it was very hard and even terrible. We already know him today. During the process of the Constitution and the Transition, more than six hundred people died. There was terrorism, state terrorism, acute social conflicts; the transition was never secured. There were risks and people lived them very hard. So, when you explain that idealized transition, young people disconnect. How come they're not gonna disconnect? Jefferson said that a constitution should last for a generation, because the dead cannot be permanently directing the living, but so must politics. Every political stage must be won by the young people of their generation, and with this fairy tale no one will believe it, because they also compare their lives with the values of the Constitution and there is a huge asymmetry. Ladies and gentlemen, of course there was a pact in the Constitution between a reformist class of Francoism and democratic opposition. What was the content of that covenant? Do not touch on the substantial aspects of the Francoist State apparatus in exchange for incorporating social constitutionalism. That was the content of the pact, always, always, guarded, guarded by the competent military authority, always guarded by the military authority. But not only that, article 2 came directly from there, as José Pedro Pérez-Llorca said; that's why it is so poorly written, because it came from there, from those who called themselves in the Transition the powers they commanded. Of course they did! Talking about limited constituent power is like an oxymoron, but the constituent power was limited. What happened? We know what happened. We incorporated substantial elements of social constitutionalism, of the best, but unfortunately the winds were changing in Europe and the neoliberal revolution appeared. Miguel Herrero said, with the bad grape that characterizes him, speaking of that stage, that we were facing the Vichy syndrome, of the Vichy of Pétain, in a very precise sense, of how Pétain, that is, the French right, was able to liquidate left and republicanism on the basis of a third thing: the Wehrmacht, the German Army. Now it has not been necessary that, now it has only been necessary to bring in financial capital, which is the one that tells us the limits that we cannot exceed or that we cannot excel; financial capital, and I am not talking about theory. On August 5, 2011, a prominent socialist named Fernández Ordóñez, and the president of the Central Bank told Mr Zapatero - on the 4th had been his birthday - that either he accepted the bank's diktat or Spain was going to ruin; Spain was going to ruin. Who is the sovereign of the Constitution, the Spanish people or the European Central Bank? [[Applauds]] For this reason, when it comes to sovereignty, it is not to claim social rights and a policy of its own that will end unemployment and inequality, but to take it for a walk in front of historical nationalities.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u55	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u56	I'm done, Madam President, for a second. Where are we now? We are a step beyond national constitutionalism. Now we're in a very hard step. We are moving towards militant democracy and we already have the signs of the enemy's criminal law. Watch out! When you deal with PP, you should know who you're dealing with. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u57	For the Socialist Group, Mr Villar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if all the anniversaries have some crossroads, because we usually take stock and get lessons for the present and for the future, those of 6 December this year and next year have a very special significance, and the commemoration cannot consist only of moments for self-congratulation. Four decades of constitutional rule constitute an exceptional milestone in our history, in which none of the truly democratic constitutional texts had real and continued validity nor was it normative in its entirety, but were fundamentally programmatic, with the nuanced exception of the 1931 Republican Constitution. We are therefore facing a truly important development as 40 years of peaceful, regular and generally prosperous democratic life up to the present crisis means that our Constitution has effectively and effectively governed the life of the country, regardless of the inevitable existence of relative breaches, unresolved problems or, more recently, very strong and very difficult political tensions to address. Despite the great problems with constitutional transcendence that we face, we still enjoy one of the most advanced constitutions in the world. This must be underlined in view of the propaganda of those who despise our fundamental norm and intend to present Spain as an authoritarian and repressive State. It is a consensual Constitution, which came to resume a unique democratic experience - the republican interrupted in 1936 - as well as to break the centuries-old asynchrony of our political, social and economic development with Europe. The Constitution adapted very well to the imperatives of the State and of the second half of the twentieth century on this great social and democratic pact that has been mentioned earlier, but now, as the twenty-first century enters, it needs to adapt to the new challenges, to the new requirements of economic, technological, social, political and cultural transformations in a globalized world. Ladies and gentlemen, when the Constitution was adopted, a model text was incorporated into our constitutional history for its time, not only because of its content but also because of the way in which the constituent process was generally developed, taking into account the context in which it was lived, and has been recognized by most scholars. The Constitution was for the first time in our history the Constitution of all, to which all significant social and political sectors had contributed. It is a Constitution that has sought and achieved to a large extent - to be said - to resolve for at least a long period of time the great and serious conflicts that have historically divided Spanish society. Despite these achievements, the Socialists understand that, due to the inexorable passage of time and the economic, social, political, institutional and territorial crisis that we are experiencing, it needs to be reformed and needs to be reformed in a spirit of compromise on five main axes: strengthening social rights and the welfare state, revitalizing the rule of law, improving the quality of political representation and democratic institutions, updating the territorial organization, in order to resolve our conflicts with mechanisms of political integration that are also inspired by the instruments of collaboration established in the federal countries of our environment, and strengthening the connection with the European Union. For all this, the Socialists have formulated a wide range of measures in our programme documents, as is well known. With this provision for dialogue, the meeting, the compromise, we have also promoted the creation of the non-permanent Commission for the assessment and modernisation of the autonomous state, a specific instrument that must be put in place as soon as possible to channel the dialogue and the will of all political forces to address this fundamental issue. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of the initiative, although it seems insufficient to us, because it should explicitly assume that the Spanish reality calls for the reform of the Constitution to update it, to bring it into line with all the needs of our day by relegating it and reinvigorating it. Normally - as is well known - in order not to do anything, the Ignatian saying is invoked of 'in times of zozobra or tribulation, not to move', but we prefer something else, we prefer to go to Acemoglu and Robinson, those two great economists who in their work Why the nations fail tell us that the great changes of a country occur precisely in critical situations, as clearly taught by the history and experience of other countries. Thank you very much, Madam President; thank you very much for your attention, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u59	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u60	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, to ensure real and effective equal pay for men and women and to develop the wage transparency commitment set out in the recommendation of the European Commission of 7 March 2014. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u61	Good afternoon, Madam President. We are in compliance with the mandate of Rule 184 and, indeed, we are in the midst of the debate that brings us here today, which is the motion raised after the interpellation. If I may, I will not tire you of the data we have presented in the previous inquiry, which indicates that the situation in our country is very poor in terms of the wage gap, nor is what the international agencies are pointing out regarding the impact that the economic crisis is going to have on women and, in particular, on their equal pay. [[The Lord]] Very quickly. Of course, we have a constitutional mandate - today we are talking about the constitutional text, its revisions and so on - which is precept number 9.2, which clearly tells us that the legislator and, in particular, the public authorities have to promote the conditions of effective equality. Effective equality is not being achieved in our country today, and I will not repeat the data. The more professionally we scale, the closer we get to the glass roofs, the more unequal are the wages for women. This is more than contrasted and is a profoundly unequal fact for all of us. What are the characteristics of the Spanish retributive system? First of all, we are stunned by an element that is apparently neutral, but which has to do with opacity in pay systems. We said the other day - today we bring exactly the same point in this motion - that the European recommendation of 2014 says that it is a mandate to define work of equal value. This is vital, because in this bias the masculine, patriarchal imaginary appears and operates in the classifications, in the business groups and, of course and prominently, in the Public Administration. We could talk about the university sphere - there are palm examples - and we could also talk, for example, about the conditions in which many high-scale and low-scale journalists, editors who are around us every day: in the face of identical functions, their salaries are deeply unequal. The time has come for us in our country to change the rules and fulfil the 2014 mandate and recommendation. There have already been enough countries that have incorporated that recommendation into their legislation. The recommendation stated that we should make these changes before December 2015 and, as always, on these issues of fundamental rights, women's advancement and equal pay, the People's Party Government is neither seen nor expected. We are in 2017 and they have done nothing on this issue, despite - I insist - that investiture speech by Mr Rajoy in which he promised us twelve legislative reforms, including three in this area. Therefore, the key is retributive opacity. The key is that anyone who takes the payroll of public personnel or a salaried or salaried employee in our country will see that there is a huge difficulty in knowing what the concepts for which we are being remunerated are. Above all, there is a huge inequality - it is a lateral maneuver - in the complements, in the overtime. There are a lot of factors that seem neutral and that are greatly harming women. For example, there is something very handy, but it is real: the effort in the professional categories and in the functional groups is highly unequally valued in women; that is, cleaning women are penalized, for example, when the physical effort involved is catalogued and, however, in the case of men the physical effort is added to the personal complement that is required to do this, and all this under an appearance of neutrality. Another example is those complements that operate in the world of mechanics. For example, in a mechanical workshop this complement operates unevenly in other professional categories. What do we want with this initiative? We make them a proposal of eleven points which we submit to their approval and which says nothing, nothing absolutely revolutionary. It's all written down, all we do is move the existing in international matters, basically the 2014 recommendation, so that our State will once and for all legislate on this issue. What do we ask? Firstly, as we have said, regulatory changes in the area of the Staff Regulations and subsidiary rules and, of course, the Civil Service. It is unheard of - I insist - that article 28 of our Statute still today does not incorporate that the concept of equal value must be incorporated into our legislation. Secondly, we call for the right of information disaggregated by gender at the collective level, i.e. through the representatives of workers, but also at the individual level, and here there is no problem. Sometimes the People's Party appeals because it claims that economic privacy is violated, according to article 18.2 of the Spanish Constitution, and already the Constitutional Court has told us that this is false, because there is no reason for unconstitutionality and, moreover, neither is data protection violated. Let us therefore, once and for all, allow what every worker receives to be made public so that women can see on that average if, in fact, there are unequal wages. I invite you to read the BOE every day and observe the collective agreements that are published. Man, it seems to us elementary that in collective agreements, just in assessing jobs in professional categories, there is control over this factor, above all, of indirect discrimination. We also call for the extension of article 11 and others of the Civil Prosecution Act, so that there are new legitimacys and procedural capacities to operate; not only have to be trade unions; trade unions, of course, but why not women's associations. Why will they not be able to act by filing lawsuits when they understand that there is a violation of indirect discrimination in workers' groups? In Article 177, for example, the protection of the fundamental rights of workers, legitimacy must also be changed in this respect. As far as representational bodies are concerned, of course it is indicated by the Equality Act of its day. The problem is that trade unions also have to bring equality to their representative bodies, so that it is women who negotiate and not men who do politics for us. Of course, everything has to do with the mechanisms of detention and punishment. Of course there are rules that prevent indirect discrimination today, but the truth and truth is that since nothing happens, what costs is free - Juan people pays - and no matter what, we women continue to be deeply poorly paid and there we continue, therefore, we must also sanction this matter.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u62	Your Honor, you have to go finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u63	I'm done. All that has to do with gender statistics, national accounts and so on, computing, domestic work has to appear in the public eye to see the work that our women are doing every day in our country. It is essential once and for all that it be incorporated. [[Applauds]] I'm done. Obviously there are all the reforms that have to do with the modification of days that, today, are neutral, but profoundly unequal. If we don't, if we don't, women will remain second-rate human beings, almost like slaves. The wage gap today is - I insist - 23%, so we ask you to vote in favour of this motion. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Raya Rodríguez is speaking first of all by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the majority of this House is participating and in favour of the need to amend the current constitutional text in order to bring it into line with the demands of the times, today, with the debate on the motion before us, we are presented with a magnificent opportunity to demonstrate to the citizens of this country that the effort to adapt and update our democratic rules responds to a sincere will, not to a forced pose due to the complexity of the problems that deeply engulf our nation in recent weeks. In other words, the future amendments to the constitutional text given to us by the Spaniards in 1978 must be based on the real and tangible implementation of certain principles contained in that constitutional framework and which, unfortunately, continue to have the status of mere wet paper. Among these principles, among these historically inconclusive rights of citizenship, is the existence of the wage gap, which constitutes a flagrant and flagrant violation of article 14 of our constitutional text. Today, Minister, even if you are not present in this debate, you and your colleagues are given a new opportunity to move forward on the path of real progress, the prevalence of equal opportunities and the eviction of shameful discrimination on grounds of sex. Today we ask you, once again from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to leave once and for all your ambiguous speech, your hollow oratory in this matter, which is one of the most anachronistic and shameful issues for a nation that claims to be modern and consistent with the times ahead. It smiles to imagine what future generations will think about a country in which men receive greater economic remuneration than a woman, both performing the same tasks and responsibilities, and that this is also not due to substantial differences in training, nor to differences in qualification and preparation, but to prejudices and a misestimation of future costs. Spain, unfortunately, is the third country in the European Union where the risk of poverty has increased most during the crisis. We have denounced, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group on many occasions, the existence of poor workers, and that most of these poor workers are poor workers. The face of inequality has a woman's face. [[Applauds]] Because a public administration incapable of ending up so aberrant aggravation is the irrefutable proof of an inexcusable government inaction. Madam Minister, even if you are not here today, we ask you to come and talk once again about the various gaps that exist and also not to succumb to an inveterate habit of dizzying the loser with the exclusive will to slip away in a blatant flight ahead of the negligent failure of your duties. Get to work, get rid of your victorious and self-complacent picture and fulfill your duty and duty to fight resolutely and effectively against one of the most shameful grievances in the comprehensive catalogue of existing ones, that of the wage gap based on the gender gap. And don't tell us that the People's Party government has developed and approved a strategic plan to end the wage gap, because you know that it's not true, as do the social actors who worked for more than a year in drawing up this document, a document that has never seen the light. Ladies and gentlemen, the future, including the forthcoming amendments to the constitutional text, once again has a magnificent launch platform to strengthen the good intentions expressed. The Socialist Party will support this motion - it cannot be otherwise - even if we have tabled an amendment, because it is undoubtedly a motion with a marked socialist wedge and which has also systematically stumbled over the break of the inaction of the governments of the People's Party. Let us close the wage gap by building the future from this present moment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u66	Thank you very much, Mrs. Raya. Mrs Villalobos Talero has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u67	Thank you very much, President. I understood that we were coming to talk - as the spokesman and rapporteur of the Podemos Group has rightly said - about the recommendations that the European Commission and the European Parliament have made on the fight against the wage gap between men and women, but after listening to the spokesman of the PSOE gives the impression that the only country with a wage gap is Spain, and of course since it governs the PP. When the PSOE ruled we were all very equal, so absolutely equal that there were a lot of women standing, but that is the equality that the Socialist Party likes, not the one that we like. [[Applauds]] These recommendations are addressed to all the members of the Union - all of them - which means that, unfortunately, there is still a wage gap in the whole of the European Union, which is not a subject of today - not since the ruling of the Socialist Party either; it is an endemic issue in Spanish employment and the Spanish economy, and it is something we have to fight against. Women come together to fight ill-treatment. A law has been made - an agreement has recently been reached here - and they continue to kill and pressure women, then we have to go a lot further than what legislation is, what the agreements we take in this House mean, because society as a whole and especially the social partners must be involved. That is why, in my earlier debate with Yolanda, with the spokesman for the Podemos Group, what I am saying is that it is essential for me to raise the issue of social partners, trade unions and employers about the need to seek that balance, because the Workers' Statute in articles 18 and 28 clearly states that agreements cannot be negotiated with discrimination, either directly or indirectly, and they continue to do so. And you, who are a deputy from the trade union world - better said your father, as you have told me - know perfectly well that the reality is that we need trade unions to be involved in wage equality in collective bargaining, because the traps to which the spokesman of the Podemos Group referred continue to exist in collective agreements and not only in the glass roof, but also in the lower parts and in the media. In all jobs, a woman with equal work is charging not at 24 % less, but at 18 or 22 % less, depending on the sector in which she is - that is the wage gap - looking for subterfuges, and to avoid them we necessarily need social dialogue and collective bargaining. As long as we make laws here - a proposal from the Socialist Group has recently been adopted to draft a law against the wage gap, and we will do so among all - the problem will not be over, Madam Socialist Group Member; the problem is much deeper and that is why we need the involvement of society as a whole. This is the approach taken by the Group of the European People's Party, which is why our amendment supports most of the proposals made by the rapporteur from the Group of the European People's Party, because we believe that they are the true reflection of the recommendation, but logically the recommendations have to be adapted to the different labour and non-labour legislations. This country has launched projects and proposals not in the field of work, but in the field of equality - in the Ministry of Health - to combat wage gaps. In fact, in the 2015 budgets more than EUR 1 million was allocated in research programmes, many of them for women's associations that want to mentalise society's need to combat inequality; and in the 2016 budgets there were EUR 350 000 for feminist organizations that fight inequality and the wage gap. It is necessary to have them, it is necessary to make progress in this direction, but we cannot do anything if we cannot be together. I am very grateful to the rapporteur of the Group We can have been able to reach a consensus on this matter in order to present a proposal covering all of us. We need to be all women together, but from time to time men must step forward. Thank you very much. [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs. Villalobos. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as it could not be otherwise and in response to Mrs Villalobos' appeal, as she called on men to also participate in this issue, here we come mainly from the Basque Group - because when it is not me, it is Mr Agirretxea - to deal with these kinds of issues because it is always up to us, and we do so not only with great pleasure but with great responsibility. While preparing this intervention, I have stumbled upon several quotes that came to say more or less that the laws, the first normative actions have never alone been a factor in solving a real problem as intertwined as that of wage inequality between men and women. They have not been so in the area of inequality in general and in the area of remuneration either. The issue is not vague because the serious injustice of the wage gap is not exclusively due, as has also been mentioned, to situations of inequality resulting from non-existent, ineffective or even misinterpreted rules, but also. [[The ladies and gentlemen of the PDECAT Group enter the Chamber wearing a red carnation. Mrs Nogueras i Camero places one in the empty seat of the President of the Government, Rajoy Brey. Other Members deposit them in their seats]] The situation of inequality is due to many other factors, to many other reasons which are all silent, but which have essentially to do with the social consciousness which, although it has sounded funny at the beginning of my intervention, is not a mere commitment of the women and women of this Congress, but of the whole society and of men and of us, women as well. We wanted to add one more thing. The proposals that have been made since the motion have seemed necessary, acceptable, some correctable, another improveable, but fundamentally, especially knowing that they have been the subject of an agreement between different and plurals, they will not only count on our support, but also on our esteem. I say this because some proposals, although they seem strange to us, may have been necessary; not only those relating to the normative sphere, but also to the participation of the social partners, mainly the trade unions, through collective bargaining, for which a gap still exists today, and worth the redundancy, in the sense that they have not been able to interfere in this situation of wage gap or inequality, which is the result of their inefficient action in other cases. As a contribution we simply wanted to make a small addition, and it is the value that the scope of conciliation has for us on this issue. The area of gender pay inequality should be part of the reconciliation culture, which must also be internalized within the enterprise, also socially, but as a factor generating effective equality of obligations between men and women that must lead to this situation of equal pay and obligations in the family and in the workplace. Let us not forget the consequences that this should have in a situation like that which has been exposed to us at other times, which is a situation not only of lack of birth, but of a projection of a social state that will need agents for its effective maintenance. We assert that value of conciliation which we believe should be implemented in relation to these specific policies on unequal pay, and we advocate that it be included in the actions of the public authorities at the time. By the way, and lastly, reference has been made to the legal titles that the Constitution contains on this issue. They're different. Article 14 refers to a situation of equality not only at the formal but also at the material level, whose non-existence can be challenged in the relevant jurisdiction and as a violation of fundamental value, but the other one that is ours to promote is 9.3, the one that preaches that the public authorities are the ones to guarantee such effective equality, in this case in gender equality policies. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, as I have announced, we are going to support this motion, and we are going to do it decisively and convincingly more than anything else, and we are doing it not in our role as Basque Group, but in my role, in the role of Joseba, Mikel and Aitor, as women as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u70	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have brought here today a motion to combat the wage gap, which is indeed an outstanding issue on the labour market, not only in Spain but also in Europe. The wage gap is a priority issue for me because it is a question of justice, equity, equality and freedom. I would therefore advance you that we will vote yes, but you will allow me to do a little pedagogy, because there are two readings on the issue of the wage gap, one easy and one difficult. I'll start with the easy one. The easy reading of the pay gap is the one we often have when we're going to have a few beers with some friend and we have some angry partner trying to convince us that the pay gap is an urban legend, like that of New York's albino crocodiles. The wage gap does not exist, and it does not exist because in the same job a man and a woman earn the same. I'd miss more! It is that if a man and a woman in the same job do not win the same thing, what must be done immediately is to leave and denounce it, because labour legislation is being violated, so this easy and simplistic reading does not serve me. The second reading is much more subtle and much more complex - it is what we have to address - is a realistic reading. The reality, without entering dialectic battles of numbers, as it happened last week, is that today the women of this country together we are winning the same thing that the men won a decade ago, and that is a truth. The average income, in general, of Spanish men is about 14% above the average of our income. As the minister said - there I will give you the reason - it is true that the wage gap has narrowed; of course it has!, but because the men's salaries have fallen, not because the women's salaries have risen, therefore, it is true that it has narrowed, but we do not want to be equal that way. Why do women earn less than men? I'm going to tell you, there are three fundamental reasons. First of all, the number of hours worked. We have a precarious job and we are the great users of part-time work, which is the worst paid. So we work less hours and earn less money. Secondly, vertical segregation. The glass ceiling in this country exists, we can tell any of us, and therefore we have much more difficulty in accessing relevant jobs than our colleagues do. And, thirdly, because of horizontal segregation, because we usually work in sectors where when we arrive poverty is feminized and in the end they end up being worse paid. For example, in the communication sector, where I work. Where Citizens are fighting, it is especially in combating these indirect discriminations, and I will tell you how, with two measures. First of all, in Citizens it seems essential to increase co-responsibility. What does this mean? This means that men need to invest more time in the private sphere so that we can be working longer in the public sphere. And we have fought this with deeds, not words. Why? Because since we are here, paternity leave has been increased in a week and, if the PP pulls its budgets out of the drawer and the PSOE has to abstain and let them go forward, this year will increase paternity leave in a second week and, therefore, we will be able to better integrate into the labour market. [[Applauds]] There is another measure that can also help to eliminate the wage gap and ensure that there is co-responsibility, and I will also demonstrate it with facts. If the PP is willing to take the budgets out of the drawer and the PSOE is willing to abstain, this year we have negotiated an additional EUR 1000 per year for families with children between zero and three years of age, so we can also work harder in the labour market. So, gentlemen of the PP and the PSOE, cheer me up because it's going to be good for everyone. But not only must we fight by promoting co-responsibility, we must also continue to fight to eliminate inequalities in the public sphere, to eliminate precariousness in a feminized market. In this sense, citizens have also been very clear: if the PP pulls their budgets out of the box and the PSOE has the right to abstain, we will have a wage supplement for young people that will help mostly women and that will contribute to the descarcation of the labour market. Let us see whether we welcome the action that has been taken in this House - let us congratulate you - that we, in the agreement we signed with the People's Party and the Socialist Party, in point 73, brought the need for transparency measures: with published statistics, with objective selection processes, and not with beer agreements; beer agreements cannot be mechanisms for promoting employment. We therefore support these measures and believe that they are necessary. I would like to take this opportunity to make an appeal to all the Members of this House, because we are seeing the straw in the eye of others and we do not see the beam in ours. I want to tell you that there is also a wage gap in this House; it is a House in which, with more than two hundred and fifty employees, we do not have an equality plan and it has had to be my partner, Patricia Reyes, who has proposed to do so. I encourage all of you to support him. [[Applauds]] I want to end up saying...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u72	Mrs. Martin, you have to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u73	I think it is right that, as a woman, I should be paid the same as my male colleagues, but not only that, I hope that, as a woman and as a worker, I will be given the same respect and the same opportunities as my male colleagues, as well as the rest of my female colleagues in this House and the rest of the women. I hope - I am sure of it - that all the male Members of this House will support this motion because it is not a question of women, it is a question of justice and equality. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u74	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martin. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mrs Díaz Pérez whether her group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u75	Yes, Mr President, we have made a compromise which is in the hands of the Bureau's lawyer and which is signed by the groups.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u76	All right. Thank you very much. We shall take this into account for the vote. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON IDEOLOGIC ADOCTRIMINATION IN EDUCATION CENTRES IN SPAIN. [[File number 173/000052]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u77	We continue with the motion, as a result of urgent questioning, of the Citizen Parliamentary Group on ideological indoctrination in educational institutions in Spain. For the author group of the initiative, Mr Cantó García del Moral has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u78	The philosopher and writer Felix de Azúa commented that... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u79	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u80	He commented that the eight-year-old son of friends who had been in Catalonia for a short time came home one day from school and asked worried: Dad, what are we, Catalans or fairies? This anecdote seems very illustrative to me because it clearly shows several of the edges that the problem has. First of all, it clearly shows us what the problem we are talking about now, ladies and gentlemen, is because we are talking about the intellectual abuse of minors, about the betrayal that means that some of those to whom we give our children, who must ensure that our children learn to think, are dedicated to telling them what to think. [[Rumors]] Secondly, supremacism, the belief that one group - they - is better than another - than us - Catalans or facades. Thirdly, that dangerous notion that there is a people, a folk, the people of Podemos, who also seem to like puemitas and nationalists, who have absolute unanimity, everyone thinks the same thing, something that we, of course, find terrifying; moreover, it erases and condemns the non-existence of everyone who does not think the same. These days we have often seen how these gentlemen - welcome, by the way, because the other day we said we were going to propose to take their salary if they didn't come, but I tell you since it's not worth coming to the end, you have to come all afternoon, because, if not, it doesn't count - erase and condemn the non-existence to all those who don't think as you think it should be, to those who aren't independentists. [[The lady]] That is what Mrs Forcadell said, by the way, when she said that a party like Citizens is not a Catalan party, it is a Spanish party in Catalonia. That's what I mean. A week ago, in the interpellation to the minister on this subject, I gave several examples of what seems to Citizens to be something very serious. For example, I taught this, I taught this too, but I could have taught a lot of other things because, speaking of how this extends to Balearics or the Valencian Community, I could have taught this too. [[Show different pictures]] In that interpellation we reminded the People's Party and the Socialist Party of their responsibility in all this, how they have allowed us to arrive at this situation, how they continue to refuse to use the tools they do possess to prevent the problem of indoctrination; in short, their complicated way of dealing with nationalism, how they have been negotiating from bipartisanism for so long with Pujol the corrupt and company, letting those who want nothing but to destroy Spain participate in the construction of Spain. [[Applauds]] Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that today we are going to be left alone with this proposal and this saddens us, because we think it is an urgent issue, which is a very serious issue, but of course it does not frighten us. Our party, Citizens, was born eleven years ago fighting against nationalism; we warned the rest of the parties that what is happening today in Catalonia was going to happen and no one listened to us. [[Rumors]] In this today we did not expect less blindness and less opportunism than some of you, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Party has shown us some amendments that they only want to decafeinate completely and leave our proposal to nothing, and the PSOE does not want or amend, it has told us that they are going to vote against. I ask you, gentlemen of the PP and gentlemen of the PSOE, to rectify, that we cannot allow our children to continue to be indoctrinated, that the PSOE, although the PSC of Iceta says that it is delighted with the Catalan educational model, must take letters on the matter at once, that it cannot be that the PSOE from the Maragall era to the time of Mr Ximo Puig in the Valencian Community continue to leave education in the hands of its nationalist partners, of the Republican Left or of the Valencian Republican Left, which is Compromís. [[Applauds]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, let the children be told that the national police or the civilian guards are the bad ones, let them be told to a son of a civilian guard: 'it will seem nice to you what your father did the other day', it has to do with a crowd besieged by Omnium, ANC or by the secessionist politicians besieged the other day by the State Security Forces. Let the children be put - as I have already taught - to cut off the crown of our king has to do with the fact that a few weeks ago their majestys were pitted in a demonstration, that they became the target of complaints, when in that demonstration anyone uneducated in hatred and moderately democrat would only have used that demonstration to express their revulsion towards the terrorists and their support for the victims. [[Applauds]] To show Spanish-speaking immigrants in Catalan children's textbooks thus leads to a superior and supremacist way of speaking, for example, on TV3, the only large company we are sure will not run away from the secessionist Catalonia. [[Show a picture]] [[Applauds]] So, ladies and gentlemen, in order to avoid continuing to confront some Catalans with others, to educate our children in freedom, we present this motion which calls, among other things, to develop the framework for the high educational inspection to act ex officio for the verification of basic curriculum contents and the guarantee of equal rights of all students, including linguistics, and to guarantee ideological neutrality; that is, so that this does not happen again, for example, okay? [[Shows a poster reading: 'Encourage teachers to demonstrate with their students for the arrest of the 'Jordis'']] To develop a regulatory framework for the requirement of disciplinary responsibilities for directors and teachers, so that they do not allow this again, for example to develop a framework for the prosecution to be able to prosecute hate crimes whose victims are minors in educational institutions, and thus end up with attitudes such as those I have already described. [[Shows a photograph in which you read: 'The school in català now and always', between two stellates]] Finally, to protect complainants from these acts with anonymity and adequate protection, especially if they are minors. That is, those children who were the only ones who protested against the teacher who publicly pointed out the son of a civilian guard in a Catalan school. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very curious to find out what is happening to all of you, to all the parties, in what is that figure of the defence of anonymity and of the denunciators of indoctrination when, however, in this House there is absolute unanimity to protect the denunciators of political corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, it is bad if we do not begin to worry about the intellectual corruption of our children, that is, our future, as well as the corruption that affects our administration or our economy. I'm done. He recalled the other day, President, that phrase of Escohotado that said that one country is rich not for its oil or diamonds but for its education, and especially - he pointed out - for his teaching to respect the other. Catalonia, increasingly a party, increasingly confronted by the secessionist government from the above, needs a change in order to stop becoming impoverished not only by the flight of its companies, but also by those who want to teach our children what to think. We need - and I finish - our children to develop a critical thinking, tools, so that when they see that Mas says this, that no bank is going to leave Catalonia secessionist, they know that what they have in front of them is a triler, it is a tahur, and that when they see a person like this, Albert Boadella, they know that it is not a facha, but an anti-Franchist fighter and a Catalan Democrat. [[Shows news reading: Artur Mas, in 2015: 'Banks will not leave Catalonia']] [[Shows a photograph of Albert Boadella in front of a sign that says: 'Here we grow three xiprers / some covards they sweep a night / we want to impose the thought unique to Catalonia']] Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Singing. In defence of the amendment made by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Bastidas Bono has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we thank you for the initiative and welcome you to our position as a permanent defender of the rights and freedoms of all Spaniards, because that is what the Government is doing, because, as the Minister for Education reminded you a few days ago and gave you examples of this, this Government is acting decisively and with all the tools it has in dealing with the most serious cases of indoctrination in those classrooms. And I welcomed them because - call me suspicious - it is at least curious that Citizens present here today a proposal when just a month ago they did not support in the Valencian Courts an initiative of the People's Party with similar objectives. [[Applauds]] Yes, yes, I would like to remind you, Mr Cantó, not a month ago, they did not support the creation of a specific team of inspectors to review the teaching materials of the schools, did not give their vote so that from the council it would act in accordance with the Constitution and the statute of autonomy and were profiled in order to avoid that from the Valencian institutions it would not continue to subsidize or collaborate with entities that support the independence process and the intelligence of the evil so-called Catalan countries. [[Applauds]] Allow me, therefore, with all due respect, a little humility, and I suggest a little coherence to help them temper at least in part their affluent and stubborn finger accuser. Ladies and gentlemen, really, a bit of a measure, do not teach everyone so much because from the government, in the autonomous communities where the People's Party governs, or is in the opposition, in the People's Party we have been working responsibly in the field of education for decades and without letting ourselves fall apart. I assure you that in the case of the Valencian Community it has not been easy because the invitation is no less. The attempts of cultural colonization by the most rancid and sectarian Catalanism has been and is persistent, and more in recent years when they are being encouraged and better financed from the institutions, thanks, among others, to the party of Mr Baldoví and Mrs Oltra, the same party that has promoted the nefarious decree of plurilingualism that the People's Party alone... [[Applauds]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u83	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u84	... has had to take to court while the citizens' deputies were in other things, were in their internal cots. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]] Ladies and gentlemen, one question should be made clear to us: our work in this Congress will be perceived as most useful by the Spaniards if far from apocalyptic tones and short-term approaches we choose to work together from rigour and serenity. The People's Party trusts the teachers of this country, trusts those who work on the high inspection and trusts the different educational communities, hence precisely the amendments that my group has tabled, which are aimed at correcting and improving and which go beyond the proposed text. In addition, I will tell you that we are in favour of introducing, together with all political groups, changes in the law to improve educational inspection. Let us therefore work on the diagnosis, ladies and gentlemen, and let us do so with rigour, commitment and responsibility so that not only these, but many more proposals, enrich the elaboration of the great pact of social and political state for education. In conclusion, they will always find us, without over-actions or sudden attacks of bravery, Mr Cantó, who seems to have on this subject the passion of the convert and in all his years as a deputy in his various parties, in UPyD and in Citizens, he is not reminded in this House of a single initiative in relation to this issue, so, as I said, without over-action, always working... [[Applauds]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u85	Wait a minute, Mrs. Bastidas. One moment, please. Please, I beg your silence. To whom we have to listen is exclusively to the speaker in this case, so I beg you, please, silence and attention. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u86	So, as I said to them, without over-action, within the framework of the educational pact, they will find us, with strength, to promote the necessary measures that protect those who need it most, and with firmness and unity, to defeat those who seek to rape the minds of our schoolchildren driven by fanaticism, sectarianism and so rightly they have called themselves national-populism. We shall abstain on this point because there is no will of agreement on the part of Citizens - you will know why - and my parliamentary group will soon be presenting a non-legislative proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bastidas. The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Salvador Armendáriz, in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u89	Wait a minute. I ask you now for silence and attention to listen to the speaker. I would not like to have to interrupt you because groups like the Mixed have little time and the interruption is very damaging to these groups with less time to intervene. I'd beg you, please, attention.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I want to join the hug sent to the families, friends and companions of Borja Aybar and Fernado Pérez Serrano and of all the deceased - Spanish and Portuguese - in the fires of these days. Mr Cantó, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think anyone was surprised last week to hear you describe nationalism, because it uses education as ammunition always at the service of national construction. The same is true in the Basque Country, Galicia and Navarre. For example, taking advantage of October 1st, a few days ago in a school in a Pamplona region a professor held a referendum with fifteen-year-olds, making them vote with ballot box and all if Euskal Herria had the right or not to decide. Nor is it a coincidence that in model D, which is the public model entirely in Basque, there is a very radical penetration of members of the abertzale world among teachers. That is not a casual thing, nor is it what the President of the Government of Navarre said in her investiture debate: education will be an obsession. Shaking! We have spent more than ten years with hundreds of initiatives in this house, demanding respect for our political-institutional reality around the Basque curriculum of education. It's not new. All separatisms, ladies and gentlemen, are clonic, they act the same. They are dogmatic and in the end institutionalize and systematize the lie because everything must be adapted to its purposes and objectives: history, reality, coexistence, no matter what. They are equally expansive, colonialist, exclusive, conflictive and ruinous movements. Just see the seven hundred companies on the run in Catalonia. And they also always use the language, education and control of the media, everywhere, although it is true that in Spain something specific happened and it is that all or almost all the political and social battles that win or are by violence - remember that of the tree and the nuts - or by incomparence, by abandonment, by inaction, by lack of common project or by lack of unity of action of the adversaries or dissidents. Ladies and gentlemen, if we finally open up a constitutional reform but in it we do not face the perverted and instrumental use of education separatism, it is almost better not to start that debate. I'm done, Mr. President. We will vote in favour, but, Mr Cantó, I want to give you some advice or make a suggestion or a plea. Until the last moment you must seek a consensus - I don't know if around the request of the PP or around a transaction - because it is only true that we arrive faster, but with more people we will get further. I believe that today is the message that we should give after this debate. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u92	Stupor is the first reaction that comes out of my mouth, but then two unpleasant words come out. I'm disgusted and disgusted. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] It is disgusting and disgusting to hear what has been said in this rostrum. Mr. Cantó has made reference to a writer and philosopher - he said - and I am going to make reference to another writer, Manuel Vicent, who in 1981 wrote an article entitled 'Don't put your dirty hands on Mozart'. Lords of Citizens, lords of the PP, do not put your lying hands on education; do not put your dirty hands on education; your demagogic hands, your cheating hands. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Because you need to have a very dirty mind to defame an entire educational system, various educational systems... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u93	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u94	That's 125,000 teachers. Will you tell me, Mr Cantó, that 125 000 teachers have no judgment, that they are all agents of evil, that they have no dignity? Are you gonna tell me that? Are you telling us that 125,000 teachers are not educating each day in values of peace, coexistence, civics, cultural diversity and plurality of ideas? Are you telling us that 125,000 teachers are educating a million and a half students every day in hatred, intransigence and intolerance? [[Mr.Cantó García del Moral: Some, I said]] I am a teacher, in my family there are many teachers, I have many teaching friends in Valencia and there are also many Valencians teaching there and never, ever, ever seen anything you say. You're insulting them with this motion. I have always seen in these teachers illusion and dedication. Being a teacher or a teacher is a beautiful profession and the last thing you need is for you to pour your pollution and pettyness on it. I'm done, because I promised you, Mr. President. I have started with unpleasant sensations and I end with feelings: grief, sadness, dismay, but above all concern at the extent to which you are able to reach the point of malice and abjection to gain votes. In politics, it's not all worth it.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u95	Your time is up, Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u96	I'm done. I am delighted, Mrs Bastidas, that you have alluded to Mr Cantó, your partner, for staying for himself also the flag of demagogy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u97	For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u98	How bold ignorance is, Mr. Singing, how bold ignorance is! [[Applauds]] With this text you prove to know nothing about education and very little about Catalonia. With this, I recommend you come a few days to Catalonia - I pay you the ticket if you want - and see the Catalan reality, because you have no idea... [[Rumors.-Sir Cantó García del Moral pronounces words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u99	Quiet, Mr. Cantó, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u100	...you have no idea what's going on in Catalonia. You have no idea that Catalonia is the fourth community in which students get better grades in Castellana Language, you have no idea what happens in Catalonia, you don't know that in Catalonia there was a national pact for education that hasn't been in this House because for us education is a priority. [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral shows a photograph that reads: 'L'escola en català ara i mámpre', between two stellates]] [[Applauds]] There we find independenceists and not independenceists, nationalists and non-nationalists, left and right, because education is a priority for us and not a political instrument like for you, which should be shamed. [[Protests.-Rumors-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u101	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u102	I do not know, Mr Cantó, whether Mr Boadella is a facha or not, I do not know; what I do know is that the initiative you are presenting today in 1939 was imposed in Spain and was named Special Military Court for the purification of civil servants. What you propose in Catalonia is to monitor the political ideas of your teachers, and that is intolerable, that must not be allowed. [[Applauds]] [[Rumors.- Mr. Cantó García del Moral makes negative signs]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u103	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u104	Because, listen to me one thing, you have voters, you have supporters, you have militants from your party who are teachers and teachers in Catalonia. Where's the problem? What bothers you is that there are people who don't think like you teaching boys and girls in Catalonia, but that's your problem. Mr. Baldoví said: take your dirty hands out of education. Well, he knows what? Stop scaring Catalan teachers, stop chasing people in Catalonia and let us make Catalans the political and educational system that we think is best... [[Señor Cantó García del Moral: And you tell me? You little shame!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u105	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Singing, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u106	I am telling you, because I represent the people of Catalonia in this House until they kick me out. [[Rumors.-Protests]] Yes or no? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] I tell you one thing - and I am finishing, Mr President - there have been in Spain textbooks where it was claimed that Machado had gone to France with his family, on vacation I imagine. There have been text books in Spain where it was said that Lorca had died near his village, as if he had stumbled. [[Rumors.-Sir Cantó García del Moral: Bad, bad]] I have not heard you condemn these textbooks in this House today. What happened? Isn't this nationalism? What is this? What is it? Isn't that nationalism, Mr. Singing? What happens is that it's his nationalism. [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral: Give me an example]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u107	Mr. Miquel, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u108	That's what doesn't bother you. I really want to know what the political reading of Spanish textbooks will do to tell Spanish boys and girls what is going on these days in Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u109	Mr. Miquel, I'll conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u110	...how they're going to count the reading of the political prisoners in Catalonia this week. [[Protests. - Rumors.]] But you know what, Mr. Singing? We're going to be in charge of telling you that you at the hands of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u111	Mr. Miquel, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u112	... put political prisoners back on the table in Catalonia in 2017. [[Protests. - Rumors.]] Have a good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u113	For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Rumors]] I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Cantó, you say you denounce hatred and sectarianism to streamers of Catalan school; I have seen that you have poured hatred and sectarianism to streamers here in your speech and also in that of the other day. [[Applauds]] The reality is very different, it is from a school of inclusion, of non-discrimination, widely accepted by Catalan society, and plural. And it is not true, as the Foreign Minister says, that the Spanish is not taught. You said last week, Mr Cantó, that we must create free and autonomous beings who have the right to decide what they want to be, what they want to think, what they want to believe, and I absolutely agree. The problem is that you cannot accept that others, freely, think differently from you, that they feel their identity different, that they are different. Neither Catalan nationalism nor Basque nationalism was born in school. Yes Spanish nationalism did, yes Spanish nationalism did in the 19th century through the school, and now I'm going to get into it. [[Applauds]] The school influences on ideology when we see that nationalist majorities remain more or less stable in one place or another, and it has been forty years since the competences in education have been held. Have people who went to vote on 1 October who were eighty, seventy or sixty years old been ideologized by the Catalan school? [[The lady]] You say that history is the raw material of which nationalist, ethnic and fundamentalist ideologies are nourished, and you made an appointment. What happens is that you believe in your history of sacred Spain, in your myths. It's not a problem for you, and that should be what you taught, from Don Pelayo to Cid, Pizarro and Cortés and the Blue Division, and that would be great. But, of course, you do not want things to be counted as they have to be counted, and it is that before the French Revolution and before the 19th there was a division of countries within a crown but with different languages, with different parliaments, with different rights. For example, the Spanish flag of when is it? Since when is it a Spanish flag? [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral makes gestures from the seat]] Yeah, yeah, tell me... [[Señor Cantó García del Moral shows a photograph, which reads: L'école en català ara e sempre, entre deux steladas]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u115	Mr. Esteban, just a moment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u116	Five hundred years ago?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u117	Mr. Esteban, one second, please. I'll give you the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that this is the Congress of Deputies and, for some of the attitudes I am seeing, it does not look like the House of Representatives of the citizens at all. Go on, Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u118	The first king of Spain with such title was Amadeo de Saboya, at the end of the 19th century. That I don't know if it's taught in the Spanish school in general. The other day he said one thing during the interpellation that impressed me: '... a Catalan government - he said - that governs for the García, Martínez, López, Sánchez, Rodríguez, Fernández, and so on until the thirty-three most common surnames in Catalonia that, however, are governed by a government that is formed by the Mas, Romeva, Turull, Puigdemont, Junqueras, Forcadell and the mother who gave birth to them...'. Mr. Esteban Bravo tells you: you are a racist and a sectarian. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] A racist and a sectarian. Awesome. And he also said, '... open the head, the mind of our children, which is what we really think is important.' Of course I do. That's what I'm saying. But you should open yours a little bit, your little head, because all the speeches I hear - really, everyone - are intolerant and aggressive. It disgusts you the difference, disgusts you, and lives it with an incredible existential discomfort. You never seek the agreement in this House, not once have I seen you do it. You, Mr. Cantó, really are a Spanish fundamentalist, a Suffolk fundamentalist, a Suffolk supremacist. [[Applauds]] All this you pour here in front of others. Look in the mirror sometime, because whoever spits in the air, at the end the saliva falls on his face. Look at yourself in the mirror. [[Laughter and applause]] You told the minister the other day that the pact for education is the place where all these things have to be achieved, change the law, etc. With those ideas you do not want any pact, you do not want any agreement, you want imposition. Reaching an agreement with the majority of votes? Yeah. But you want to talk to us, you really want to talk to that attitude? I'm willing to talk to you, all of you, but as you continue to do so, you're going to end up focusing on PP, and look how hard it is to focus on PP! [[Laughter and applause]] You are the right-right of this House. It's amazing. You made a speech... And he talks about a pact for education.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u119	Mr. Esteban, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u120	I'm done, Madam President. If you are not able to make friends in the House, how can you do them in the education pact? I truly tell you, I pity you, because living with that more peculiar attitude of Torquemada must be a vital anguish. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause. - Several ladies and gentlemen: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u121	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Mena Arca has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u122	Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Today I cannot stop speaking to ask for the freedom of Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart. [[Applauds]] It is unacceptable that political prisoners remain in prison in twenty-first century Spain. Señor Cantó, indoctrination defines RAE as instilling in someone certain ideas or beliefs. Do you know who indoctrinates in Spain? They indoctrinate Opus schools that you support with your abstention in concerts to segregate students. Indoctrinate and indoctrinate in Spain, Mr Cantó, the Franco school, and I have had to do with these eyes, when you were still in UPyD at the hand of Rosa Díez, how Citizens left the Parliament of Catalonia in order not to have to condemn that pre-constitutional regime. That's what I saw in the Parliament of Catalonia. But, gentlemen, to say that the Catalan public school is as false as what Minister Dastis said this weekend saying that there is no Spanish language teaching in schools in Catalonia. From here, I take this opportunity: Minister, ask forgiveness or resign. [[Applauds]] Señor Cantó, I have been indoctrinated in that Catalan school, I am the son of linguistic immersion. Thanks to the linguistic immersion and the Catalan public school, a son of two Andalusians who arrived in Catalonia, as I am, today is bilingual and has had the same equal opportunities as the children of the Catalan bourgeoisie in Catalonia have traditionally had. [[Applauds]] And that, Mr. Singing, is a social treasure. And look how badly I've been indoctrinated that I finished studying Spanish Philology and I'm a teacher of Spanish Language and Literature. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Bravo!-Applause]] That is, Mr Cantó, the indoctrination in schools in Catalonia. Señor Cantó, the public school has given the best of Catalonia; the Catalonia that drinks of Martí i Pol and also of García Lorca; the one that dances to the sound of La Santa Espina and also of the rumba of Peret; the Catalonia of Stopa and that of Charango; the Catalonia of Cesk Freixas and that of Antonio Orozco; that of Jordi Évole and Pérez Andújar; that of Macaco, that of Duquende and also that of Sylvia Comas and that of Meritxell Gené. The Catalan school has built Catalonia of all; Catalonia of respect; Catalonia, Mr Cantó, which rejects that ethnicist discourse that you have had here today in this Congress. And it is that the model of Catalan integration school is the one that has allowed Catalan society to respond to the cry of: 'Volem accollir' and the cry of'som gents de pau', after the worst bloody attacks in La Rambla de Barcelona. These values have been taught by the teachers of the public school in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] And you, gentlemen of Citizens, the day after two democrats spend the night in prison in the country where their corrupt partners camp on the streets because Citizens keep them in power corrupting the institutions, that day you have the indecency to present a motion like this, that the only thing you pursue is more division, more confrontation and burning our streets. [[Rumors.- Mr. Cantó García del Moral makes negative gestures]] Citizens' liberalist centralists are going right to the People's Party government, that's what's going on. [[Applauds]] Do you know what a fellow professor told me when she told him that today I had to make this intervention in the Congress of Deputies? He said to me: Do you really think that a teacher has time to indoctrinate? We have the most precarious teaching staff in Europe, with contracts on average and even for thirds of a day, with an average of thirty-two students per classroom, attending TDA, TEA, dyslexia, dilalias, dyscalculations, no extra resources, preparing didactic programs, attending families without tutoring hours in precarious facilities. These are the real problems that schools in Spain have and on which you are unable to bring a proposal to this Congress of Deputies. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] Either you have very bad faith or you have not stepped into your life a public school in Catalonia, or perhaps both, which could also be. [[Applauds]] I'm done, Madam President. Do not look for the rise of independence in Catalan schools, look for it in the bad policies of the PP against Catalonia, all supported by Citizens. There is a very wise Spanish saying - for you to see that a Catalan indoctrinate like me also handles the Spanish saying - that says that when a fool takes a linde, he ends the linde and follows the fool. [[Laughter]] You are precisely a party that feeds on sowing division in Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u123	Your Honor, just a moment. [[Protests]] It's got to end, 'cause it's way out of date.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u124	I'm done, Madam President. You were born to divide and continue to feed the division as fleshly birds by four miserable vows. While some of us leave the skin to sew at such complicated moments, asking for dialogue and respect for the consensus of Catalan society, you only bring proposals to divide. [[Rumors]] Stop being irresponsible. We are playing social cohesion in Catalonia for the next forty years and you come here with a boat full of gasoline. Thank you. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Congratulations!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Joint Group (PDeCAT)]] - Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on their feet).
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u125	Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u126	Thank you, Madam President. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u127	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u128	Mr Cantó, of great concern I would call this motion sensationalist, irresponsible and of course the result of a great ignorance of the educational reality of this country. I think we're going to give him a lesson in education and how the education system in Spain works. Firstly, there is not enough data or evidence that there is a general problem that can be described as indoctrination in Spain. In spite of this, Citizens propose a whole reformulation of the principles of freedom of education and in a hasty and unscrupulous way they want to turn the High Inspectorate of Education of the State into a kind of internal police within the educational system. By the way, it must be said that the high inspection does not even have to be done by educational inspectors of centres. I'm a teacher, I'm a Castilian, I'm neither Catalan, I'm Valencian or I'm a ballerina, and I've been deeply offended by the shadows of suspicion that you're throwing at the teachers of this country. [[Applauds]] And, yes, there have been some concrete and clearly critical cases that require maximum constancy: cases of school harassment, but for these cases there is a protocol of intervention and, as such, it has been addressed by the educational community, teachers and also the management teams, which have given public samples of integration, respect and operation of guarantees in the classroom. This is what we must highlight and transmit for the tranquility of the citizens of this country. In addition, Mr Cantó, I must also remind you that there are common mechanisms to ensure and ensure that every educational institution complies with the law, just as there are management teams, internal regulations and programming that are supervised by the educational inspectors. The educational inspection works in Spain, the ordinary educational inspection, which, by the way, depends on the autonomous communities, which are the competent ones. In addition, they perform their duties in any form of possible complaint, and it is through reports that they must issue when other types of proceedings can be initiated, such as bringing them to the attention of the prosecution. Therefore, the procedures are already regulated, we do not need to be brought with us a model of high inspection, because the only thing they want to do is absolutely police control in educational establishments. I remind you that we are in the state of self-government, competent in the field of education, and although you apparently do not like this model of educational decentralization, we are very pleased with the great achievements that this country's education has brought. I must also make it clear that Article 150 of the Lomce lays down the powers of the High Educational Inspectorate, which, of course, are to ensure compliance with organic laws throughout the territory, to ensure equality of opportunity and the proper and balanced granting of scholarships, but in no way to inspect or enter educational establishments, and of course this group does not consider it appropriate to amend this rule in respect of autonomous competences. They hold the laws responsible for the indoctrination that is taking place in schools, and they claim that there has been a abandonment of the functions of the various governments, that they have planted the ground for the promotion of hatred and radicalization, and that the autonomous educational administrations have contributed to this. Your Honor, this is a false, manipulative and terribly irresponsible argument that does a lot of damage to education in this country. In Spain there is no indoctrination... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u129	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u130	... even in educational institutions hatred or radicalisation is encouraged. I do not want to see anything where there is no such thing or create a climate of suspicion about the good doing of the vast majority of teachers and directors of this country. Señor Cantó, I must also remind you that there is a principle in education, which is the freedom of chair... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u131	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u132	... or teaching, which is reflected in several rulings of the Constitutional Court and which is based on article 16 of the Constitution. Freedom of tenure is also limited to the exercise of a subject or subject. Therefore, in those cases where it can be documented that these limits have been exceeded, there are already legal mechanisms in place to punish them and to protect the rights of those affected. There is another principle that must be implicit in the education system, and it is the confidence in education professionals to educate, train and educate children and young people in this country. With this motion, the only thing you are creating is a tremendous mistrust in your daily work and questions your objectivity and ideological impartiality. We understand that the goal of the education system in this country must be the comprehensive training of our children, to provide them with training in shared values and education to be responsible and non-manipulable citizens, to develop a sense and a critical attitude in their lives, to learn to learn and think for themselves. This work must be facilitated by teachers and the education system must guarantee it, hence the importance that this group has always given to Education for Citizenship; indeed, it must be remembered that it is based on constitutional content, but it is a subject that must be for all students, not as has happened with Lomce, that what has been done has been to force them to choose between religion or civic values. We consider it very risky what you intend, to implement a general measure for isolated cases, questioning the professionalism of teachers and directors throughout Spain. For all these reasons our vote is not going to be, because you confuse everything, create a problem where there is no problem, create alarmism spreading a problem very localized to the whole of Spain, a problem in a context of a tremendous difficulty and that we observe with great concern in the rest of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u133	Mrs. Martinez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u134	I'm done. This motion does not provide a single solution and questions the autonomous competition system, because for the situations that you denounce there are perfectly established mechanisms that only require the correct application of what already exists. Thank you very much. [[Mr Cantó García del Moral asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Singing.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u136	If you'll allow me, simply by allusions, I would like to take the floor. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u137	Quiet, please. Tell me the article you want to speak for.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u138	Madam President, I do not know very well what the article is, but Mr Esteban has called me racist and I would like to respond to those accusations because they seem serious enough to me. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u139	If you have asked for a point of order under the Rule of Procedure, what is expected is for you to say why you have been mentioned and also to say whether you want that point to be withdrawn, but it is not a point of order, I would remind you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u140	I ask that Mr Esteban, who belongs to Sabino Arana's PNV, withdraw the racist accusation he made to me a few moments ago from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Esteban, to answer whether or not you withdraw the allusion to which Mr Cantó refers.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u142	In his speech Mr Cantó expressly referred to the difference in surnames. If that's not racism, tell me. I do not withdraw it, as I believe that the statement of Mr Campuzano should not have been withdrawn the other day, and instead the insults made to the nationalists remain in the Journal of Sessions, and many come from that bench and Mr Cantó. [[Applauds]] I'm not taking it back.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u143	Thank you very much. I'm not giving any more speaking time, ladies and gentlemen. Both Mr Cantó and Mr Esteban have used the time provided for in the Rules of Procedure. All honourable Members are aware that not only these allusions, but all those made here, all the speeches, including those of the President speaking to you, are collected for today, but especially for the history of this House. I shall call you to the vote in five minutes. [[Pause]] Let's start the vote. [[The ladies]] , with a carnation in their hand, they show posters in which they read: Freedom political prisoners. Sanchez. Cuixart). I beg your gentlemen to remove the posters, please. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I call you to order. Mrs. Ciuro i Buldo...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u144	We vote, first, on the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, amending article 34 of the Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 23 October, approving the consolidated text of the Act on the Status of Workers to include the obligation to register daily and including the specific time of entry and exit for each worker. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 2 votes in favour, 321 votes in favour, 155 votes in favour, 2 votes in favour, 157 votes in favour, 164 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u145	It's approved. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, amending Law 1/1996 of 10 January 1996 on free legal assistance. [[File number 122/000102]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u146	We now proceed to vote on the proposal for a law of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress to amend Law 1/1996 of 10 January on Free Legal Assistance. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The result was: present, 320 plus 2 votes cast telematically; yes, 159 plus 1 vote cast telematically; no, 160; abstentions, 1. There's been a tie. [[Rumors]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause]] These are the problems that the telematic vote has, I remind you. [[Rumors]] The voting was as follows: 320 plus 2 telematics votes, 322; 159 plus 1 telematics vote, 160; 160 against 160 plus 1 telematics vote, 161; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u147	It is therefore rejected. [[Rumors]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, yes, this is what the telematic vote is.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u148	We shall now proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals on what has been agreed in the course of the debate. No bill by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the reinstatement of the unemployment benefit for persons over 52 years of age. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 191 against, 125 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u149	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on Impulsing THE CELEBRATION ON 6 DECEMBER 2018 OF THE 'SPANISH CONSTITUTION'S SCHEDULED ANALYSIS OF THE 1978 CONSTITUTION'. [[File number 162/000430]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u150	We now vote on the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group to promote the celebration on December 6, 2018 of the fortieth anniversary of the Spanish Constitution of 1978. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 316 votes in favour, 237 against, 74 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u151	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u152	We shall now proceed to the voting on the motions as a result of urgent questioning. In the first place, the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea to ensure real and effective equal pay for men and women and to develop the wage transparency commitment set out in the European Commission Recommendation of 7 March 2014. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the parliamentary groups People, Socialist, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Ciudadanos y Vasco, PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes cast; 320 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u153	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON IDEOLOGIC ADOCTRIMINATION IN EDUCATION CENTRES IN SPAIN. [[File number 173/000052]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u154	We now vote on the motion following an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group into ideological indoctrination in educational institutions in Spain. It is voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 34 against, 164 abstentions, 122.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-17-CD171017.u155	It's rejected. [[Applauds]] The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was seven and five minutes in the afternoon.
