ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u1	The meeting was called to order. We begin with the only item on the agenda, corresponding to the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 8/2017 of 12 May, amending the regime of workers for the provision of the port service of handling of goods, complying with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 11 December 2014, remitted in case C-576/13 [[infringement procedure 2009/4052]] To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Development has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear in this House to submit for your consideration the validation of Royal Decree-Law 8/2017, which was approved by the Council of Ministers on 12 May. It amends the system of workers for the provision of the port service for handling goods, thus complying with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 11 December 2014. The judgment in question condemns the Kingdom of Spain for considering that the legal regime in which the port service for the handling of goods is established contravenes Article 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union on freedom of establishment. This is because it imposes on companies wishing to carry out this activity the following obligations: firstly, to participate in the capital of an anonymous shipping company known as Sagep and, secondly, to hire workers made available by that company as a priority. For this reason, the royal decree-law, as its own denomination indicates, has as its sole objective to give strict compliance to the judgment on the Spanish legal regime of port workers. Thus, the royal decree has only four articles. Article 1 establishes the object of the royal decree-law. Article 2 provides for strict compliance with the judgment, i.e. the non-obligation of the holding companies to participate in the share capital of any holding company making available to port workers and, secondly, the freedom to hire workers by the holding companies, provided that they comply with any of the requirements laid down in the following Article. Article 3 defines such objective and transparent training requirements for the provision of port cargo handling services. These requirements are not other than those of the recognition of professional experience through a certificate of professionalism regulated in Royal Decree 988/2013, which includes the realization of non-working professional practices in port facilities in the terms that are determined by regulation, or alternatively being able to certify one hundred working days in the service of handling goods in any State of the Union. Article 4 regulates the possibility of the creation of the so-called port centres of employment as a stable shared core of staves in the port for the temporary transfer to the staves companies, as has been, on the other hand, usual practice in the ports. Finally, the remaining additional and transitional provisions are aimed at facilitating the orderly transition to the new legal framework for the freedom to hire workers and freedom of enterprise. All this, with the maximum conditions of flexibility allowed by the European Commission, is compatible - that is to say - with the enforcement of the judgment. Thus, a transitional period of three years is set for the progressive downward compulsory use of Sagep staff: 75, 50 and 25 % respectively. On the other hand, a system of compensation is established by the harbour administrations, articulated through the harbour rates earned by the summer companies, which will take place only when the realization of some labor liabilities occurs. In addition, this would take place at any temporary time when such realization would occur for any of the objective causes of an individual or collective nature in the terms laid down in the Workers' Statute; otherwise, the assumption of workers' labour liabilities, which facilitates - encourages - the subrogation of workers by placing them on an equal footing with those workers who were newly employed. The current funds of maneuver of the harbour authorities would allow them - where necessary - to meet these obligations, without conditioning the levels of investment that are already included in the multiannual programming of approved investments and, therefore, to be able to continue with the policy of reduction of harbour rates. As more notable changes regarding the royal decree-law that we adopted in February, I would like to highlight the following. Firstly, an additional first provision relating to temporary contracts has been removed, with the obligation that an increase in the business share of social security due to contingency would not apply in temporary contracts with an effective duration of less than seven days. We understand that this may clear up any doubts about labour protection that does not affect the enforcement of the sentence. Secondly, and most importantly, a third final provision has been included which provides for the regulatory development of this royal decree-law. In particular, it is said that the Government will adopt a royal decree containing the mediation proposal dated 30 March 2017, ending the tripartite mediation between trade union organizations, the business association and the Government. With this subparagraph, the Government complies with what it had already announced, i.e., it collects the final product of the negotiation, the final product of the social dialogue table that started on 21 February and ended with this mediation on 30 March 2017. That is to say, we fulfilled 100 per cent of a commitment made public by the Government at the end of that mediation process. At this point, I would like once again to thank, on behalf of the Government, for the extraordinary work that mediator Marcos Peña has done in a frankly difficult situation. The purpose of this proposal is to maintain the employment of the current Sagep workers and to improve the organization and productivity of the summer sector through the agreement of trade unions and business associations and the establishment of a system of aid for early retirement for older workers, which will be developed regularly through the Royal Decree to which I shall refer later. Thirdly, there is also an amendment to Article 3 concerning the training requirements of workers for the provision of the port freight handling service. This amendment makes provision for no need for a vocational training certificate, but simply and simply because there really is no own, exclusive vocational training certificate for the estuary whose regulatory content corresponds specifically to the activity of handling goods. We therefore believe that this issue does not alter the content of the judgment or the plurality of the persons who can freely carry out the work of the greenhouse. Moreover, it is envisaged that the certificate of professionalism - this one was in the royal decree-law - will require the realization of these professional practices non-labour in harbour facilities in the sense that it develops the royal decree. It is considered that the realization of these practices is necessary in order to reach from the beginning of the labor incorporation high levels of productivity in the activities corresponding to the harbour service in order to maintain the competitiveness of the Spanish ports before, for example, the ships that require short periods of stay of the ships in port. We would like to make it very clear that this certificate of professionalism has to be issued by an official institute and that under no circumstances are we talking about practices to be carried out with no list or quota character, but there is free access to that certificate of professionalism and the corresponding practices. In addition, with regard to the single derogation provision, the scope of the regulatory derogation in relation to article 130.3(c) of the Ports Act has been modified in its last subparagraph. This section concerns port handling of unregistered motor vehicles. As you know, the current Ports Act regulates it in two articles. It is true that in one of them, in 130.3(c) it was established that this task of embarking and disembarking any kind of vehicle was outside the estuary sector, but it is also true that a subsequent article of the same law, 155, nullified the effect of the previous article because it gave Sagep workers preferential choice to carry out this type of activity. Therefore, there was legal protection in the current Ports Act to ensure that the dockers were the ones carrying out the tasks of embarking and disembarking vehicles. Therefore, by repealing the articles in which Sagep was covered, the articles providing for the possibility of carrying out such embarkation and disembarkation of vehicles were also indirectly eliminated. What the Government is doing now is, to some extent, regaining legal capacity by allocating this task to the greenhouse, but it is also important to make it clear here that since it is not the greenhouse, from the validation of this royal decree-law, a monopolistic sector - it is a liberalized sector - this activity can be carried out by different people and companies operating in the market and therefore have been incorporated into the greenhouse sector as a liberalized sector. In any case, it is also good to note that the current situation in our country is that this service is carried out by the stoves themselves and only in the case that the stoves are insufficient to carry out this task in a port are there third parties who meet the specific demands higher than those that can be met by those stoves. Finally, the second additional provision provides for the possibility of port agreements to which I shall refer later. I would like to point out that the Government has already finalized the draft of the Royal Decree that makes this Royal Decree-Law legally. Yesterday, as we committed ourselves, we moved this draft, before the administrative procedure, to trade unions and employers for analysis. Therefore, this work has already been completed. As I said earlier, it contains mediation, i.e. the ability to reach agreements on a voluntary basis, through the relevant agreements, in these processes for the maintenance of employment. There are also a number of productivity measures that are in the mediation, mostly proposed by trade unions and employers, and the - very important - subsidies that benefit port dockers who have been providing services through the Sagep. This Royal Decree, which is to be adopted, provides for consideration of the characteristics of professional practices. In particular, that they reach 660 hours and that at least 75% of them have to be carried out in ports and the remaining 25% may be using a simulator. I would like to make it clear that the legislation that must be amended as a result of the judgment is not solely the responsibility of the Government, but of the whole of this House. This is because it affects laws that have emerged from this House under different governments and with different majorities, but in particular the current State and Merchant Navy Ports Act, adopted in 2010, with a government of the Socialist Party, although with a broad parliamentary consensus. Therefore, we are obliged to correct this situation, we were two months ago, so of course we are still now and increasingly in need, since the judgment must be enforced before an imminent second judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point, I would also like to highlight the effort we have made in the negotiation, because from the beginning we have sought to ensure that the content of the Royal Decree-Law was with the utmost agreement and consensus between the social and business players in the port sector. With this objective, shared by all, of ensuring the stability of the sector, with a smooth and consensual transition from the current model of stove, which is the question of the judgment, to a new model required by it. In this has been very important tripartite mediation, the result of which, I insist, will be incorporated into the royal decree. I want to make it clear that this was not the Government's proposal, but rather the mediation proposal. Already in 2012, starting with the first letter of formal notice, with the aim of avoiding its referral to the court by the Commission, meetings and meetings between trade unions and employers began to try to reach consensus on the replies to the Commission. But those meetings were unsuccessful, so the sentence occurred in 2014. Nevertheless, all contacts continued at all levels to try to comply with that sentence. In particular, during 2015 proposals were exchanged, legal analysis was made by the State services and the issues raised especially by the trade union side were referred to the European Commission, but no progress could be made, as many of these issues maintained the current status quo of the estiba. There was one known to all, which was the existence of a closed and quota register, which gave priority to hiring workers. These issues were unacceptable to the Commission when it questioned the freedom of enterprise and the freedom to hire workers and made it impossible to comply with the judgment. The negotiation continued in 2016, although with a government in office and therefore without legislative capacity to pass a royal decree-law like this. Finally, work has continued in 2017. A document has been sent to the Commission with the legislative amendment, in accordance, as I say, with the conditions laid down by it, but, yes, guaranteeing the maximum conditions of flexibility to maintain workers' rights and maximum competitive equality between companies. The fact that some issues were maintained, such as the one I mentioned in the register or the need for workers' subrogation to be raised by law, is the reason why a mediation process was initiated, which, I repeat, has ended with an agreement. The agreement initialled by the parties was not possible and it is not something that the Government, this minister, said, but that the mediator himself said. That is why mediation is being presented, because it was not possible to close an agreement, and I want to say that the same process fully supports the position of the Government and leaves in evidence those who put as the only condition to facilitate the approval of the royal decree-law the existence of a prior agreement. I can assure you that no one would have liked that agreement more than the Government, but we are clear that this mediation is a meeting point, the result of a process of social dialogue, a process that ends with the maximum consensus that has been reached and that we are committed to raising, as I say, to the appropriate regulatory rank. These changes, resulting from the negotiation and social dialogue, have been sent to the legal services of the Commission, which have already transferred the enforcement of the judgment. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we cannot be European for one thing or for another; if we are European, we are European and more in the enforcement of judgments and in the respect of treaties. We can't say, when we want to, when we're going to serve a sentence and when we don't. We are a serious country and of course none of us would have any authority, any authority, to demand an autonomous community, a city council or any citizen to comply with a judgment of a court if we ourselves are not able to comply with the judgments that the Court of Justice of the European Union itself requires us to comply with. Therefore, our obligation, above all, is not to hinder the work of European justice and to facilitate the enforcement of the sentence. The Government believes that this validation is indefatigable and that is why we have devoted from the first moment to the last all the efforts of the world to seek sufficient support. First of all, as I say, we have to validate it because we thus comply with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. We are talking about our prestige and our credibility as a reliable and respectful European partner with the content of the treaties and driving the European process, all in order to avoid this second condemnation of the Kingdom of Spain, which would be the first to have for breach of the treaties. Secondly, validation is also important to give legal stability and to continue along the path of competitiveness. The consequences of a long period of legal instability for the Spanish port sector, for the Spanish economy as a whole, for our potential exporter, can be very relevant if we do not take into account validation. We've lived it. We have as an example what happened when the first legislative proposal was tabled. From the first week of February onwards, and without a single day of strike, there were a number of consequences which we have already shown and which resulted in a number of damage to goods and equipment, reductions in performance, economic losses and ship diversions. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u3	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u4	It could give you many concrete data on these losses, but it is simply good to remember that, in addition to all these things, alternative logistic chains were used by producers and shippers in other European and African ports due to these calls, with the consequent increase of the logistic costs for our productive system and, above all, with the consequent loss - in some cases definitive - of flows of goods of the Spanish port system. As you know, as a result of the adoption of the new Royal Decree-Law, new strikes have again been held. Ladies and gentlemen, let me take this opportunity to ask the trade unions and also the employers for wisdom, measure and common sense, from the utmost respect - as it could not otherwise be - for the right to strike. I'd miss more! I ask this out of conviction, because we believe that the royal decreeley and this royal decree that develops the royal decreeley establish sufficient bases and contain the appropriate tools to reach agreements that bring stability and to ensure that the corresponding collective agreements aimed at maintaining employment and improving the productivity of companies are concluded. Agreements can be reached in very short time if there is will on the part of the parties. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is time for dialogue and not for pressure. It's time to sit in every port to close deals. In this regulation they probably have more measures and more incentives than any other productive sector in our recent history to reach such agreements. The other thing we already know where it leads us: nowhere. We know that its effects end up being negative for the whole country, for our economy and also for the workers, not only for the stoves themselves, but for those of other companies that export or import through our ports. Thirdly and lastly, validation is also necessary to avoid the substantial economic sanctions requested by the Commission to the Court of Justice of the European Union in the event of non-compliance with judgments; very high penalties which would have to be paid with public money. This is a lump sum of more than EUR 27 500 per day from the date on which the judgment was handed down - so to this day this sum amounts to already more than EUR 24 million - and a coercive fine which exceeds EUR 134 000 from the day on which the second judgment is handed down until the day on which it is fully executed; a judgment which could have already fallen, ladies and gentlemen, and which may have fallen today or tomorrow. Therefore, we are absolutely in discount time. I would like to say that, unlike the previous time we came here with the royal decreeley, in this Commission has not, at least to date, transferred to us the guarantee that we can save the payment of the EUR 24 million that we have already earned. On the previous occasion we did, because he assured us of that withdrawal, but on this occasion, for the time being, we do not have that guarantee. Before I finish my speech, I make a comment on the objective shared by all - I am sure that by employers, by trade unions, by the government and by all Members - in relation to the maintenance of employment. It is an objective that will be achieved thanks, among other things, to some provisions that will facilitate the maintenance of the employment of the current stoves, making it compatible with the possibility that companies can organise their work. In this regard, I would like to stress that, among the changes introduced in the Royal Decree-Law, the second additional provision establishes the possibility that it cited the principle of concluding port agreements. They are agreements governing a status similar to that of the related companies, which already contains article 87 of the Workers' Statute, so that collective bargaining takes place between trade unions, employers and their associations and can address the specific needs of each port. This capacity therefore broadens the possibilities for such agreements to be concluded from port to port and, on the other hand, the system of granting public aid envisaged to facilitate an orderly transition to workers who voluntarily decide to benefit from it. In particular, port estabadores may be granted to those who remain sixty months or less in order to gain access to the ordered retirement from the date of entry into force of the royal decree-law, aid which will also be extended during the transitional period to those ports which on 31 December 2016 have had occupancy rates of less than 85 %. Workers receiving such aid are guaranteed the necessary social security contributions, which will be made effective by signing the relevant special agreements up to the statutory retirement age with a grant equivalent to 70 % of the average wage bill for all the concepts corresponding to the six months preceding the lay-off. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen. After an analysis of the situation and a broad ratification of the grounds of urgency required by the Constitution, the Government decided to adopt in the Council of Ministers on 12 May this royal decree-law for the enforcement of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. As I have already told you, this regulatory proposal does not really respond to a strictly political decision linked to an ideological approach; we are talking about strict compliance with a judgment and, therefore, I would like to reiterate that the margin of action that has been taken has been absolutely conditioned by such compliance. That is to say, we are not facing any real decree-law, for the simple reason that we do not have broad political negotiating margins, but narrow negotiating margins marked by the enforcement of the judgment and marked by the European Commission's own red lines. Validation is necessary for the compliance with the treaties, to strengthen the competitiveness of the Spanish economy, on which also depends the maintenance of private investment in the ports and the future of our country as an important logistic base for international maritime transport; to avoid facing important sanctions with public money and to re-establish social stability in the Spanish port sector. Undoubtedly the content of this royal decree-law is a matter that transcends borders and that affects our prestige, the prestige of Spain, within the European Union. We are therefore - I said it at the time and I repeat it again now - in the face of a matter of State which requires responsibility, high-mindedness and commitment to legality. It is perfectly possible - as demonstrated by this royal decree-law and the royal decree that develops it - to comply with the sentence and ensure the employment of the sector. A commitment that has been demonstrated with much - let me make a personal reference - my entire team in the Ministry of Development, Ports of the State, with its president at the head, the undersecretary, the cabinets and especially the Secretary of State, Julio Gómez-Pomar, and the technical secretary general, Alicia Segovia. Also the Secretaries of State and the Director-General for Employment, who have done an impressive job, the whole Council of Ministers, with the President at the head, who have done a great job, especially the Vice-President. And I want to make a very unique reference to someone who has been with me and has accompanied me since we prepared and presented that first royal decree-law and who has devoted tens and tens of hours and participated with me on countless occasions, and is my companion here present Fatima Báñez. I would also like to express my gratitude and that of the Government to those groups that have already advanced their support for validation or are going to facilitate it; I am referring to UPN, the Forum, the support we have had since the beginning of the Basque Group and the support already transferred on this occasion as Citizens. I would also like to thank the work done in the past two months by the PDECAT, in which it has spent a great deal of time negotiating, never wasted, to bring the agreements as close as possible and carried out for quite a few weeks in close communication and dialogue with the Government. I would also like to thank in advance all those who go - which I do not know - to facilitate their approval. Some, I have to say here, have not wanted to sit down and negotiate, but others have taken a step forward in a difficult political context and have spent their time on it. I want to thank all of them. I therefore ask the House to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u5	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. In a political decision foreign to the rule of law, two months ago the majority of the Congress of Deputies rejected the validation of the royal decree-law on the estiba, failing to comply with the judgment of the European Court and dragging Spain towards the non-compliance with the judgments and towards the intransigence of the Community regulatory changes in the work of estiba that are carried out in our public ports by companies or entities that are private. Regardless of the responsibility assumed by the parties to the conflict, the Ministry of Development, businessmen and port workers, on which everyone has his own opinion, the fact is that the decision of the Plenary of the Congress gave continuity to the obstacles that hinder the competitiveness of our ports of general interest and closed the opportunity for companies from other Member States of the European Union to develop the activity of handling goods. Because what European integration seeks with the forging of a single or internal market serves to promote and enhance the free movement of goods and that we can all make the most of its advantages, translating them into economic growth, more and better jobs and higher quality of life. This morning, in this second validation attempt to reverse the abnormal and unusual breach by Spain of the obligations arising from our membership of the European Union, Forum will again support with its vote, as we did and defended in this rostrum on 16 March, the measures envisaged in the royal decree-law transposing the European Union judgment. We are confident that today the majority of the plenary will put an end to this situation, which is costing the Spaniards a lot of money for the sanctioning regime that is being applied and that it is putting both the competitiveness and the very important economic activity that our forty-two port spaces generate in all their area of influence in check. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u7	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to Mr Matute García de Jalón for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u8	Minister, today you come back here and disguise us as an aseptic process, as you did the previous time, almost administratively and swiftly, under the fear and threat of European fines, a decision that is the daughter of political bets, of a bet, yours, by a certain model of society and country. Today, still today, they are shocked when they see that in the port of Piraeus, in Greece, a part of it is privatized and in the hands of Chinese capital and that it is working in conditions of semi-slavery. Tomorrow, when that happens thanks to the liberalisation that you propose, here too some of you will applaud it and others will say that there is no choice but that you do not like it. That's what happens all the time. It's the same sequence. Then, that yes, a lot of flag, yours, very patriotic, but leaving and selling sovereignty at every step, for greater glory of the results account of the companies always. From Euskal Herria Bildu we tell you clearly that the time in which you have our resources and our territory is beginning to touch to its end, that we want control of our ports and that these are public, of all the Basques, and with labor rights of all the stables. By the way, comrades of the PNV, this is our Basque agenda and it is certainly not our agenda to support the People's Party, which will leave 700 stowers and stowers in Euskal Herria in the wire. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, have failed to fulfil each and every good purpose that you announced after your previous defeat and today, in this rostrum, I sincerely believe you have lied. They have not informed the workers in time and form, there has been no dialogue with them, they have not respected their initial agreement with Anesco and short-circuited it with a mediation of any interested point, they do not guarantee their labour and social rights, they do not guarantee their subrogation if they wish. A Government can always choose at least two ways, to try to solve the problems of its citizens and to protect them in their rights and freedoms from any aggression or, on the contrary, to serve as a servant of economic power, even against its own citizens and citizens. With this decree it is clear that they have chosen the second option. I hope you have the social, working and popular response that your decision deserves. From Euskal Herria Bildu our frontal rejection of this decree and this attack on the workers and our support for those who fight for dignity in their jobs. He said a Basque poet, Gabriel Aresti, when he spoke of the stiflers in a poem called Cursing on the Pier of Zorrotza, that 'Because injustice is not polyglot / and treats equal to the Castilian / and the Basque. [[...]] I'll always stand by the man's side. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u9	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u10	Thank you, President. A couple of months ago, Mr De la Serna, we told him in this House that he had to reach an agreement with the workers. Today they bring us an agreement, but quite different from what we had asked of him, it is an agreement between political parties, an agreement resulting from the marketing of votes and not from social dialogue. And today he asks us for wisdom. Sensatez is listening to the workers, and against them they will not find us. Compromís is not going to be next to the powers, we are going to be next to the workers of the greenhouse. Six years ago they knew the European Commission's opinion, six years ago this urgent problem began, when they had an absolute majority, then they defended it as occupational safety; today they say it is monopoly. The famous sentence came in 2014. I guess nothing will have to do with 2014 and 2015 being years of elections - local, autonomous, state and even European, all - and neither did it advance. Now, after six years and three sentences, it is an urgent problem. I'm sorry, but this for any normal person is hypocrisy. They do not deceive anyone, their will is to destroy all labor rights. Don't get confused, they're not privileges, they're rights. Historically, labour rights have been achieved through labour struggle and strike. And you'll tell me what you're going to do, because paralyzed ports are going to be an urgent problem and it's going to be your responsibility, Mr. Íñigo De la Serna. Finally, a message to the whole House and in particular to PDECAT: We still have one possibility, we still have the possibility to process this royal decree as a bill in order to have the opportunity to present amendments and improve this text. Therefore, from here I ask you to vote in favour of such a bill and we will have the opportunity, at least, to improve it both by the political parties and by the greenhouse sector. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u11	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u12	Thank you very much, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will telegraph our position. Why, how and what have we changed? Why are we acting like we're acting? For a commitment to Europe, for a commitment to the European institutions. It is not a receipt, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, that almost three years later we will have a judgment to comply with and a judgment that is about to come. A clear message must now be sent to Europe of commitment to its project and to its institutions. I am sure that today in Brussels they will take note of the attitude of the Democratic Party in this House. We also need to generate legal certainty both in ports and in port investments. How did we do it? The PDeCat has heard, has spoken with entrepreneurs, with workers, with trade unions, with associations, with ports, with port authorities, with the Government of the Generalitat, with the mediator, and after knowing what was requested, we have negotiated. We have negotiated with the Government and tabled amendments to the draft. There are five modifications. The what. How has this royal decree changed with respect to the previous one? Article 3 concerning vocational training. Additional first provision of the previous decree, which was abolished and made it possible to breach section 151 of the Social Security Act with regard to the overcutting of certain temporary contracts. An additional new second provision has been introduced which allows for the possibility of agreements in ports that supersede the company agreements. A single derogation provision has been introduced; a new derogation provision has been introduced in relation to Article 130(3)(e), which is very important for the port of Barcelona and the port of Tarragona. The third final provision has also been amended not only by introducing subsequent regulation by the mediator's agreement, but also some considerations that we are going to add. There are therefore five important amendments. And to these five modifications we must add some that we have incorporated also in the royal decree regarding the formation, regarding the harbour centers of employment and regarding the extension to three years of the aids in those ports, which are seven or eight, that require this additional aid. We have therefore acted responsibly with the European institutions and we have acted responsibly with regard to the ports of Catalonia, the Catalan economy and Catalonia. Obviously, this has left a framework for negotiations between the parties to be possible now. Just as this negotiation has taken place correctly and responsibly on other occasions, we are sure that companies and trade unions, which employers' associations and trade unions, will be able to conclude these agreements that will improve not only the conditions for the maintenance of employment, not only the conditions of competitiveness of our companies...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u13	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u14	...but also from our ports and our economy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u16	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It was not Javier, but Gabriel Aresti the Basque poet of Bilbao who sang, among others, to the port of Bilbao, and whose best-known poem begins by saying: 'I will defend my father's house'. [[Continues your intervention in Basque]] And in that territory is where we are moving both on other issues as on this one, in which of course the defense of the ports of Bilbao and of Passages have been the axis that has moved us to reach certain kinds of agreements and to understand that a real decree-law was necessary in compliance with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Well, today we attend the second phase of the same question: a real decree-law that was not previously accepted by this House and which also invited, in addition, to practice dialogue with social representation, today returns to the House with different modifications that affect, first, its operative part, the structure, which has four articles and an additional provision when there were two before, and as the main novelty before entered to enable the regulatory development a single ministry and now there are two, that of Employment and that of Development. Its operative part, as the representative of the PDECAT has just recalled, has several amendments. The main one is possibly that of the requirements of the training of the workers for the provision of the port service of handling of goods, that obtains a new wording that is due, we understand, to an assignment in order to maintain the current control that the unions maintain on the formation of the estubadors, since the curricular titles initially contemplated in the Royal Decree-Law 4/2017 for the access to the profession and is now only maintained the certificate of professionalism with the additional obligation to carry out practices in harbour terminals before the access to the job of estubador, which indicates certain role of the unions in that access that will entail the maintenance of the previous situation. There are several other issues. The former first additional provision provided for in Royal Decree-Law 4/2017 is deleted and thus the abolition of the 36% increase in corporate social security contributions on certain issues, because it eliminates that paragraph, which seems to be due to new pressure from a social point of view. Now the former additional second provision becomes first, it has the same wording, and the new additional second provision, which is truly transcendent, contemplates an important novelty, which is the priority of the collective enterprise agreement with respect to the sectoral collective agreement, a criterion which for the collective of the estuba is maintained being equated to this effect enterprise to port. We understand that this occurs in order to avoid possible interpretative doubts and gives it a wording that equates these port agreements to the agreements for a group of companies or conventions that affect a plurality of companies linked for organizational or productive reasons and to this end refers the legitimation to negotiate article 87.2 of the Workers' Statute, that is, to the one fixed for sectoral agreements, favoring the position of the most representative unions. There is, as the previous speaker has pointed out, a single derogating provision which provides for a new derogating or derogating element of Article 130.3(c) of the Ports Act, in which we certainly understand that it is the most controversial decision in the text. By the way, we believe that this assignment is probably the most unwarranted, since the rest seem to have as its object to improve or alleviate the position of the stoves with respect to the previous royal decree-law and yet in this particular section it goes beyond and we understand that it goes back in the matter of liberalization with respect to the previous situation by including within the consideration of the port service of summer the manipulation of new cars without registration that, according to the current Law of Ports, at least theoretically were excluded from the port service. Finally, a new paragraph 2 is included in the third final provision, the purpose of which is to enable the adoption of a subsequent royal decree that reflects the tripartite mediation that Mr Peña pointed out on 30 March 2017 and, consequently, a new package of social measures. In short, we understand that this is a short journey with bushels, however full for some, that for some it can be justified and not for others, but that it practically exhausts the margins allowed by the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and that it remains pending only its regulatory development, which obviously also serves a social purpose. Not only are we not going to oppose it, but, as we said before, we are going to support it. We understand this because if it was necessary before not only to avoid those elements of sanctions that entail the breach of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, it is also necessary to give certain security, viability and known legal regime to the existing ports, and also in that which affects the Basques for the ports of Pasaia and Bilbao. That will not alter our decision, which will continue to be that of supporting the royal decree-law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u17	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u18	Thank you, Madam President. [[Start your intervention in Catalan]] Minister, we are back here and we come by the presentation of a new royal decree-law for the regulation of the greenhouse, a royal decree-law very different from that presented to us on 16 March. The first reflection is why what was imminent on March 16th today can be so different. When you want us to pass the responsibility of the fine I would say to you: why did not this decree arrive before? Just as the fine would have to be paid by others for not having worked as well as now, which is much closer, as we said, to the workers. [[Applauds]] Minister, then we told you that this decree-law went far beyond the judgment of the Court of the European Union; time has given us reason, has legitimised our no and has once again left the People's Party and its citizens' acolytes in evidence. Today we are presented with a real decree-law much more suited to the interests of the workers of the greenhouse. It was possible to improve and we rejoice; we greatly and sincerely value this evolution. The decree was not immobile; see if it was not an immobile decree that has incorporated more than nine pages of text. I used to say, the fine is not our responsibility, think again. Yet he presented it, but fortunately today, and thanks to the fact that this House voted no, the royal decreeley is very different from what we were presented before. Today we have a much better decree. Historical demands from the estuba sector are incorporated, such as continuing to work on the handling of goods from the automotive sector, returning to a pre-2010 situation. It incorporates another historical demand, specific and quality training and the official degree of professional of the estuba, a serious certification that guarantees the training and professionalism of the sector, avoids professional intrusion and minimizes occupational sinestrality in a sector in which it is fundamental for its risk. It is incorporated, in a very interesting statement of intentions, that the port convention may prevail over the company convention. In some ways the great mistake of labour reform is acknowledged, which is partly the cause of many of the precarious problems we suffer. Incentives for the recruitment of contingent personnel have been removed, as stated in the previous decree. In short, we appreciate positively the progress recognized in the new Royal Decree-Law and the effort made by those who have made it possible, and by those who have pressured with our not to modify this Royal Decree-Law, making it much better. However, and in accordance with our political position and despite the improvements, we cannot talk about a complete agreement since there are important gaps to close, such as the question of subrogation - which is not in the actual decree-law - which makes the conflict between the employer and the workers and the notice of strike remain in effect right now, and that commitments such as the prevalence of the port agreement are really a fact to be contrasted and that must be shielded. We'll see about that. That is why we remain in the no, as a measure to continue the pressure on the Government to exercise government, and its ministers, especially those in Fomento, do not look so much like a social agent more aligned with the employer, as it appeared on 16 March and as it has been during this process, for I remind you that in three years we could have reached today's decree much more quickly, and as we have already denounced in our previous speech. It must also be understood that, being a party that we are in for the immediate repeal of the two labour reforms, we cannot accept that this first recognition of the failure of this labour reform, as we understand it, this fiasco can be solved by a declaration of intentions, praiseworthy, above all by a final change in forms, but insufficient to guarantee its rectification and enlargement for all the other groups of workers who continue to suffer the breakdown of agreements, company agreements above those of sectors or groups in their meats. We believe that we need to reflect on this issue and on many other sectors that suffer as much or more than the estiva sectors. Today you have taken a first step, the first public recognition that your entire work model was not so beautiful, and that Republican Left had and has reason to demand its repeal. I would like to say, in short, because I am running out of time, that we will give the yes, but we will give it when we have on the workers their definitive OK. Because the Republicans are one, only one more of the voices that we are next to the workers. When they give us the definitive OK here we will be, whatever it takes, once again. For all this, and to conclude, a dedication: the unions do serve and the parties faithful to the working class also. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u19	Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 16 March, the Royal Decree-Law 4/2017 for the reform of the greenhouse was presented for validation by this House. This reform was, as everyone knows, determined by a judgment of the Court of Justice of December 2014, condemning the Kingdom of Spain for failing to comply with Article 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union. This sentence did not come by surprise, it was the culmination of a path initiated by Europe in 2011, warning that the Ports Act that had just been passed - its law, ladies and gentlemen - was not in conformity with that article 49, on freedom of establishment. That is to say, the Commission gives a first warning in November 2011, and nothing happens; in October 2012 it delivers an opinion, and nothing happens; in December 2014 Spain is firmly condemned, and nothing happens either. All this, by the way, with an absolute majority. That's right, it's March 2017 and all the rushes are unleashed. When the first decree is presented, we are told that that is what there is and that there is no room for action, and at that time we said that if we had had to wait so long - since 2011, or at least since 2014 - it was worth waiting a little longer to try to reach a greater social consensus, and also a parliamentary agreement, because the first decree was born dead, since it lacked such parliamentary support and social support among the interveners. That is why in Citizens we said that we would not give our support to the decree; we said to the Government: sit down, negotiate, and we were severely criticized for it. Let us remember that what the first decree provided for were general redundancies and compensations from the general budgets of the State, because what was overlooked was something essential, and that is that here we are not facing the conversion of a mine that is going to close, with the consequent loss of jobs, but rather a sector in which we want employment to grow. In that sense, reform was not only necessary because of the fine, it is not only necessary because we are in Europe and we respect its rules, it is especially necessary because we have to be able to compete in order to grow. Our neighbors are not idle - as Tanger Med or Sines show - and neither can we be. That was why the decree should seek to achieve three objectives. Firstly, as the activity continues, measures must be taken to ensure continuity of employment; secondly, measures must be taken to improve port productivity, and thirdly, older workers must be treated with particular regard. The government finally got involved, a mediator was appointed who tried to approach positions - the positions really got closer - and the whole path travelled in the negotiations - all these milestones - have been incorporated in the form of an appendix to this new Royal Decree-Law 8/2017 that is now being presented, and which focuses on the objectives that we considered fundamental: the maintenance of employment and the improvement of productivity. We understand that entrepreneurs want more, and we understand that the stoves want more; it is normal for everyone to try to defend their interests, and it is also normal for a negotiation as complicated as this to not fully satisfy any, but no one who reads both decrees - the 4/2017 and the 8/2017 - can claim that there have been no changes and improvements. Even the Member who preceded me in the use of the floor, wearing a t-shirt, has acknowledged it: there have been obvious improvements. [[Mr. Salvador i Duch pats himself on the cheek with his hand]] The text of the new decree not only allows us to comply with Europe, it not only allows us to comply with the freedom of establishment, but also contains clear progress in the preservation of jobs and in the improvement of productivity that the former did not collect. As you know in the new decree, the decree that is now being presented expressly provides for the proposal for mediation to be developed by another royal decree with the aim - it says expressly - of maintaining the employment of the current workers, through agreements between employers and trade unions of the estua - let us remember that the new decree incorporates a new provision regarding the priority of the port agreement - to improve the organization and productivity in the sector of the estua, as well as to establish a system of aid for older workers. The mediation proposal is included at the end of the royal decree, and will have to build on that future regulatory development mandated by law. Ladies and gentlemen, the time that has elapsed has shown that there is room, but now it is about not spoiling everything that has been achieved. It is the responsibility of businesses, trade unions and the Government, which must proceed to regulatory development, to achieve it and in Citizens we offer ourselves to cooperate loyally in this endeavour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u21	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Alonso Cantorné has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u22	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Greetings to the companions of the summer. [[Rumors]] It's been two months...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u23	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u24	... since this Chamber sent them to the corner to think so that they would accept what the unions and the employers were about to sign. It seems to have been of little use to them, since for weeks the contacts with the trade unions have been frozen. The example, without going further, is in the regulation that derives from the royal decree-law that until yesterday was not public. They, the unions and the employer, reached an agreement and now you, instead of bringing that agreement to us, come to us with a refrain from the previous royal decree-law; that, yes, adapted with the proposals of the mediator. The question of subrogation, which is basically the agreement reached by employers and trade unions, is something that the President of the European Parliament's Committee on Transport asked for, and is in Article 44 of our Workers' Statute. On this point, there was nothing in the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which raised no objection to this approach. I don't understand why you don't include him. What's the problem? It is curious when it is not ridiculous for the mediator to draw up a text different from the pact that existed between employers and workers. How is it possible to mediate when an agreement has already been reached? It's about before, not after. This government is too accustomed to surprises, although it usually uses SMS to communicate them and not to a person of prestige like Mr Marcos Peña. Again, the Government is wrong. He doesn't respect what was agreed between the parties; he seems to be saying to them: you have been good, but I didn't care what you said. The real objective of sitting down to negotiate was another; the focus was in this House, pointing here, in front, at the rostrum, and not at the union and employers' table. You wanted to stage a dialogue to give the necessary alibi for a change of vote from your orange partners, and exchange chromes in the operation blanket with the PDECAT for your announced abstention. They were only pursuing the votes they needed to pass the royal decree-law. I will not stop to talk about either Citizens or the PNV or the PDECAT; some of the reasons will have had to cost. These groups have been pressured to exhaust Anfac, the Spanish Association of Automobile and Truck Manufacturers, to give their OK. The problem is you, who have the responsibility of government and are not interested in exercising... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u25	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u26	Thank you, Madam President. They are not interested in exercising a protective state, defending citizens against the wildest market. You simply pretend to be the hands and destiny of the executioner arm of the plot so that a few do business; if any crumbs fall from three to four, welcome be. A model change in the stove will allow Noatum, as well as the rest of the dealers, to improve their performance accounts and thus revalue JP Morgan's assets with a view to a possible sale, a sale that in July could materialize in Cosco, the great Chinese state conglomerate of interoceanic traffic. Be honest, say what you really want: to fire more than 6000 workers in three years' time, by the way, and within comfortable deadlines, 75, 50 and 25 %. That companies do not suffer, calmly, that we will pay them 120 million in compensation plus the retirement aid provided for in the regulation presented yesterday. After having destroyed with all the social and wage rights won during these years by the summer they will want to re-hire them, yes, because the figures show that they are good professionals. The forecasts of entry and demand of the traffics, according to the words of Mr Llorca, president of the public entity Ports of the State, are of increase, both in the exports and in the imports by sea. In 2017 the port traffic will reach 530 million tons, a new historical record, that is, 4,1 % increase. For its part the turnover of the consolidated harbour system will amount to 1079 million euros, and revenues for occupancy rates - a very relevant indicator of the private investments in the ports - that will also grow up to 263 million euros, that is to say 2,3%, exceeding the revenues of the year 2016. The quality index of the harbour infrastructures in our country, according to the World Economic Forum of Davos, gives Spain a score of 5.7 out of 7 of the highest in the world and Europe, above Japan, Germany, France and Italy, below, that is, the Netherlands and Belgium, typical port countries, and therefore also above the data for the OECD countries, which have a score in port infrastructures of 5.1 and that despite the anguish with which during these months the family of the estua has lived. A real decree-law without dialogue - with us, for example, has not spoken - that surrounds our country's potential logistic platform by engaging it in conflict. They want more, they are insatiable, they want the stovekeepers to become carriers, they will want the workers of the stove again, but in their conditions, without agreements, without joining trade unions - what the oldest thing must be to organize to defend the rights of the workers - and that these new contracts are like 15% of the new contracts in Spain, which despite receiving a wage still are poor. That is what they really want, that the income from work be transferred to capital. We wonder, what will happen to potential workers? One in three workers on the stove is eventual, who do not have the hundred hands at present. What will happen to the stowers that ship the cars and that now their days do not count as stove? When it is published in the BOE this royal decree will remain in a legal limbo, and there will be no need for strikes to leave the workers' ports empty if this problem is not solved. In the end, what they are looking for with this decree to liberalize the greenhouse is not, I'm sorry, a docking, it's a robbery. Let's do some fiction, finally. Would any of your ladies and gentlemen be surprised that, in a while, conversations recorded by a judge will spread, and that the esteemed one by all of us Civil Guard - as long as it is not logically the UCO - will end up demonstrating what United We Can-In Comú Ponde-In Marea denounces from this rostrum? You know what, Mr. De la Serna? I had the opportunity to present a new royal decree-law that would be a victory for all, in which the groups and the world of the greenhouse felt at ease. It could have done so but it has not; it has preferred to content those who are always, to those who overwhelm the interests of the citizenry. We don't have another one left - and it tastes bad to me, because I like it -: you have to throw them out, I'm sorry. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] You are. [[Addressing the Guest Tribune]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u27	Thank you. Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u28	Thank you, President. Today we come back here, two months after the debate on the first decree of the greenhouse, to discuss the same thing. It is true that the debate has been radically different, it has been a much more moderate debate. I am not saying that it will be so until the end, because there is still the spokesman of the PP and knowing his interventions will surely provoke something to some of the groups that we are here. I was surprised by the Minister's intervention, I will admit it. Today he has never named the word fine. [[Minister of Development De la Serna Hernáiz: Once]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u29	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u30	Well, once the minister tells me. He's only named the word fine once. In the previous plenary I proposed a game and I think he has taken note and said: let me see if they will make me play again and I will have a problem. It is true that the decree has changed and improved - we believe - but it does not give satisfaction to something that seems essential to us. We've put in several conditions. One was that he had to comply with the European judgment. In this debate and in the previous one, it has been suggested that we did not want to comply with the European judgment, and that is not the case. We have always said that we had to comply with it, but also that there are different ways of doing so, and the minister, bringing in a new decree that has changed, shows that what we were saying was true. Now, there's something I'm worried about. The minister is going to sleep well today, and I'm glad. The minister is going to sleep well because he had only one goal: to approve the decree of the greenhouse. My concern is how the workers will sleep, who are not guaranteed the job. This decree does not guarantee the jobs of the workers, and it is essential, is a mandatory condition to give the approval to this decree. [[Applauds]] That's why we're going to vote no, like we did last time. But not only are the workers going to sleep badly, the employer too, because this generates a conflict in the ports, and the minister knows it. What worries me is that it seems that the minister, validated the decree, gives him the same thing that comes forward. We, as the Socialist Party that defends the workers, are concerned about their jobs, but also what can happen in the Spanish ports and in the Spanish economy, because many workers in many sectors can see their conditions damaged from the conflicts in the ports, and had the possibility to prevent that from happening. You know I had a chance to avoid it. I am surprised that the minister talks to the workers through other parties - it has been sought intermediary - and that he has appointed the mediator on several occasions. As far as I know, in a labour mediation the mediator has a role when there is no agreement between the parties. Here were three parts: government, unions and employers, and we want to acknowledge the work done by the employers and the effort made by the unions. We thank the workers, who have made an effort to be able to solve the problem, and we congratulate the employer because he has also made an effort, but we will not congratulate the minister because he has made no effort. He has made no effort to reach an agreement with them. He did not raise his phone at any time to ask them how their negotiations were going, whether they needed something from the Government or whether it had to be shaped - as he promised - through a regulation. Sincerely, Minister, you have not done the right thing, you have not solved the problem definitively. There is still a way to go, and unfortunately they will have to go alone, without the support of their Government, trade unions and employers. There's something else we're worried about. This has been a sign of how the Minister of Development behaves when there is a labour dispute, and we have seen that he has no political waist. We have found that he has no capacity to negotiate with the parties; we have found that he has no capacity to listen to the workers; we have found that he has no capacity to listen to the employer, and that worries us because there are many issues that are still pending and many conflicts that are coming. [[Applauds]] We have the subject of the workers of Ferrovial pending. The services of Renfe and AVE are suffering the consequences of the inaction of the Government and the Minister of Development, and seeing how he has behaved on this occasion we have no hope of resolving it. We ask him to put himself to work, to sit down and to ask Ferrovial to comply with the workers, because he is not doing so and we must guarantee the conditions to which they have committed themselves. But it is not the only thing the Minister has in his hands. Lot 22 of AENA, which is taken out by a public company cut apart to remove force from the workers. That's not the way, Minister. Public contracts cannot be made to make workers' conditions worse.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u31	Your Honor, I'm calling you to the point.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u32	I will try to reflect what can happen from now on with the attitude of the Government, if it is the same as that of the greenhouse. Remove lot 22 from Barcelona airport, as the only thing that will generate is a conflict. I will end the way we started the debate, the way we did the other debate. We believe in agreement, consensus and that workers and employers can and should be heard. We believe that the public and the institutions have an obligation to mediate to reach an agreement, and I believe that it is possible. I'm worried about the PP government. I have always been concerned, but now I am much more concerned about the Minister of Development's attitude to labour conflicts. What's going to happen to the taxi drivers' conflict? The minister does nothing. What will happen to social dumping in the transport sector when there is a minister who has no capacity to dialogue? What will happen to so many sectors that from now on will be affected by many labour and social conflicts? The employers and trade unions have shown themselves to be up to the task, but I sincerely believe that the government has not shown itself up to the task and that must be our concern. We have to change the way we do politics. It's very simple. I spoke almost daily, both with employers and with trade unions; they are people you can talk to and negotiate with; they are people who have thought from the first moment that we had to find a solution to the conflict. The truth is that at first the Government tried to show that the group of workers of the estuave was privileged. I will admit that they were in part privileged, because they had work and reasonable working conditions, and in the People's Party country there are very few workers who have reasonable working conditions and who are guaranteed, as we have seen at the end of this crisis. This is the model of the People's Party and has proved it with the management of the greenhouse. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u33	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Barrachina Ros has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Ministers, and thank you to the employers and workers of the summer. I'll start at the end. The Socialist spokesman says we haven't talked about the fines. I'm going to sum it up, even though we thought they'd understood. What has happened in these fifty-four days since Parliament imposed itself on us is not that we have accumulated a million... [[A guest in the public gallery stands up and shouts: The ports are not sold!- Rumors.-Applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea heading towards the public gallery.-Protests from the Popular Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u35	Go on, Mr. Barrachina.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u36	Thank you, Madam President. We have accumulated an additional EUR 1 480 000 that will be paid by all Spaniards, because, as all Members heard from the European Commissioner, she said here that the first sanction we had, which now amounts to EUR 24 400 000, would be withdrawn if that royal decree were adopted. Since then we no longer have any guarantees, and that sentence is most likely to fall soon: EUR 24 400 000. I trust that those who won 175 noes and who are going to condemn the Spaniards to pay 24 400 000 euros will organize a crowdfunding of these famous ones that Pablo Iglesias and Mr Pedro Sánchez usually do to collect, and prevent their mistakes from being paid by the Spaniards. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u37	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u38	We trusted and hoped that the PSOE would get off the mountain. What are the most expensive primary elections for the Spaniards, in terms of estuba agreement and in budgetary terms! But no, they haven't come down from the mountain. We were waiting for this because this law is yours, the law that declares illegal the High Court of Justice of the European Union, but for the feeling that I have had here today after listening to the spokespersons the court has not sent us a sentence, but has sent us a congratulations saying: follow this way, that the daily fine will now be 134 000 euros. We were hoping they'd get off the mountain, but no. They haven't come down from the mountain. The PSOE is still on the mountain; moreover, they have risen to the trees, and the socialist of the fourteenth branch of the tree that is on the mountain is bent on beating the socialist of the fifteenth branch. [[Laughs and applause.-Protests]] They are surrounded by trees and without the ability of Spain to have a reasonable left. [[Rumors]] Two things have happened, first, we owe a million and a half more... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u39	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u40	...and second, the left has demonstrated its inability to articulate an alternative. They have had full legislative capacity during these two months and have presented nothing. Doesn't it seem strange to the workers on the stove that those who promise them everything then don't present anything, not a single writing, nothing in two months? [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] They have had time in these two months to table six thousand amendments, committees of inquiry at once, to announce even a motion of censure; they have dug up Franco but they have not found a minute to write anything about the amendment, nothing, zero. [[Rumors-Applause]] The Left has shown in this House that it only united their grudge, that is no, by paralysing the activity of this country and, of course, the People's Party responds to general interests. I would like to thank you for your support for the Union of the Navarro People, the Asturias Forum, the Basque Group, Citizens and the PDECAT - I welcome your return to economic freedom - and I thank you for saving Spain additional fines. Anyone who tells them that after a European conviction nothing is going to change, lies to them, deceives them, so they have not presented anything. [[Words are spoken that are not perceived in the public gallery.- Rumours and protests.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, returned to the public gallery]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u41	One second, Mr. Barrachina. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the services of the House to maintain order in the rostrums in accordance with Rule 107. [[A guest from the public gallery: We're leaving! Rumors and protests.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States We can-In Comú Ponde-In Marea, back to the public gallery]] Keep order in the rostrum. Mr. Barrachina.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u42	Those who say that after a socialist law that violates the treaties of the Union that the Socialist Group signed in its day, nothing is going to happen, deceives the workers and deceives the entrepreneurs. Of course yes, of course it is natural for companies to be free to hire, of course it is desirable and we will try to ensure that all, one hundred percent of workers with their full wages remain, because the greenhouse sector has worked and if it has, it is because workers and entrepreneurs have done well. However, Spain, which is the nation that creates the most employment in Europe, which receives 75 million visitors, deserves to do so especially, and this condemnation is an opportunity; an opportunity for the first woman to be hired in Algeciras, an opportunity for her to be ordered... [[Rumors]] [[A guest from the public gallery: Shut up now, man, shut up now!- Rumors.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, back to the public gallery]] It is an opportunity for ships not to leave and be born, in front of our main port of Algeciras, Tanger Med, in just ten years. In addition, they will double our capacity for factories such as Renault, which employ 35 000 workers. I would like those companies to be in the region that is most unemployed in the European Union after thirty years of socialist government, I would like them to be in Andalusia. [[Applauds]] Therefore, my group intends that this modernization, which begins now, should count on one hundred percent, with all, with all the workers, who are recognized all their work, who are validated all the qualifications, who will be assisted if necessary with pre-retirement, with all the... [[A guest from the public gallery: Shut up now, man, that's all right!-Another guest from the public gallery: Go now, man!- Rumors and protests-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, back to the public gallery]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u44	Is it not strange to you that those who are jealous of you are the same ones who have decided to vote against free trade with the United States, with Canada? [[Several Members: Go now!- Rumors and protests.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States We can-In Comú Ponde-En Marea, the Group of the Republican Left and several Members of the Joint Group]] The same, exactly the same ones that are against the free market are those who believe that they will circulate more goods through the Spanish ports.Will the Spanish ports work better every day? [[Rumors and Protests]] The Spanish ports will work better each day with freedom and with the ability to contract. [[Rumors and protests in the public gallery.-The public gallery is being evicted and, as they leave, some guests raise their fists.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, the Group of Republican Left and several of the Joint Group, standing and returning to the public gallery, some with their fists raised]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u45	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u46	If you'll let me, I'll try to conclude, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. And I also remind you that the Rules of Procedure, from the first to the last, are binding on everyone, on the President and on all the members of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, when the rostrum is being evicted, it is in compliance with the Rules of Procedure. Go on, Mr. Barrachina.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u48	I conclude, Madam President. The higher you raise your fist, along with the workers of the greenhouse, the farther away from the ground, the less favor you do them. To radicalise this proposal, to pretend and try to get Spain to stop, something that is costing us millions of euros, does a general damage. To you, it is true, that everything that feeds the socialist revolution is good for you... [[Several Members of Parliament: Go now!- Rumors and protests.- Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea make gestures calling for calm.-Mrs. Montero Gil: Peace!]] I conclude by reiterating them, if they leave me... [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u49	One second, Mr. Barrachina. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the sitting, I am going to review the Journal of Sessions, I am going to see all the voices that have been heard in this sitting, thanks to the stenographers, and then I will call on your ladies and gentlemen to withdraw them from the Journal of Sessions, because up to four or five of the words I have heard here in the rostrum seem to me to go against the decorum of the House and the decorum of your ladies and gentlemen. So, ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. Finish now, Mr. Barrachina.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u50	I conclude, Madam President. He said that all that is feeding the socialist revolution is good for you, even though feeding is contradictory to socialist revolution. They're using the workers unfairly.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u51	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u52	I conclude, Madam President. Spain is a country that must, like this Parliament, be equal to its citizens, avoiding European sanctions that all Spaniards will pay...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u53	Mr. Barrachina.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u54	...and not you. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u55	Thank you very much. The vote will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. The vote will begin. We begin with the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 8/2017 of 12 May, amending the regime of workers for the provision of the port service of handling of goods, giving effect to the Judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 11 December 2014 in Case C-576/13 [[infringement procedure 2009/4052]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 345 plus 2 telematics votes, 347; 173 plus 1 telematics vote, 174; 164 plus 1 telematics vote, 165; abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u56	As a result, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. [[Applauds]] The Royal Decree-Law has been requested to be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 344 plus 2 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 81 plus 1 telematics vote, 82; against, 172 plus 1 telematics vote, 173; abstentions, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-18-CD170518.u57	Consequently, it will not be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. The meeting rose. It was one and fifty minutes in the afternoon. [[*******page with picture **********]]
