ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. In accordance with rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure, and as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the exclusion from the agenda of this sitting of item 27, corresponding to the urgent appeal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Presidency for Territorial Administrations on the instructions which, as coordinator of the Government, ordered to transmit to the State Security Forces and Bodies and which gave rise to the police charges produced last October 1st in Catalonia, which left a balance of hundreds of wounded. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The exclusion of the reference point is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u2	We shall now begin with the first item on the agenda on the debate on the proposal for a law of the Basque Parliament establishing a compensation fund for asbestos victims. We therefore welcome three representatives of the Basque Parliament who make up the delegation that is going to defend the proposal, and we also welcome the delegation of the Basque Parliament and the President, who are going to accompany us. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Jon Aiartza Zallo of the PNV Parliamentary Group has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u3	Thank you, President. Pick up where we are. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. From the 1960s to the 1980s, asbestos was produced and marketed massively. Not only was it a product whose manufacture and sale was permitted by law, but it was practically a magical product; it was a magnificent insulation, flame retardant, resistant and malleable. The consequences that their exposure could produce, their toxicity, were not known at first. The risk of its toxicity occurs when handling asbestos, so that it can be released to the environment. Your fibers can be inhaled and deposited inside the body. The body is unable to remove that fiber and an evolution will occur during the period of latency towards the disease. There are different types of injuries, some not fatal, but severe; others many mortals, such as mesothelioma, which necessarily derives from an exposure to asbestos, so we must look for that exposure in the working life of the person affected. Since the use of asbestos has been officially prohibited in the European Union in 2005, the only activity permitted is its withdrawal, which must be carried out by specifically authorised and registered companies. Despite the ban, it can continue to damage health, as there is still a great deal of material that contains it. The number of people affected is really high and the estimate tells us that they will continue to increase until the 1930s. Undoubtedly, a change in reality is needed in a very short period of time - from a miracle product used massively to an extremely toxic product, with thousands of people sick or latency -, a drastic change in the needs of those affected, their families, the people in latent state, of the whole society ultimately, that needs answers from the institutions. In short, we can essentially ask ourselves two questions: What can be done in the field of asbestos and what is actually being done. Exposure prevention can be done, health surveillance can be done, and compensation can also be made for those affected and affected. But what actions are being taken in these areas? In the prevention of exposure, in broad terms, illegal withdrawals and uncontrolled discharges are being avoided. In health surveillance, the information, health surveillance systems of exposed workers are being connected, with information on their clinical history as citizens, leading to a more systematic knowledge of possible harm. What about compensation? In this regard, asbestos is particularly complex. Firstly, the latency time between exposure and onset of the disease is extraordinarily long; secondly, a relatively high number of cases, around 20%, occur in people who have not been professionally exposed to asbestos, the cause of exposure being environmental pollution which in many cases does not have a defined culprit; thirdly, the number of people affected is very high. Therefore, in the case of those affected by asbestos, the procedures for the valuation and compensation of compensation systems are often inoperative, so that those affected are obliged to resort to the courts to obtain the redress to which they consider they are entitled. They only have to fight for damages against the company as the only way of redress: in some cases there is no company to claim; in others, many affected fail to survive the long judicial process. That is why most of the States in our environment that have had the same levels of asbestos use and the same harmful impact on people have set up specific compensation funds to compensate asbestos victims. The presentation in the Basque Parliament was set up in order to study the possible creation of a fund of these characteristics; its main conclusion is clear: the need for the creation in the State of this compensation fund. It is fair to respond to this need. We therefore call for the adoption of this proposal for a law. Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u4	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mrs Eba Blanco de Angulo on behalf of the EH Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u5	Pick it up on. Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, I would like to welcome the representation of asbestos victims' associations from different autonomous communities present here, and allow me to address in particular the Association of Victims of the Amianto de Euskadi. [[Addressing the public gallery]] In addition to saluting them, it is fair to thank them for the work and support they have done over these eight years to all the parliamentary groups in the Basque House. For our part, thanks to the work in common, today we can say that in a unanimous way we have reached the end of this long road, a path that we hope you will resume today to enable the creation of the fund of compensation of victims of asbestos, victims who today do not receive any compensation, recognition or response from the Administration; victims who in most cases are helpless in the face of an extremely serious problem, arising and without any possibility of complaint; people who start a long judicial process that on many occasions cannot even be completed because they lose the other battle, that of the fight against their disease. It should be remembered that, despite the fact that twelve years ago the European Union banned the use of asbestos, this material has been used massively for three decades, and to this day it can continue to damage health because there is still a great deal of material that contains it; that is, there are companies that do not know that they work with asbestos. That's why it's so complicated to determine how many people have been exposed to asbestos or how long they've been exposed to asbestos. And although we cannot talk about a number of affected or affected in exact figures, we do have some estimates that are of course to take into account. Between 1994 and 2008, the number of people killed by pulmonary mesothelioma in the Spanish State amounted to almost 4000 people. In the same period of time only in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa the deceased amounted to 305. On the other hand, according to recent studies, we could say that 700 new cases of mesothelioma are to be diagnosed annually, and to this should be added the cases of asbestososis or lung cancer that will have a direct relation to exposure to asbestos, not to mention the victims affected by mild diseases, which do not cease to be victims. Moreover, we cannot lose sight of the fact that the number of people diagnosed will increase until at least 2023, which is when the latency period is estimated to end. It is also important to note that approximately one third of the victims are women, either because they have been exposed to asbestos in the workplace or because they have been affected by non-working causes, such as environmental or domestic exposure. It is therefore necessary to take into account all victims, those who have a direct relationship with the workplace and also those who do not. We could refer, for example, to all those women who have been ill because they had contact with work clothes containing asbestos fibres, and it is that, if it is estimated that approximately 20% of mesotheliomas in men are not attributable to work exposure, this percentage is staggeringly up to 75% or 80% in the case of women. That is why, from the Basque Parliament, we want to ask you two fundamental questions: firstly, to take into account the legislative proposal that we have come to present to you today because, among other things, there is a need for this compensation fund to be set up at state level, since it is shown that it is an issue that exceeds the autonomous limits; and secondly, to work with the political responsibility that this matter deserves and to do so quickly so that the victims of asbestos can be compensated as soon as possible, but also, and not less importantly, so that all of them can somehow feel comforted. Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u6	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mrs Gloria Sánchez Martín on behalf of the Basque Socialists and Mr Euskadiko Ezquerra.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u7	President, it is up to me to close this defence, which we make up a number of representatives of the Basque Parliament representing all the parliamentary groups that make up it, and I would like to emphasise two things that we want this House to take into account in order to allow it to proceed: the workers concerned and those who can still be affected in the future and the value of the agreement. My first reference is to those workers and their families who have been clamoring for a solution that avoids them from the judicial calvary that means having to lose part of their lives, of which they are left, in that maze and that even their battle must be followed by their relatives when they die, and it is not fair. It is not fair that your right to health has not been protected in the past, it is not fair that you have to defend it now before the courts, nor do we think it is fair for companies that, after the existence of a legal framework that allowed it in their day, over the years have to face up to these compensations. For both, but especially for those affected, the creation of the compensation fund will not mean that they are restored to their health, but that the lost right is compensated for years. It's not about blaming past responsibilities. The lack of knowledge about the actual effects of asbestos was general in Europe, but other countries had already responded to those affected, such as France, Belgium and the Netherlands. However, in Spain we still do not create the compensation fund for asbestos victims after seventeen years. We believe that its creation is necessary and we want all the efforts made by the Basque Parliament not to be sterile. Two legislatures ago, in the Basque Parliament we decided to start a rigorous work. I'm sure it's taken these people a long time, but it's been very rigorous. We prepared the final report of the presentation and later this bill was prepared using the French FIVA model as a reference because we consider that the most complete model of the three mentioned above was this. In addition, it was considered in the submission agreement that this compensation fund had to have a national level and not an autonomous community, because in Euskadi we could not create that fund for the reasons that I will then explain, but from Euskadi we could promote it, as we are doing today, and it was also necessary to do so and from a public response, because the public is our health system. The problem is that it is not worth having the disease, but it has to be shown that asbestos has been worked, and many companies do not provide documentation or evidence for it or have disappeared. Those affected face the difficulty of demonstrating the exposure and in which company or companies it actually occurred. In addition, given the period of latency, the vast majority of cases are diagnosed when there is no longer a working relationship or are retired, so those affected will have to go directly to Social Security. Another problem is the time limits for carrying out these damages actions, which are very short, of one year. This fund will provide an offer of equal compensation for all victims, which, if accepted by the victims concerned, would entail, as in other countries, the waiver of ongoing legal proceedings. All these difficulties justify the request of the asbestos compensation fund at the state level. That is where I want to draw attention to the second idea that I have taken from the very beginning: the value of the agreement between different people to guarantee the rights of all. The project we bring you has been worked out by all the groups and supported by all of them; it is unanimous. We live turbulent times for dialogue and agreement, we live times of questioning of politics. I ask you to take into account the value of what we propose to you. For our part, we want these workers and their families to feel that their demands are finally met, that we have listened to them in Euskadi, that we have sought solutions, that we want them to come true where it is possible to do so and that their struggle is useful for other workers and other families in the rest of Spain who have the same just demand. This is the answer that is in the hands of this Congress of Deputies to offer today. That is why I call for the adoption of this proposal for a law and for the victims to continue to be taken into account in the next procedure. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u8	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. Asbestos was considered the miraculous mineral of the twentieth century, being widely used for its flame retardant qualities but not knowing that exposure to this material could lead to disease and death. The bill put forward by the Basque Parliament will be supported by the Forum to make it a reality as soon as possible a fund for the compensation of asbestos victims. We are faced with a path that provides greater protection to those affected by diseases related to contact with this material used in constructions, which, although since 2002 has been prohibited from its use in any form and by any application, there is a high percentage of people who lived directly with it and who are at risk of contracting some serious diseases such as asbestososis, the most common, respiratory restriction fibrosis and mesothelioma. We are talking, in short, about an agent classified as first-class carcinogen. Although the Ministry of Health has recognized this disease as a professional, the reality is that the vast majority of victims are treated as if they were a common disease, which severely conditions the family economy itself, and hence the importance of creating a compensation fund to compensate the victims, help their families and also serve to avoid the sad, complex and often - depending on the court's interpretation - contradictory judicial periplo to which the people who fight for recognition as a professional disease are avowed. At present, the protective action of the State with regard to workers suffering from occupational diseases caused by asbestos is guaranteed through the social security benefits, provided that certain requirements are met, but the reading of the Pivistaa, an integral programme for monitoring the health of workers exposed to asbestos, and the knowledge accredited by studies and reports of a worrying evidence, which is manifested over many years, justify the adoption of equitable measures such as the creation of the fund proposed here. This bill also anticipates the expected increase in asbestos-related diseases because, despite the ban on their use, the major problem, as has just been recalled, is the long period of latency of the tumor: an average of 40 years from exposure to this mineral substance to the diagnosis of the disease, and a significant peak of incidence is expected in Europe from 2020 onwards. As I pointed out at the outset, the Forum vote will be favourable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u10	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group too, I have the floor, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u11	Pick it up on. In the short time I have wanted to welcome, first of all, the representation of the Basque Parliament and to acknowledge the work that you have done in recent years in collaboration, with the associations present here and already mentioned, until you come to this proposal that comes to Congress, which, of course, we will support and that it should be remembered that it was adopted unanimously two years ago. I would also like to regret the veto which at first instance suffered this initiative in this Congress and which, fortunately, we hope today will be left behind to start the debate leading to the adoption of a fund for the compensation of asbestos victims. As has already been said here, these are victims who are involved in lengthy legal proceedings and who, in the case of those who have worked in contact with asbestos, may receive a favourable judgment, but in the case of contacts produced outside the workplace, even that. They are all victims who continue to appear, even though it is no longer a preventive problem, because asbestos-related diseases come out over the years and will continue to do so. This means that when the disease manifests itself, in many cases the companies where they worked have disappeared or that as they worked in more than one of them it is difficult to know where they have been contaminated, to say the least, which means that the judicial process is impossible for them. Both in these cases and on the understanding that under no circumstances should the persons concerned have to defend their rights through the courts in a systematic way, because they are not offered an alternative, in Euskal Herria Bildu we share the need for the creation of this compensation fund, for it to be similar to that which exists in other countries of the European Union, for the full allocation case to be taken into account and for the participation in its financing of the companies which produced and used asbestos. That is why, as I have already said, we will support the work done by the Basque Parliament and, for the victims of asbestos, what we hope is that we will work diligently and without delay to achieve as soon as possible the establishment of the compensation fund and, therefore, that the suffering they suffer and that many will still have to suffer is somehow restored. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u12	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group too, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all on behalf of Compromis, I would like to thank the delegation of the Basque Parliament for the proposal for a law that they have brought us and for the defence they have made of it, and I would also like to thank the representatives of the victims' associations who are here today with us. [[Addressing the public gallery]] To create a compensation fund for asbestos victims is to recognize a historical claim: the right to compensation for damage to persons who have suffered a disease for professional reasons or simply because they are exposed, by the neighbourhood, to the consequences of asbestos. This exposure has been a serious public health problem, as has been said, malignant pleural mesothelioma - this cancer that is of extreme mortality - which has to a large extent a origin associated with exposure to asbestos, since 85% of the cases are related to asbestos. As has also been indicated, due to the excessive time it takes for this cancer to manifest, the deaths that are now taking place - and for a long time it will continue to be so - are in many cases due to people who worked with this material decades ago in foundry industries, in naval industries, in shipyards in localities such as Ferrol, Oviedo, Cartagena, Basque Country and Valencia. In the Valencian case the association that we have has counted from 2009 until today more than seventy and one died from ailments resulting from exposure to asbestos, but the affected could be many more, could be as many as employed in the Naval Union of Levante, in the shipyards. When it comes to asbestos, I can't help but say that we're not just talking about numbers, we're talking about people. I come from the port district of Valencia, a large district in which many people live who worked in shipyards and, unfortunately, the situation described by the proponents of the initiative is a real situation. We still see many people who are suffering from diseases, who are struggling in the association to make someone pay attention to their sufferings and their claims; we knew many people who have already died and, of course, we are facing a problem that we hope will be faced with with with this proposal. Compromís understands that the creation of a compensation fund for victims at the state level in addition to addressing the need for economic reparation, avoids the additional suffering resulting from judicial torture that victims and their families experience during the process for the recognition of their situation. They will therefore count on the support of Compromís and we hope that this proposal will come forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u14	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u15	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Since it cannot be otherwise, I must first of all thank the representatives of the Basque Parliament - so that we can also thank the rest of your House on our behalf - for bringing us this legislative initiative here today. Secondly, all associations, both Basque and State, of asbestos victims and trade unions that have also participated in its elaboration, as well as the members of Osalan and the National Social Security Institute who have also participated as specialists in its elaboration. This is an initiative that the House will not only support, but will have to do so because it is, above all, a social necessity. I am not going to extend so much to the facts that have already been reported by the Basque parliamentarians, but above all to the justification of the need for a fund like this. Not so much in the diseases that have already been pointed out that can occur as a result of exposure to asbestos, but above all in the characteristics that must have a fund such as that proposed here today that what is intended is to meet a social need, which has long been neglected as a result not of the non-application of regulations, but of the lack of awareness of the warnings that already existed in both the scientific and legal fields. Apart from the activities that already exist in order to prohibit the use of asbestos in different production processes, and apart from the preventive measures that are being carried out in the workplace, the sad reality is that, in the case of asbestos and the rest of asbestos-related diseases, we have verified year after year that there are a considerable number of diagnoses of asbestos-related diseases. In addition, these diagnoses will be produced at a time when their victims will be difficult to access a type of reaction, i.e. at the pre-retirement or already in retirement. Even their relatives at the time of their death will find that the circumstances that have occurred are due to exposure to a particular element, that they should not have endured and that, however, they did so and produced terrible consequences for their health. This makes the provision of this fund a social and urgent justice challenge. He said a phrase from La Dorotea de Lope de Vega: 'It is not well that comes late, because so much can be the delay that hope becomes despair'. That is also true of the background that we are looking at here. That is why my intervention is going to go basically to the concreteness of those characters that I believe should have the background and not so much to the causes that have motivated it. That's the point. The proposal for a law does so in a tremendously successful way, let me tell you this, without prejudice to the fact that there are later others that can be debated in the relevant committee and that must be agreed, as the representative of the Basque Parliament said. I will start with something that I understand is important in order to justify the creation of this fund, which is about its recipients, the accuracy of the target assumptions and the diseases whose findings are going to be associated with the existence of this fund and another important issue, which is funding. The Basque Parliament's own opinion tells us that, from a comparative point of view, there are few assumptions on which this issue is admitted and there are also different reactions that the three funds that are known cover different areas of coverage for this type of funding. The French, Belgian and Dutch create care funds linked to the objective fact of the existence of a specific pathology, but they either care for different groups or they care for different amounts or with different characteristics. However, the substance proposed in this bill does address this primary issue, i.e. the definition of the existence of that substance linked to the objective fact of the existence of that particular pathology. It should therefore be pointed out that the debate must first of all concern the recipients of the fund, the people who may suffer from ailments that allow access to the compensation fund, since they include not only workers who have had permanent or occasional contact with asbestos, but also those who, for family or environmental reasons, have been able to have contact with it. I will make special reference to a group already too victimized, such as that of women, since the wives, mothers and sisters of those who work are those who have suffered or are suffering in a very significant percentage of this type of ailments as a result of direct contact. Who has not had a brother who has had to wash his clothes or some other similar situation that has led him to have to endure this kind of ailment? In addition, with the Landicap of the non-existence of a given scope of assessment in respect of which some kind of claim could be made for the harmful consequence which is considered to have to be assessed. There is also an unfavorable feature, and that is that in this situation the pro-operative principle, which does exist with respect to those who do have an employment relationship, would not be appreciated. It is therefore very timely to mention article 13 of the proposal for a law, when it specifies as holders of the right to obtain full reparation for their harm both to those who have obtained recognition of an occupational disease caused by asbestos and to those who have suffered a direct injury resulting from an exposure to asbestos. We understand that this precision has enormous value, because it has the merit of not leaving out of the scope of action of the fund any victims whatever their source of contamination. Nor can the discussion of pathologies be alien to this debate. Unfortunately, the weaknesses of asbestos are, I would say, even relatively novel, because as a professional disease it has not been appreciated until a relatively recent time either. It stated the explanatory statement of the European Commission Directive 1999/77 of 27 June, which has not yet established a minimum level of exposure below which chrysolite asbestos does not pose carcinogenic risks. Well, mutatis mutandis, it is important for the design of an effective protection system to take into account the direct link which today shows successive scientific studies between certain pathologies and asbestos and, therefore, the consequence that, apart from the reason for exposure, the victim is considered to be entitled to benefits in this compensation fund. This association between recipients, pathologies and science must allow to design a certain scenario where the Administration can and must act and where it must also assume its own responsibilities. We will leave for the discussion of the draft law basic aspects such as that of financing, where companies, mutual societies and social security itself must actually take part, which also benefits in some way from the non-qualification of certain claims. Finally, apart from the part of the content that refers to other issues such as the legal nature of the fund, its structure and even the margin of the established procedure, the important thing is the need for its creation and that it is linked to the idea of addressing a serious social problem with the characters described. We will vote in favour of all this, but also for the consideration that with this proposal we all win, because the attention to the victims of asbestos is not only a matter of reparation to those who suffer it, it is also a way of understanding and addressing problems that must be addressed from their social prism and from respect for those suffering from such pathologies, since the greatest tragedy for a social system is that there is no other option but to take remedial measures such as the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u16	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Igea Arisketa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u17	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to begin by thanking you for the presence here today of asbestos victims' associations. Yesterday one of you called me worried about two things: to know what our position was going to be and to complain in a way that on a day like today this plenary would have been convened for this matter, because it seems that everything will be covered. No day better than today, no day better than today so that while some are dealing with delusion, selfishness and breaking the state that makes the welfare state possible, we, the representatives of the citizens, the representatives of the state take care of what really matters, which is to repair, help and protect the victims of the state's desire and judgment. There's no better day. [[Applauds]] What is asbestosis and what is asbestos disease? This is not a new thing, despite the things that have been said here. We have known since 1906 that asbestos-related asbestos has existed. We have known since 1935 about your relationship with lung cancer. We have known since 1945 about his intimate and practically exclusive relationship with mesothelioma. All these things we already knew. And why are we here? And knowing all this how we got here? We have come this far because this country consumed 2.6 billion tons of asbestos between the 1960s and 1980s. We are here despite the fact that in this country asbestosis was designated occupational disease in 1961 and lung cancer related to asbestos and mesothelioma was designated occupational disease in 1978. We are here because, although the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health in 1991 identified 60,400 people affected by occupational disease, we still consume asbestos and still work with asbestos. We are here despite the fact that between 1989 and 1998 1647 mesotheliomas were diagnosed. We were still consuming asbestos. We are here because we have consumed large amounts of asbestos and they will wonder why - with an occupational disease that causes 700 deaths a year - it has continued to be used. In 1962 the first measurement measure of 175 fibers per cubic meter of air was taken. In 1982 we already know how dangerous it is, we already know what's going on and we lowered it to 2 cubic meter fibers. In 1993 we reduced it to 0.6, but we continue to use it and we continue to consume it. Only in 2002 will we ban - the last in Europe - the use of asbestos. Sweden, Denmark, Belgium and other countries had already done so in the 1980s. And why didn't we do it? Why did this State not prohibit the use of asbestos? There are judicial statements by Juan Ignacio Camargo, one of the pneumologists who was a member of the National Commission of Amianto, in a trial held by some of the people affected by the Uralita company, in which he said that the Government decided not to prohibit the use of asbestos, not to prohibit the use of asbestos, in 1984, when it was raised, because of the high business and labor cost it assumed. We pay the business and labor costs with the lives and health of the gentlemen who are here today, and that is why we are here today. But we did something else. In 1987 - we all know who ruled between 1984 and 2000, in which it is prohibited - a register of companies is created, a register which - please note, gentlemen - is of a voluntary nature, to which one could or could not report. That is why many today cannot identify those responsible and why we have to come to this Parliament once again to set up a fund to compensate for the damage and desirous years of bad government, in which interest has prevailed over people's health. Ladies and gentlemen, these are - no day better than today to say it - the consequences of living with a toxic substance without isolating it; these are the consequences - no day better than today to say it - of not taking action in time; these are the consequences - never better than today to say it - that today make us have to face a serious disease, take serious measures and be in the situation we are in. What would be terrible is that after all these years and this experience, in one case and in another of the things that are drawing our attention here today, we would return to living with the toxic without taking appropriate measures. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u18	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u19	First of all, I would like to thank the work of the asbestos-affected associations that are accompanying us here today, the associations of Euskadi, Galicia and so many places that have been promoting this proposal of law, silent victims who, due to their suffering and their pain of so many years, must deserve our recognition and respect. Without your effort we would not be here today talking about something as necessary as the creation of this compensation fund for asbestos victims. [[Applauds]] I would also like to thank the representatives of the Basque Parliament for the work they have done in the presentation and for the effort they have made to bring this very important issue here. My group, the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea Group, will support this initiative, as we consider it essential to deal with the consequences of the serious problems arising from the use of asbestos. Not only do we agree with the proposal, but we believe that the situation should have been resolved a long time ago, as the first studies proving the harmful effects of asbestos on health date back to the middle of the previous century. That is why we believe that their approval is now urgent. As I say, the health effects of asbestos are well known. It was in the mid-seventies that the International Agency for Cancer Research, the IARC, demonstrated that fibres of all types of asbestos are carcinogenic and that there was no safe level of exposure. As has been said, the latency time is extremely long, and may pass in the case of mesothelioma up to thirty or forty years before the disease manifests itself. The relationship between disease cases and contact with asbestos is undisputed evidence. In this regard, compensation must be paid not only to workers in the sector, but also to their families and to persons who have been exposed to asbestos. The consequences for them have also been devastating, especially for women, as has already been said. Although the effects have long been known, their use in Spain has been banned only since 2001 and, due to the high period of latency of asbestos-related diseases, it seems that the peak diagnosis is still to be achieved. According to a study by the Carlos III Institute of Health, exposure to this mineral will continue to cause deaths in Spain until 2040. Ladies and gentlemen, the figures are staggering. According to the Istas Institute of Workers' Commissions, between 40,000 and 60,000 Spanish workers will die of cancer until 2030 because they have been exposed to asbestos for the last two decades. But even more scandalous is the neglect and neglect of the public authorities towards the victims and their families, in an explosive situation that requires urgent measures of reparation and compensation. To give us an idea, the number of annual deaths due to asbestos in our country at the moment is 700 workers per year; figures are comparable to those of deaths due to traffic accidents. A European study on carcinogen exposure, the Carex Project, indicates that in our country there were about 57 000 asbestos workers in the mid-1990s, while other estimates consider that in the last 40 years there will have been about 200 000 exposed workers. It should therefore be assumed that there are tens of thousands of asbestos victims without adequate health coverage. I want to say something here, because the representative of Citizens has reached a part of the process but has not reached the end. It defines very well the causes of all this the president of one of the associations affected, Francisco Martínez, who referring to his company says: They knew that we were playing health when we worked with asbestos and consented to it. I believe that this phrase defines very well the situation that asbestos workers are experiencing and the situation that has been experienced in our country. We are facing a tragedy, a tragedy that has been allowed to extend the time until this substance is banned in order to achieve greater economic benefit. In that regard, we must denounce that this is not a casual situation and that we must not speak in a reflective manner. The economic benefits have been put ahead of the health of people, workers and their families knowing what was being done and I think this should serve us to take action today and for the future. Not only is this fund necessary for workers affected by asbestos, but it is necessary to go further, because this example shows us that for a long time we can be in contact with dangerous and toxic substances whose use is perpetuated until their toxicity can be demonstrated. Normally, to get there, it takes intense work by associations and citizens' organizations, which have to face the power of industry lobbies until they are able to open the way and finally restrict and even ban these dangerous substances. It is therefore necessary to draw lessons from these painful cases and to put into practice the precautionary principle, which is nothing but a change in the burden of proof: whoever puts the product on the market is the one who must prove its safety before receiving the permit, and not as has been the case so far, that it is the affected who must demonstrate the effects to achieve those restrictions, often with very painful processes, ignorance and humiliation. That is why we must ensure mechanisms to promote the effective protection of workers and people in order to prevent future tragedies such as asbestos from occurring. This initiative originates in the Basque Parliament, in particular in the creation of a paper which sought to analyse the problems arising from asbestos and the creation of a possible compensation fund for those affected by the use of this material. In this respect, it is preceded by majority support from all the political parties in the Basque Parliament. Our group agrees with the purpose and proposal of the proposed law establishing a compensation fund for victims. It is a need that alleviates the defencelessness suffered by those affected, as many of these people cannot claim compensation from the companies that used the asbestos that caused the disease, as the disease has manifested itself in a large number of cases after the disappearance of many of these companies. Where the judicial process is restricted or compromised by the economic conditions of families, which have serious complications to face long judicial processes, public proposals are needed to create blameless compensation funds. In short - and I will finish - the case of asbestos shows the urgent need for a change in the productive model. We need to move from the current model to a model based on sustainability and respect for a healthy environment. It cannot be that we continue to play the Russian roulette, putting in the natural environment highly toxic and dangerous products and substances. We can and we know how to produce in another way and it is urgent to start doing so. Make no mistake, when we talk about the right to the environment, we talk about the right to breathe, to eat and to drink without poisoning us. This case makes it clear. Another productive model is possible, but to make it real one must have the will to reach it. Thank you so much and we'll keep going. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u20	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs De Frutos Madrazo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u21	Good afternoon. First of all, I would like to thank all the associations that are with us today, and especially Agavida, for I have been more aware of the issues that I am going to address now. Our group is pleased and proud that this initiative has been brought here, because it is a problem of justice and solidarity in the face of a history of the administration's passivity, of priority of economic interests, of irresponsibility of companies and of concealment that has led to what has often been called a genuine labour genocide. I am not going to repeat myself on issues that have already been discussed here, but we are going to make some input. Firstly, as the proposal for a law in the explanatory statement states, it is not true that it is not currently a preventive problem; asbestos is currently a first-class preventive problem. Why? Because the citizens are surrounded by more than 3 million tons of asbestos that will be removed, demolished, replaced by workers. And what's going on? For that frivolity with which asbestos has been treated by other companies years ago we are now living it with the companies that are dedicated to asbestos withdrawal. We have a standard of 2006 that regulates the RERA; we have plans, waste management, decontamination cabins, etc., but indeed many of these measures are not being implemented. Our group wants to point out with this that if we do not take prevention seriously, the time frame by which we will have affected by asbestos-related diseases will not be the year 2040 but will be indefinite. Therefore, for my group, prevention and compensation cannot be considered separately. In addition to a very important variety, it is that asbestos removal will brutally affect all people because of environmental pollution. Apart from that, we must bear in mind that we humans learn nothing from our mistakes; China, Russia and Canada continue to manufacture and export asbestos that is being consumed in third world countries, such as India. Given the globalization that exists, even our workers can be subjected to new contagions. Therefore, we must take into account what asbestos does to people: the long periods of latency, the irreversible prognosis, which does not have a curative treatment, that there is no level of exposure below which there is no risk, that is, that any exposure is totally dramatic. [[Rumors]] We must bear in mind that risk persists, that prevention is essential and that it must go hand in hand with risk compensation.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u22	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u23	A great deal of data has already been provided here, but there are currently 57 000 people registered in Pivista. I believe that these are facts that should make us think that we are facing a problem of extraordinary magnitude. It has been said here by a group - and it will certainly be repeated - that the protective action of people suffering from asbestos diseases is guaranteed by social security benefits, and that is a lie. Why? Because mutuals often do not recognize occupational diseases and cause workers to go through long judicial processes; because there are diseases that are not included as professionals, such as pleural plaques; because long periods of latency make it very difficult for workers to claim civil compensation because they cannot prove which job they occupied, because perhaps the company no longer exists; because they have difficulty in testing; because even though they know that it has systematically failed on the part of companies, they are recognizing only 30% of the burden; because there is an absolute deficiency in the notification and declaration of diseases, only 1.8% of those diagnosed, even in the mesothelioma, which is known to be always caused by asbestos, are asked if they smoke. We cannot allow them to continue to convince us that the current system of protection serves to protect us from the tragedy of asbestos. The tragedy of asbestos has revealed the poor functioning of our current social security system and our benefit system. Moreover, as I said before, we have a very important feature, and it is that from now on the entire population will be affected at the time of their withdrawal. With regard to the article, we would like to point out two simple questions. Firstly, we want broad protection - although the explanatory statement says so is not reflected in the joint - that is, not only are asbestososis, lung cancer, mesothelioma and larynx cancer recognized as occupational diseases, but also other diseases, such as pleural plaques and other types of cancers, such as trachea or pharynx, because they do not constitute occupational disease today, but we all know that they are caused by asbestos. In relation to the governing council, our group does not see with good eyes that associations and mutuals go separately, because this causes some imbalance, considering that mutuals are systematically denying the qualification of occupational disease and not recognizing the obvious. We would also be in favour of associations being on this governing board. I'm done. Our group will support this initiative for justice towards the victims. In the meantime, it is necessary for all companies to take responsibility for the removal of asbestos. It is necessary that the INSS and the mutuals do their work with flexibility, transparency and professionalism and that the whole society is involved, who has to think that when he has an asbestos uralite in his house he cannot throw it into the neighbor's container. We support this initiative, because we are finally beginning to do justice to this situation of labour genocide that has occurred. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u24	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Camps Devesa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, may I first of all welcome the representatives of the Basque Parliament, as well as the representatives of the asbestos-affected associations. As has already been pointed out, we are not facing a new debate, either in substance or in form, which does not mean - and I want to make it very clear from the outset - that my parliamentary group, as well as my political party, especially the People's Party in the Basque Country, are not about to repair the damage suffered by many workers by their exposure to asbestos; moreover, we are also about to protect unprofessionally exposed populations which have been or may be affected. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to repeat the relative - relative emphasis - but also, in the times we are living, a positive surprise that an initiative of an autonomous parliamentary assembly, with the favourable vote of several nationalist groups, will pursue the creation of a state fund, with a clearly centralized structure, which will be financed with revenues obtained throughout the territory of the State and whose aims - I quote textually - reach the whole territory of the Kingdom of Spain, where the Basque Country and the rest of the autonomous communities are undoubtedly included. You will agree with me, ladies and gentlemen, that requests such as these from an autonomous Parliament are not usually common in this Parliament. For our group, welcome be. Relative surprise - I repeat - but positive surprise, although it does not occur on numerous occasions. For this reason, Your Honor, perhaps the proposal for a law suffers, in our view, from a certain technical-legal rigour; a technical-legal rigour that must have, because, if not, it could prove, in the end, that what we are all pursuing, which is the creation of a fund to compensate the victims who have been affected by asbestos, could not become a reality in our country. Why am I saying this? Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, because the creation of an autonomous state body for the management of the fund - I repeat, we do not question its existence - may be inappropriate, but that autonomous state body, with its intended structure, does not correspond to the own of the autonomous state bodies - which can be fixed - which are provided for in the Law on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector. Secondly, because it is difficult to justify - and I think it is hardly rebuttable, ladies and gentlemen - that the compensation for the damage caused by exposure to asbestos is financed, inter alia, from resources such as an additional contribution established for all employers who have employed others, as well as through the contribution of the mutual social security partners. I say this because from the moment when compensation may be granted to persons who have suffered damage from exposure to asbestos, without through the provision of services in which they may have been exposed to this material, the financing of such compensation for all employers who have employed others or by mutual collaborators is not very well founded as long as there is no link between these entities and the damage suffered by exposure to asbestos. To this it should be added that the obligation to make an additional contribution is imposed indiscriminately on all employers - as I have said - who have employed others, regardless of whether there is no possibility of exposure to asbestos in their workplaces or whether there has been such a possibility at some point. This is an issue that we will undoubtedly have to resolve. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the exposure to asbestos - this is one of the oblivions of the proposal - may also have occurred in self-employed workers who do not appear to be obliged to contribute, even if they do so by professional contingencies. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal establishes a kind of objective liability for the totality of the damage suffered, which would fall within the scope of civil liability, but regardless of the notion of fraud or liability of the employer. We must therefore consider how far it will be entirely appropriate to introduce a new tax on all undertakings - I do not say that we are against introducing it, but on all undertakings - in the form of a social contribution directed at the financing of compensation to cover what is a civil liability. Moreover, I do not resist to say this, ladies and gentlemen, this mechanism can clash with the architecture of the social security system in which social contributions are used under a scheme of allocation in the financing of social security contributions, and what is now proposed is the creation of new contributions on a finalist basis aimed at financing compensation for civil liability. An equally important issue, with regard to the budgetary changes necessary for the Fund to start its activities, is that we are faced with a forecast that can hardly be fulfilled, because at that time, at the time of the Fund's operationalization, revenues for the operation of the Fund have not yet begun to be generated, so the only resources available would be for the start of its activity the transfers and appropriations of the State, which, of course - and I repeat, which is very important - would be non-existent if we had an extended budget. That is why the responsibility of certain parliamentary groups in this House must also be called upon to resolve these things. In addition, it should be remembered that the social security system - as has already been said - already protects workers who have been exposed to asbestos by means of the occupational disease benefits, having established a surcharge for benefits where employers have failed to comply with occupational health and safety measures. In addition, in December 2002, a Government of the People's Party approved the programme for monitoring the health of workers exposed to asbestos, the so-called Pivistasa, in which nearly 36,000 people are already registered. In conclusion, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal defines in great detail the administrative organisation, but, in our view, not the main thing, which is the scope, the benefits and - very important - the type of additional contribution necessary for its financing, which logically depends on the two above. However, the above does not prevent my group from taking into account the proposal which, even if - as I have made clear - certain errors, inconcretions and loopholes which prevent our favourable vote, these can be corrected in the subsequent procedure, so my group's position will be that of abstention, not preventing the processing of this proposal for a law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u26	Thank you very much. We thank the delegation of the Basque Parliament for its presentation and its presence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u27	The next item is the agenda item on the proposal for a law of the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, which is an organic reform of the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr. Legarda Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u28	Thank you very much, President. The Basque Parliamentary Group proposes the amendment of the Criminal Code to repeal the reviewable permanent prison, and the reasons for this proposal are, in addition to its dubious constitutionality, criminal policy, which formed part of the basic constitutional consensuses, both in the Constitutional Courts and in its formulation by the Legislature constituted by the General Penitentiary Law. We also propose the repeal of permanent imprisonment from the principle of proportionality, which should guide all criminal policy decisions. The permanent prison damages without foundation one of the great constitutional consensuss. [[Rumors]] As is known, the constituent moment devoted important debates... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u29	One second, Mr. Legarda. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u30	Thank you very much, President. He said that the constituent moment devoted important debates to the criminal response, being the opposite of the system of rights and freedoms that was intended to be dogmatically founded after the long Franco dictatorship. Precisely for this reason, he fled from a totalitarian, unequal, disproportionate, unjust or merely retributive criminal response. On the contrary, a guaranteed criminal response, governed by the principle of humanization of the sentence, was chosen, in which the factor of the danger of the sentenced person was reoriented towards re-education and social reintegration. This balance was found in article 25 of the Constitution, as well as in others, such as the principle of the dignity of the person, in the absence of degrading treatment, article 15 in relation to 10; or that of criminal legality in its expression of taxivity, article 25; or the same of legal certainty in article 9. The General Penitentiary Law advanced fully in this model balanced between the retributive and the recovery of the sentence for society as the ultimate goal of the legitimately imposed sentence. Now, however, the permanent prison departs from this constitutional consensus, by de facto questioning the effective expectation of the sentenced person in his reintegration and also the legitimate expectation of the same society to recover him. That is why we can say that the establishment of a permanent reviewable prison is one of the most important criminal policy decisions since the establishment of democracy and marks a milestone in a conception of criminal law, of criminal policy, which we cannot share from the humanist ideology of the Basque Nationalist Party, which postulates ethical values of justice, freedom and equality, and, in criminal law, guaranteed values of minimal intervention, resocialization and also, of course, of remuneration. For this reason, we oppose from our values a preferentially retributive criminal policy and we also oppose, without of course falling into naiveties, a criminal right of risk or danger that defines the risk or danger in advance of the result and that correlatively constantly increases the amount of the penalties, something twin, by the way, to what we have also seen in the Law on Citizen Security and on which the Basque Nationalist Party has also submitted a proposal for a law for its amendment and which this House has admitted for its processing. The Basque Parliamentary Group of the Basque Nationalist Party is also opposed to the existence of a permanent prison that can be reviewed because it does not, from our conception of the criminal policy, satisfy the needs of society and therefore we do not consider it a proportional penalty either from its necessity or from its suitability or from the principle of proportionality in a strict sense. Is permanent prison reviewable a necessary penalty for reasons of criminal policy? We understand you don't. Or were the conduct punishable by this penalty not enough punishment? We think so. Ladies and gentlemen, in our criminal reality - it has already been said to be satiety - the number of the most serious crimes continues to decrease year by year, according to the prosecution's reports, and we also had in our system the harshest custodial sentences in our environment and in quite a few cases of full compliance; even, at the low rate of crime it was surprisingly accompanied by a high rate of prison population with ages that could exceed sixty-five years. For this reason, the reviewable permanent prison was not claimed either before or now by the legal profession or by the criminal doctrine or by the forces and security forces or by the Judicial Police or by the political parties. We believe that, as has been said in numerous forums of criminal doctrine, its implementation is due to the punitive populism caused by the sensationalism of some media that bulge society in its growing demands for punishment and which the People's Party welcomes as being in accordance with its preferentially retributive penal ideology, but which we believe is not a majority in this House. We also maintain that this reviewable sentence of permanent imprisonment is not suitable for the purpose it claims to pursue, since the completion of the sentence is achieved in many cases without taking into account the degree of contempt that the conduct has caused and has inflicted on the legal assets it claims to protect. For this reason, it is not suitable in its configuration for prevention that is intended nor is it suitable since the realization of the idea of justice through fair judicial decisions. Nor do we consider the sentence of permanent imprisonment to be proportionate in the strict sense, i.e. to the extent that it causes more damage to other property than that which it seeks to avoid. First, this reviewable sentence of permanent imprisonment erodes the principles of re-education and social reintegration of the prisoner; for its duration it has irreparable effects on his psychology when, moreover, the pre-existing sentences already put him in grave danger, and I would like to recall in this regard the considerations of the Supreme Court when it reflects on the irreparable effects of custodial sentences over fifteen years. This reviewable permanent prison sentence also undermines the legal certainty and the principle of legality in its manifestation, as already advanced, of the principle of taxation, which prevents uncertainties and inconcretions in the certainty not only of the established conduct but also of the combined penalty. The penalty of permanent reviewable imprisonment is indeterminate within the time limit of the sanction by associating it with the fulfilment of uncertain requirements to be met by the prisoner, and its review, after long periods of effective enforcement, is linked to the fallible prediction of the conduct of the sentenced person. Finally - and I conclude, Madam President - reasons based on constitutional consensus, reasons based on criminal policy data, reasons based on a humanist ideology such as that advocated by the Parliamentary Group of the Basque Nationalist Party, lead us to call for the support of this House for the proposal of a law to repeal the reviewable permanent prison, because to say, as stated in the explanatory statement, that this penalty was born to strengthen confidence in justice through just and predictable judicial resolutions would be in the conception of a penal and social model such as that of the People's Party, but that we consider it does not have a majority in this House and that we can now change if this proposal for a law is taken into account. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor at the time of the joint group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is appropriate to reiterate once again that permanent reviewable imprisonment is a penalty reserved exclusively for the most serious crimes and for crimes directed at the most vulnerable persons. I think you know the case and I'm not going to reproduce it because I don't have time. For this reason, it is true, it does not apply much, but it is not negligible the deterrent effect it produces, which in any case would be good to counter. What casuistry could it accommodate? For a jihadist terrorist who attacks a crowd indiscriminately and kills thirteen people, a parricide who kills his wife and daughters, tears them apart and in the trial says he has no mental problem, a multiple rapist, a serial killer, a magnicide, a terrorist... Real cases. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that as a society we also have the right to defend ourselves from all of them and from all these attitudes without denying compassion to the offender, which is not incompatible at all. That is why the sentence of twenty-five years is reviewable by a court with all the guarantees and it does not seem unconstitutional to us. In any case, I do not share this punitive logic of the authors who, in the face of other legal reforms, propose to raise the penalties to other types of minor offences. Does it make sense to reduce the penalties to the great criminals and to extend them, even to the point that the principle of presumption of innocence should not apply, to behaviour that is infinitely less reprehensible, also despicable, as set out in the LGTBI proposal that you supported? In criminal matters, I have to tell you a certain amount of prevention when I study your proposals. It is true that you have been in favour of reducing sentences to the most serious crimes traditionally. For example, none of the laws we passed in the past to end the terrorist band ETA had its express support, at least while I was here, and we talked about big criminals and a threat that, precisely because of the harsher penalties, we were able to overcome and whose perpetrators, at least some, still have some pending trial in Argentina for crimes of genocide and against humanity. What do you want me to tell them? Even so, if I thought that the crimes were going to decrease with their reform, I would vote for it, but I honestly don't believe it. There is nothing that makes me think that a reduction of the sentence or a more benevolent legislation with the big criminals and criminal organizations can better help everyone's goal of achieving greater deterrence and a lesser crime of this type of crime. For that reason, ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote no. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u33	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, I have the floor, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u34	As we discussed in the debate on the same issue a year ago, Euskal Herria Bildu supports the repeal of the proposed permanent reviewable prison, the life imprisonment. We believe that its incorporation into the Criminal Code was a further step in the anti-democratic drift of the State that goes against its own Constitution, as the proponent said, as it rejected life imprisonment. On the contrary, it did establish that the penalties were aimed at reinsertion, a goal from which the Criminal Code is removed with the reforms that have been carried out, as well as with the adoption of another series of laws that today constitute a whole body of exceptional legislation that undermines all the basic European principles of human rights. We said it in his day and I want to reiterate it today. The 2015 reform made the 2010 code more stringent and less secure; in turn, it had made the 2003 code more stringent and less secure, which in turn had done the same with the 1995 code. Paradoxically, they were all less guarantors than they were in 1973. That is why, while reiterating our support for the reform that is before us, we must also say that we are of the opinion that the Criminal Code, as well as all the exceptional legislation in which I incorporate the Law on gags or the Law on parties, require a more comprehensive reform, a far-reaching reform. This and no other we understand that it is the way to stop using such laws for political purposes and that, as they have already been doing in Euskal Herria, in the very near future in Catalonia it cannot be used to illegalize parties - some people already point to it - it cannot be used to accuse of sedition those who apply democracy or for the persecution of any political dissent, because ultimately that is what these laws pursue: criminalizing political dissent in any of its expressions. All this is without prejudice to the fact that we continue to seek - and I cannot finish without saying - to draw up our own criminal legislation and, of course, to make it democratic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u35	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Compromís has always been saying that we have a penal code full of patches, of patches that deprive you of coherence and make you a hypertrophied text, often confused, where for a long time you are suffering the basic principles of criminal law born of the Constitution; principles such as proportionality of punishment, legal certainty, fragmentation of criminal protection, minimal intervention. It is necessary to restore the internal coherence of the Criminal Code and its harmony with the constitutional principles, also with that of resocialization and with that of the reinsertion of the offender prescribed in article 25 of our Constitution, because I would like to recall that the capacity of the State to impose penalties is not an end in itself, but, as the constituent says, an instrument for achieving the resocialization of persons who have committed crimes. And of course we must stick to the constitutional text and not just use it for what interests us. And this, the principle of resocialization, is what destroys the reviewable life sentence that we currently have in force, which was imposed in the agony of the absolute majority of the People's Party there for 2015 and that logically now, in the democratic plurality in which we are, we must reverse. Do you remember that famous phrase of 'putting yourself in jail' uttered by a government president who had not supported the Constitution, who did not work for it but then did have very clear and unconstitutional ideas about what is the purpose of criminal law? Do you remember that, that former president whose shadow still plans? Well, this is precisely what the reviewable life sentence is: a sentence to rot, not to resocialize, and so we in Compromís are going to support this reform proposal that we consider essential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u38	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, punitive populism, as Mr Legarda said. That is what you call some to this extent, which you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, imposed on an absolute majority. It's not a bad term, but I prefer to call it punitive demagogy. Although demagogy and populism go there, enquires, there are nuances. It is true that every populist is a demagogue, but not every demagogue is a populist. Let us say that populism intends to completely destroy democracy by those who feel superior to the law, while the demagogues are gradually weakening it. The case is that if there were no demagogues that damaged it with such measures or with virtually institutionalized corruption, for example, populisms would probably not exist or at least their existence would become more complicated. That's why, deep down, some of them need each other. Even a hand is given if necessary, we have already checked it on some other occasion. Well, the reviewable permanent prison is demagogue... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u39	One second, Mrs. Reyes. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u40	Thank you, President. The permanent reviewable prison is demagogue even in its denomination, they called it that to sound nicer, but we all know very well that we are actually facing life imprisonment. You always justify this measure by claiming that many European countries include it in their legislation and cite some such as Austria, Belgium, Italy or Germany. And yes, they are countries that have it and call it life imprisonment, openly, without caps, but curiously in those countries this penalty is much more beneficial for the sentenced than in Spain because in Spain the prison could be reviewed with very harsh conditions after twenty-five or thirty-five years of fulfillment, while in the rest of countries, those who openly call it life imprisonment, can be suspended much sooner, from the fifteen years. Moreover, none of those countries included in its Constitution the obligation to ensure that custodial sentences were geared towards re-education and social reintegration. Instead, Spain did include it, it is one of the principles of our criminal law. See how complete and how this little book, our Constitution, which has allowed these forty years of democracy, which some now defy, which they have even burned and which others call the 78's regime in a disparate way, guarantees rights and freedoms. [[Shows a copy of the Spanish Constitution]] For this reason, the life imprisonment that you have entered is in contradiction with the values that inspire our Magna Charter. As the professor and lawyer of the Constitutional Court, Professor Lascuraín, says, if the sentence is permanent it is inhuman and if it is reviewable it is imprecise. Therefore, contrary to the principle of humanity, implicit in social reintegration, and also contrary to the principles of legal certainty and legality. Moreover, you well knew that this was not necessary. A number of reforms had already been made for the full enforcement of sentences, which provided for 40 years of non-revisionable enforcement for very serious crimes. You knew it well, but, of course, you were on an election campaign. These kinds of initiatives have a great media impact, they have to do with crimes that have touched the deepest of our being, that have made us mobilize - terrorism, murders of minors - are crimes that shock society as a whole. Let us not play with that pain, there are many victims who suffer it directly, for some it is already inconsolable. Let us always show our support that, I assure you, it is not limited to changing articles of the Criminal Code alone. Moreover, we must not shift the false belief from the Legislature that a tightening of penalties will always translate into greater protection and security for society because this is not the case. Security does not depend solely on the severity of penalties that threaten certain conduct. Some prison experts point out that it can even produce the opposite effect. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we want, revenge or justice? Revenge does not marry democracy well. Of course, we must not neglect that social feeling, but always from rationality and within the principles that govern our criminal law. You didn't take any of this into account, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. The reviewable permanent prison did not receive a single support from this House, it was approved only at the cost of the absolute majority they had. The criticisms of the Council of Europe for not justifying their need or their usefulness were bleak. It received negative reports from the General Council of the Judiciary and the General Council of the Bar. A manifesto against was even drafted signed by more than sixty professors from this country. The Doña Consuelo Madrigal herself, whom you appointed as the Attorney General of the State, protested against this measure and, even so, was more interested in the party. Fortunately, they will no longer be able to deal with something as transcendental as this in the same way. Something that removes the foundations of our criminal law, something that upsets the values of our Constitution, must be approached with the opinion of all, and especially of experts. Over the past 20 years, more than 25 reforms of our Penal Code have been carried out; patches and more patches. Let us address this issue and all those who have to do with it in a unitary manner in that subcommittee that we have open for a national justice strategy. Finally, a plea: let us respect our Constitution, which has, among other things, provided us with a peaceful coexistence between Spaniards in recent decades. They don't think they're superior to her or her predecessors, they don't break that peace that it took so much to build. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u41	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u42	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. The best tradition of European criminal law has been a humanist tradition, which means that we have basically made progress in better treating detainees, people who committed crimes. This has been so for a while; I will not mention Beccaria, who is a classic, but perhaps I can bring in the words of someone who can sound to them, Concepción Arenal, that illustrious penitentiary who said that so graphic, but with the need to be repeated, of hating crime but sympathizes with the offender. That is a bit the element that has somehow inspired all that is criminal law so far. What happened? Well, I'm sorry to say, but the People's Party is a deeply reactionary party. On 30 March 2015, with that organic law that you passed in solitary and without listening absolutely to anyone, we were kicked around 1928; the year in which, in the full dictatorship of Primo de Rivera, life imprisonment was abolished from the Penal Code. What a dictatorship was able to do was resurrected you in a Penal Code, and did so in a Spain, in a place, in a state, where the penalties, compared to Europe, were infinitely higher because of the successive reforms you had been making, reaching even forty years in prison, where there was a low crime rate, the highest rate of imprisonment and where the temporary stay in prison compared to Europe had a higher average. So why did they do it? They did so because you simply exchanged pain for votes, they did so because you applied a criminal law of statistics and that criminal law of statistics, or what has been called populism, is simply unacceptable. That is why we will support the proposal for a law brought to us by the Basque Nationalist Party. In addition to all that, you did it with a bad legislative technique because you applied or moved crimes whose interpretation was peaceful in doctrine, such as murder or murder; you did it by applying excessively long sentences to life imprisonment, with a very remote possibility of revision of between twenty-five and thirty-five years - you will already tell me the possibility of reinsertion with those temporary stays - and you did it by establishing requirements for revision of the sentence that are virtually impossible to fulfill. Nor did they solve the problem of article 76 of the Criminal Code, which has been called eternal sentences. In short, you went through the big door of the European framework of human rights, and you see that the European framework is a framework of minimums because it has to co-honest different laws of countries as different as Spain and Ukraine, for example. You have, in a way, been saying that life imprisonment in other countries is absolutely recognized by this European Court, yes, but the temporary framework in which it applies is much less than what you have applied and, moreover, when those States have not established a real and effective exit framework, the European Court itself has condemned them, as is the case with the Winter case, which you so much like to quote. They also like to quote the International Criminal Court saying that the International Criminal Court establishes a minimum of twenty-five years. What you do not say - because you do not read the article well - that these cases are for crimes such as genocide, against humanity, aggression or war crimes, that is, what the Nazis did in Nuremberg. You are trivializing life imprisonment in the Penal Code and approving it with such crimes, which, of course, are far more serious. And since Mr. Savior has already appeared in one way or another as his teller to say that this is very necessary because, you see, we have jihadism, the principle of need of punishment what he establishes is that we actually threaten that jihadist who goes with a belt full of explosives willing to die and kill by telling him that, if you fail, we will put him in prison forever. I believe that with that it is definitive, it will turn around and say: By Allah, the Penal Code!, at this moment I already give up my own attitude and go home. [[Applauds]] That kind of demagogicism makes no sense, nor is it in any way determined what the cause-effect relationship you intend to produce between this excessive toughening of penalties and what crime prevention is, because it just doesn't matter to you. You like to read some of the articles of the Constitution and even underline it with that phosphorite rojigualda, etc., but you stop reading other articles that correspond to the dogmatic part that is the protection of human rights, which is article 9, the principle of legality, article 15, the prohibition of inhuman and degrading punishment or treatment, and article 25.2, which is the one that establishes the principle of reintegration and which must necessarily be applied in the Spanish State above even the European standards that you have olympically jumped, without any kind of remorse or pressure. Taking all this into account, all you had left to say was that the imposition of the permanent reviewable sentence contributed nothing less than confidence in the administration of justice, and - I add - far beyond the fact that the administration of justice has material and human means to prosecute certain crimes, that citizens have the perception that some white-collar crimes are being pursued less than others or some corruption crimes are being pursued less than others, or that fees for access to justice are being imposed or that, for example, access to free justice is being impeded, as we saw in environmental matters. This, of course, does not contribute at all to the confidence of citizens in the administration of justice, but it seems that the establishment of life imprisonment does so in an absolutely irrefutable way, even if we do not have a single proof that this is so. Therefore, you are a party that acts completely unaware of the Spanish Constitution; you have returned in the early twentieth century applying a principle of revenge and not a principle of justice and breaking with all that humanist tradition of criminal law. As we have told you, we will vote in favour and introduce technical amendments to improve the text and to solve the problems that exist in Spain right now with long sentences. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u43	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Campo Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have already heard, it is not an issue that comes to this House for the first time or specifically to the Committee on Justice. I would now like to put our group's vote in favour of taking into account the repeal of the permanent reviewable prison. The denomination itself, and we have heard it too, is a contradiction in its terms. What is permanent is difficult to review and what is permanent is difficult to review. This is a dark way of doing politics that we should overcome. In the minutes I have before me, I intend to explain the reasons that my group has for voting in favour of repealing this sentence. I could finish my speech before I began by saying that these are the very principles on which constitutional criminal law has been built in the last four centuries. Indeed, the motivation used by the legislator of Organic Law 1/2015, in which this penalty is introduced, is very weak. Its preamble is limited to saying that it is a punishment justified by the need for extraordinary responses. It is because of this that Professor Hasemer calls the new conception of criminal law, and it is that conception of criminal law transformed into a right of defence against dangers. However, the professor himself, whom I have just mentioned, tells us that care must be taken to establish mechanisms to combine that legitimate desire to protect us against dangers with something as simple and basic as the foundations of criminal law: principles, values and what are called the guarantees of criminal law. Ladies and gentlemen, I would love to keep talking to you about Hassemer and the Marquis of Beccaria and even today is a good time to bring in the native law of Lardizábal, but I think you would get up from your seats and we are already very few to feed that suggestion. There's something that's clear. The basic features of a particular society are produced and incardinated in the definition of their criminal types and in the sanctions that are established to punish them, but we cannot hyperbole it because they also reflect the fears of a society. Let us therefore put the weight on what defines the basic features of our society, that is, on the values that we have given ourselves as a modern and civilized society, and let us flee from fears. This is precisely what the legislator of Organic Law 1/2015 takes advantage of to incorporate a penalty like the one we have been analyzing. Why? Because he does it from fear. And there's something very simple. This law, which gives rise to this norm, to this sanction, is - I say without modesty - unnecessary, inappropriate and ill-conceived. Why do I say it's unnecessary? This was said by the Council of State when draft Organic Law 1/2015 was submitted to it. But the very system of our Penal Code also establishes what has been called by doctrine in a common way the full and effective enforcement of sentences, so that it was not necessary. And another issue that keeps hammering me is that it's unnecessary because we beat ETA without it. It's unnecessary. But I have said that it is also inappropriate, and I will give you an example that is possibly more graphic than any other issue. Five murders, rating 572 - I'm talking about before the 1/2015 reform -, 125-year sentence. For the purposes of articles 76, 78, 36, 90 et seq., the table would be: maximum compliance time, 40 years; 32 years for third degree and 35 years for conditional release. Ladies and gentlemen, was it necessary to alter the Criminal Code by transmuting all these principles for this? But I told them it's unnecessary, it's inopportune and it's misconceived. Why is she misconceived? Because it really has what doctrine calls criminogenic effects. If we establish for the first murder the maximum sanction, that is, the permanent prison that can be reviewed in those terms of hardness that we have been analyzing, the second, third, fourth and fifth murders actually come out free. Secondly, it is ill-conceived because, if article 70.4 of the Criminal Code is analysed and the lower penalty to the degree, it is seen that the legislator - you - established the penalty from twenty to thirty years, when the revision can be given to the twenty-five. In other words, there may be a paradox that the sentence of origin is less than the lower penalty. Ladies and gentlemen, I really believe that we have mechanisms not to break those basic principles that we have talked about so much: the right lex and the principle of taxivity. A law that does not clearly establish what it means is doing a weak favor to two basic principles: one, freedom, but not freedom as a fundamental right, but freedom as a superior value of the legal system, that is, article 1 of the Constitution; and also - of course not! - it is denying this resocializing concept, which is set out in the second paragraph of article 25 of the Constitution itself and which was so certainly developed by the Prison Surveillance Act of 1979. Ladies and gentlemen, I think society will thank us and our right will be strengthened. I hope that the Constitutional Court will rule on these matters, because there really is a very clear doctrine emanating from the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights on the qualification and analysis of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights; that is, that the reviewability, which is the key concept that the European Court analyses in its judgments, determines two moments: when and the requirements. When we have already seen that it has a very high time and I invite you to read article 92. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that the sense of vote is favourable and let us finally put aside what is called excessive criminal law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u45	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Barreda de los Ríos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u46	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Legarda, as has already been said, it is a repeated debate and a repeated debate. It is a debate in which the proponents are relieved and the arguments are repeated. Today it is up to the PNV to act as a proponent. It does so with a sector of doctrine as a pretext and with the alleged unconstitutionality of permanent prison reviewable as the axis of its argumental repertoire. If the concern is constitutionality, as Mr Campo reiterated a moment ago, it would seem more logical to expect the ruling of the Constitutional Court. The rule is appealed, pending judgement, and we should all be on sentence. The PP and the government of the nation, have no doubt, we will abide by the sentence, whatever its meaning. Mr. Legarda, these haste and urgency of yours seem to indicate that you do not trust to reach the high court's support for your thesis or, worse, that, when the time comes, constitutional or non-constitutional, reviewable permanent prison, will rank in your repeal as mere political box. But even more surprising is his appeal to the doctrine from the first sentence of the bill. They appeal to a sector of doctrine that is far from unanimous on this issue. I still do not understand that servile and ancillating relationship of some political groups in this House with a sector of doctrine. I am particularly surprised at the lack of reflection on the consequences of the approach they are taking. Because the fact is that his proposal for a law has concrete consequences not for the doctrine, commentators or sales figures of some criminal law manual, but for the citizens, for the people. You have to read the PNV proposal well. What they propose is to reduce the penalties for the perpetrators of the most heinous crimes. These are cases of extreme gravity, not anything, which are most alarming and socially reprimanded and for which citizens demand the greatest criminal reprimand. I ask you: do you really believe, ladies and gentlemen, that citizens want a reduction in the time spent in such crimes? Do you want to make us believe that Spanish society demands lighter penalties for magnitides, child killers or those who take their victims' lives after sexual assault? Do you claim that terrorists like those in Barcelona deserve a more benevolent consideration than the current one in our criminal legislation? Do you really support this? I ask because that is what you have come to defend today and what you will support with your vote or with your abstention, Mrs Reyes. They are going to support that reduction of sentences and that the worst murderers, rapists, genocidals and terrorists will receive shorter and more benevolent sentences in our country. They do so whether they invoke doctrine or not, but this is what you stand for in this debate. If they are so convinced, they should say so without masking it in technicalities and argumental falsehoods. If you want to reduce the sentences, please make it clear that the citizens know the true content of your proposals; proposals that we, ladies and gentlemen, neither share nor share. Members of the People's Parliamentary Group could not face the gaze of the victims of such crimes and their families after adopting such reform behind the back of our society; we could not do so because, to be exact, it is a reform diametrically opposed to the demands of our society. Some seem to be working or legislating in this House for doctrine; we work and legislating for the citizens, in this case to gain the confidence of the Spaniards in justice, and this requires providing justice with instruments that allow a greater criminal charge for exceptionally serious crimes. Well, you say that the reviewable permanent prison is unconstitutional and, in our view, the reality is very different. The reviewable permanent prison does not give up nor could it in any case do so with the reinsertion of the sentenced person. It would not be possible because that is the provision of articles 15 and 25.2 of our Constitution, and therefore the Criminal Code provides for a review of the personal situation of the sentenced person; a review that will take place within the time that determines the sentence, between twenty-five and thirty-five years, in fact, and that with a favourable prognosis of social reintegration will allow access to freedom subject to the condition of not committing new crimes. Before that review - this is important and none of you mentioned it this afternoon, I think you deliberately omit it - the sentenced person to permanent reviewable prison will be applied to him the same mechanisms of resocialization and reintegration of other long-term sentences, that is, the same regime for grade progression and, therefore, for the system of early permits and exits, even since the eight years of imprisonment. I insist, this is never mentioned by you. The provision for periodic judicial review therefore removes any doubt of inhumanity, ladies and gentlemen, turning your appeals to life imprisonment into a mere caricature. We are not faced with a definitive penalty, but with a figure that matches the rigour of the criminal response to extremely serious cases with the aim of reintegrating the penalties provided for in our Constitution and in that of our neighbours, who also include figures similar to the permanent prison that can be reviewed in their criminal legislation. And I say our neighbours because of the humanity of Iranian criminal law, of which some may be able to tell us something, or of the Venezuelan prison system, of which you certainly know a lot, I do not think we have anything to learn in Spain, although - I insist - they do not lack admirers in this House. Ours is an extended model in the comparative law of democratic countries, a model which the European Court of Human Rights considers to be in conformity with the European Convention on Human Rights as long as there are review mechanisms; it was stated - we like to quote it, indeed - in the case of Vinter and others against the United Kingdom in 2013, in the case of Kafkaris against Cyprus in 2008, in judgments of 2009 in relation to Germany or 2014 in relation to France. In all cases, the possibility of review is the key to the compatibility of such convictions with article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. That is also the case in many instruments of international law; indeed, some ratified unanimously or almost unanimously in this House. Article 37 (a) of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified by this Chamber, prohibits the death penalty and the life imprisonment of minors without the possibility of release, i.e. allows the life imprisonment of minors with the possibility of release. And the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, in its article 77, also provides for life imprisonment or indefinite sentences, which, according to article 110, will be reviewed at the age of twenty-five, Mrs. Reyes, i.e. exactly the same time limit as our Criminal Code. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group considers that with the penalty of permanent imprisonment, our Criminal Code gives a proportional and constitutional response to crimes of extreme gravity, a rated list of crimes that are perceived as more serious, that generate greater social rejection and deserve greater criminal reprimand. We do not seek the applause of the doctrine, we leave it to you, but rather the confidence of the citizens in our legal system, and this requires a clear perception that the sentences imposed and the laws applied take into account the gravity of the criminal conduct they sanction. I'm done. Read and reread at your convenience and with the nostalgia that you want the sector of doctrine that is more of your liking. Explain to the Spanish on behalf of what doctrine they resign. We believe that there is no doctrine justifying resignation or passivity in relation to crimes against defenceless victims or terrorism. Therefore, since the Constitution, at the service of the Spaniards, we must provide justice with the means to respond proportionately to such serious criminal conduct as today's punishment of permanent reviewable imprisonment. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, by reiterating our compliance with what the Constitutional Court has delivered on its day, we will vote against the consideration of the present proposal for a law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u47	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u48	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the amendment of Law 1/2004 of 21 December, on Commercial Schedules. [[Mrs. Sorlí]] For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, I have the floor, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u49	Thank you, President. Today we present the amendment of Law 1/2004 on Commercial Schedules. We want autonomic governments to be able to decide again how to organize their own trade. The nearest administrations were, until recently, responsible for demarcating the areas of great tourist influx, as well as the opening festivities. However, as on so many other issues, the central Government has used the crisis as an excuse to put an end to this competition. Now all this is mandatory without taking into account the specific needs of each site. The state government has worked in recent years to try to re-centralize competencies and decide from Madrid what is right for each territory. The Trade Schedules Act is a clear example of this re-centralisation, which affects not only the Valencia Country and the autonomous governments, but also people in particular. Small and therefore self-employed businesses are the first to be affected by this change. With the compulsory opening on Sundays and holidays the small trade is severely affected. We talk about small shops run by a person, with little staff or family management, shops that guarantee the survival of our most traditional and genuine offer, shops with little staff that cannot face opening on Sundays and holidays and that, if they do, will be at the expense of rest and family reconciliation. These businesses, which give added value to our economy, are clearly at a disadvantage with large companies, those with large staff and more flexible working conditions. The small business is faced with the dichotomy of giving up rest or closing its doors. So this change we are presenting is a clear benefit to the self-employed. The second of the direct affections that this law has about people is family reconciliation. People working in shops also have the right to reconcile, rest and enjoy their families. Let's legislate thinking about these rights and these families. The holidays and Sundays are days of rest, are days of being at home or of personal leisure, also of enjoying with our parents or with our daughters. We need to start moving towards a real and realistic work and family reconciliation. To this end, we must rationalize timetables in every way, we must work to ensure that all people have the right to rest, leisure and family life, to work for the sector they work for. We also take advantage of the fact that this initiative is brought to plenary to expand it. We want more benefits for families and self-governments, eliminating the minimum of public holidays so that each autonomous government can legislate and negotiate according to its own circumstances, because every people, every city, every self-government is a world. Today, with this proposal, each political group decides which side it is on, on the side of power or on the side of people. This proposal to amend the Commercial Schedules Act has three fundamental benefits: recognition and respect for local and autonomous governments, maintenance of traditional small business, and family and work reconciliation. The needs of each territory are known to the nearest Government. Albacete's needs are not the same as the Valencians, but it is that Andalusians are not the same as Galicians. The refocusing model to which they have clinged all these years has proved to be outdated and obsolete. Who can know better the need for a territory than their own Government? You decide who you vote with today, with the centralist model or with the nearest administrations. This capitalist and liberal model favors, above all, large companies. The small shop run by self-employed or with little staff is doomed to failure with this model. What company with one or no hired person can bear to open seven days a week? You decide who you vote with today, with the big companies or with the autonomous and small businesses. For the staff employed, moreover, this model is atrocious; hours and hours of work having to leave the family in a background. Who can go home for lunch on Sunday if they have to open the store? You decide who you vote with today whether with labour exploitation or with families. So so that the nearest administrations can decide, so that the shop of Mary remains viable, so that John can go to eat with the father-in-law on Sunday, I ask you to vote in favour of this GNP. Let us vote in favour of this GNP; let us vote in favour of people. And before we go down, I would like to show from here our support for the people who were attacked, persecuted and insulted yesterday in Valencia at the demonstration on 9 October. [[Applauds]] Valencia is a respectful city. The Valencia Country is a diverse, civic and peaceful territory. Yesterday, this government by omission broke the peace in our territory; it allowed persecution of democrats, fascist symbolism and genuine Nazi hunts in full daylight. No more impunity. We call for the immediate cessation of the government delegate. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u50	In defence of the amendments made by your groups, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, Mrs Bosaho Gori intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The Joint Parliamentary Group brings us to plenary this afternoon a non-legislative proposal for the amendment of the law on the liberalization of business hours. We agree with your group on the issue of this liberalization that is further complicated from the Royal Decree Law 20/2012, of 13 July, and article seven of Law 18/2014, of urgent measures for competitiveness. Considering that most of the concentrations of active workers take place in large cities, this regulation will affect to a greater extent the number of workers and their families, from which they will stay away on Sundays and holidays just when the breaks are foreseen in school hours. Thus, the impossibility of consolidating family and work life from irrational hours and days is dedicated to thinking only about the greatest increase in productivity. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to look a little further into the legislative process and ask, what consequences do these measures have on the concrete and daily lives of workers in this country? Moreover, what consequences does it have for this country to subject parents such as those who are not yet, to irrational schedules? First, those who are not yet are discouraged from having children because they do not have time to care for them. Secondly, birth rates will therefore decrease and are already doing so. Thirdly, where an ageing country called Spain is following its ageing process, 18.4% of the total population of people over 65 years of age are obviously older people. According to the census of the National Institute of Statistics, in 2066 there will be more than 14 million people, according to forecasts. We ask ourselves: Where is the young population who will work to pay their pensions? If our policies are now short-term and do not look beyond to ensure childhood, we will have a serious problem in the future. A childhood that grows up without its parents is much more exposed to health problems, eating problems, family problems, school failure, violence, among others. Ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to reconcile work and family life by working in shops that open their doors at nine o'clock in the morning and close them at ten o'clock in the evening, including Sundays and holidays. The Commission of the European Union warns of the problems of work and family reconciliation in its report for the same year 2017. On the other hand, the Arhoe report of this same year 2017, prepared by the National Commission for the rationalization of Spanish schedules, alarms about the consequences of the lack of family and work reconciliation and says that 69% of the population is aware that they spend less time than they need with their children. In our Parliamentary Group, Unite Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, we have great concern about work and family reconciliation, so we have also presented various initiatives in different autonomous parliaments. In this regard, a proposal has been put forward right here in the Congress of Deputies for the establishment of equal and non-transferable maternity and paternity permits. We have also tabled an amendment to add to the GNP of Compromís, so that if any holiday or Sunday has to be opened, this is done by staff hired to do so and not by the same person who has already been working throughout the week. This will allow minimum family and work linkage and reconciliation for parents and their children. Ladies and gentlemen, the compromises and the compromise must be backed by all the political groups present in this House with a vision for the future. It is necessary to reconcile the working hours and the personal lives of the workers, as you, ladies and gentlemen, yourselves, in this House. How many of you have children? How many spend enough time with them? What would you say if you were asked this question to your children? From our parliamentary group we are determined to do so. Working hours and personal life can and must be reconciled. We will vote in favour of this GNP and express our full agreement to repeal the corresponding articles of Law 1/2014 and Royal Decree 20/2012, liberalizing business hours that affect work and family reconciliation. Finally, as our colleagues put it...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u52	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u53	... Raquel Huerta and Emilio Delgado, since their publication on family and work reconciliation last September, Eurostat reports point to the situation of women in the labour market and the few policies aimed at ensuring the care of minors or dependents, as well as the inequality in the distribution of such care, as some of the elements that make us one of the worst countries in Europe in terms of work and family reconciliation. What are we going to do to change this situation? This is our chance. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u54	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Botella Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u55	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. With regard to this non-law proposal for Compromís, I would like to highlight and recall that Law 1/2004, on Commercial Schedules, to which it refers, was adopted by a socialist government, a law to which, for the second time in three months, Compromís wishes to return, since last June 27th, he presented this same non-law proposal in the Committee on Economic Affairs, adopting a compromise amendment between the different groups. It is a decision - it would be missing more - of each proposing group how to use their times and their turn of initiatives, but let it be clear that at the moment the Government of the People's Party has already been urged, we have already urged you with our support to amend article 5 of the 1/2004 Law of Commercial Schedules precisely to prevent the municipalities being automatically imposed what are called areas of great tourist influx. We have also urged you to facilitate that the municipalities that had already had such an imposition have a mechanism of revocation before the relevant authorities, which are not other than the autonomous communities, as the proponent has very well defended. And finally - and I would like to emphasise this - in the amendment that we tabled, which was adopted by all groups in a compromise, we made a great deal of emphasis on promoting a plan against labour exploitation in the commercial sector. What the Socialist Group is not going to lend itself to, ladies and gentlemen - and I want to make it clear - is a drip of GNP to patch up the 2004 Act, as the People's Party has already contributed a great deal over the years. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to go straight to the problem. At this point in 2017 the Socialist Parliamentary Group believes that problems need to be solved, and the problems do not lie in returning to the text of a 13-year-old law because Spanish consumers' society, businesses and lifestyles have changed radically and because we are in the midst of a technological revolution that has already driven the digital economy, I would say that virtually all our life is already digital; but the solution is also not to pervert the 2004 Act, as the People's Party has done throughout its legislature, based on re-centralisation and removal of competences, as has been done with the case of areas of great tourist influx and business hours. Law 1/2004, the original of 21 December 2004 adopted by the Socialist Government, was respectful of the powers of the autonomous communities, but the liberalizing decrees of the People's Party since 2012 have resulted in some setbacks and successive changes to it. The Socialist Group believes that it is a good thing to lift the foot of the ultra-liberalizing and intrusive accelerator of competences, but not because of a protectionist desire, as we believe in the proposal we are debating, but because in the 21st century we must look to the future and think of new regulations both of the State and of the autonomous communities, which take into account the new lifestyles of people, the rights of citizens as workers and citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the great European challenge right now is the digital single market, and here we are focusing on a small part of the problem of business hours. What needs to be looked at is that Spanish trade has the challenge of adapting to new formats, new consumer habits and preferences, and public policies must facilitate such modernisation, they must go the way of managing commercial innovation as is already being done in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, much work must be done to move forward in strategies in the face of the rapid changes that e-commerce is causing, and hence significant threats to retail trade. I will put a case to you: in the United States a recent report highlights that more than a dozen retail chains are in competition with creditors in 2017 due to the increase in e-commerce, and in this same line one of the most important companies in the United States has detected and raised to 13 000 the number of shops that will close its doors in 2018, triple that in 2016. As was said recently in an important report that came out on this subject, in the Amazon era consumers stay at home and shopping centers have two options: to renew or die. Ladies and gentlemen, our amendment is in favour of the areas of great tourist influx of the autonomous communities being agreed between these and the municipalities, which respect the competences, the new lifestyles of the citizens, bearing in mind the exponential rise of the digital economy. Finally, a reflection: our amendment looks to the future, also to the future of a new law, although this proposal does not only conform - and two already - with solutions from the past. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u56	Thank you very much. At the turn of the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u57	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. It should be noted that Article 5.5 of Law 1/2004 on Commercial Schedules stated that the determination of tourist areas, as well as the periods to which the application of the freedom of openness was limited, corresponded to each autonomous community for its respective territorial scope. However, later the Decree-Law 20/2012 amends this article by establishing a greater liberalization of business hours in those areas in which the tourist influx is greater and thus obliging to define to those cities with a large tourist influx the zones and the timetables in which the Sunday and holiday establishments would be opened, and it also provided that, in the event of non-compliance with this requirement, the liberalization of business hours would be given place throughout the city. That is, a decree, dated 20/2012, which, together with Law 18/2014, affects trade and tourism matters, which does not respect the competence of the autonomous communities in these matters, as in Euskadi, violating the competence of Article 10.27 of the Statute of Gernika, which establishes the competence of the Basque Government in matters of internal trade and its capacity to design the commercial policy it deems appropriate. In short, the ability of each autonomous community to design a trade policy in accordance with the socio-economic reality of its territory was clearly obvious. Consumption habits are forms of social behavior that are also justified by the commercial typologies that exist at each time and place. They are behaviour patterns that are concrete through existing establishments. The way in which these establishments operate, of which timetables are a key element, has a direct impact on the way of life of citizens and also on the distribution of household expenditure pie among the different types of establishments. In this respect, it must be said that business hours are not neutral in terms of the possibilities for development and application in the different business formats. Its regulation is the response to a trend of demand for consumption and its orientation in one direction or another is a potential instrument to transform the commercial structure, the way of life, the kinetic characteristics of urban spaces. That is why each territory is the most suitable to know this socio-economic reality with its new trends, and that is why it should also be each autonomous community that can regulate these matters. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u58	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u59	Business hours have an economic and sociological dimension because they affect the structure of the sector, mobility, leisure, tourism, the way of life, and of course they are also the reflection of tensions arising from the debates around this concept that are generated, such as the reconciliation of family life or working time, dimensions that must also be attended to. We would like to understand that the amendments were made in its day through the above-mentioned decrees for the commercial sector to benefit from tourism, a sector rising in times of crisis, but for this to happen there is no need for laws for the autonomous communities to apply exclusively criteria established by the State invading competences, but dialogue and consensus. We understand that all the changes made so far may be contrary to the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, which has repeatedly stated that the State, in the exercise of its basic powers, cannot exhaust the regulation of a particular subject by leaving without regulatory space the autonomous communities with competence in the matter. We are faced with a non-law proposal that seeks to amend a law and its subsequent amendments, but we also understand that we should look beyond, towards the future, with public policies that boost local development that boost competitiveness in this sector in order to generate wealth and create sustainable and quality employment in an increasingly competitive and professionalized globalized scenario, in which consumption habits have changed and where quality in both the product and the service are increasingly determining in the choice of purchase and therefore in the achievement of results. Since there is an amendment that we do not know whether it is going to be accepted or not, we will also wait to see our position, since the same speaks of the obligation to hire, and it seems rather intended for the large companies that are supposed not to hire or abuse the hirings. It should also be borne in mind that when we talk about commercial establishments, we talk about individual entrepreneurs who are also being forced to hire an additional person when we do not know their personal, work and economic circumstances, which will determine their choice when it comes to hiring, matching their working life and any other. As you said, Mrs Sorlí, with this GNP it will be the autonomous communities that set the timetables and can negotiate according to their circumstances. It would therefore also be difficult for us to understand the imposition of this amendment if it is the autonomous communities that negotiate and regulate this issue. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u60	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Sorlí, you bring us a GNP in which you are expressly concerned about two things. There is a third that they do not mention, but fortunately it has appeared in the intervention, and there is another that they do not care at all and that appears in a very surprising way also in the intervention, and there is like an emotional environment that permeates everything. Let's start with the express concerns, which are two. The first is to protect autonomous and municipal competences. Little has to be said about this. Law 1/2004 on business hours is enacted in the exercise of exclusive powers of the State with regard to the bases for the management of economic activity. Article 149.1.13 is recognized.a You like some articles and others do not; you like 5.4, which gives competences, another that sets certain limits to unify those competences, to have a certain homogeneity of criteria, but I think that makes little sense. In any case, we want to make it very clear that we are in favour of the unification of criteria. We are in integrated national and international markets, so it does not make much sense to fragment the market with local restrictions. This localist view of trade is absolutely obsolete. Their second concern in the GNP, which has disappeared somewhat in the presentation, is the workers. They have said, indeed, that they are concerned that having to work more Sundays - assuming they are the ones who have to work - causes problems of reconciliation of their family and work life. We insist, it is well that you worry about it. We are not only concerned, but we have been adopting measures in that direction. As for the workers, there are a couple of reports with which I would like to dispel your doubts. The first is that AFI, International Financial Analysts, is studying the effects of the liberalization of hours in the Community of Madrid, which, as you know, is the only one that has liberalised them in general. Experience does not seem to have been a cataclysm in that sense. In fact, in the period under review, from 2012 to 2016, there is an increase in commercial transactions of EUR 2682 million. I insist, it is an increase; it is not a transfer of trade from one trade to another, but an increase in pie for all trades. There has been an additional raise of 1107 million, but above all there has been an increase of 15 500 jobs due to this increase in activity. It is difficult to think that a measure is bad for employment when it creates employment, but it is also that the former National Competition Commission expressly stated in a report that liberalisation of opening hours could reduce costs and generate more jobs and/or higher real wages. I said that there is a collective for which you have completely disinterested, which are consumers. You have maintained your concern about the family and work reconciliation of the trade workers - which, I insist, is very good - but you have completely disconstrued the work and family reconciliation of the workers as a whole when they act as consumers, and that is wrong. The restrictive measures - also following the report I was telling them - have a direct effect on the consumer economy. Liberalisation in the period we have said has led to a direct savings of almost EUR 3 billion and a savings of EUR 1030 million for savings in time. If you do not like this report I have another; this is from the Catalan Competition Authority, following a participatory process that opened the City of Barcelona to define the model of business schedules; and it is positioned in favor of freedom. There is one aspect that you have Olympicly overlooked - the PSOE partner has rightly recalled - that is electronic commerce. E-commerce is a particularly serious threat to small-scale commerce and time-limits. It does so by limiting the competitive advantage of small-scale commerce due to the proximity or knowledge of the product it offers, and by limiting its time-limits they are directly tilting the consumer towards digital commerce. Ladies and gentlemen, all you have said about consumers is that Sundays are not to buy - Mayor Ribó and you have said - but I do not think that consumers intend to follow your guide. Therefore, if they limit business hours they will clearly favour digital commerce. In short, ladies and gentlemen, your proposal harms workers because it prevents them from creating more jobs...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u62	Mr. Navarro, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u63	I'm done, Madam President. ... prevents real wages from growing, harms consumers but, above all, harms small businesses, which leave them defenceless in the face of competition from online commerce. Ladies and gentlemen, in your GNP, the old fear of free trade, the longings of closed societies are flattered, but we want more open and prosperous societies because in this globalised world trying to put borders is to stay behind. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u64	Mr Blasco Marqués has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u65	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking last in my case will lead me to say that I will not be preparing the speeches again because it is better to answer them, it is more agile for the debate and more illustrative. Mrs. Sorlí and Mrs. Bosaho, what country do you live in? They come out here again and again saying that you have to be with people or with power. There goes that; with people or with power. Do you think that defending power this party has won the elections for seven or eight years and aspires to have eleven million votes? Or do we earn people's trust? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] There's a gentleman on the Podemos bench who makes me like this, does that mean there's ten million rich Spaniards? That there are ten million powerful Spaniards who say we are going to vote for the People's Party that will then annoy us? [[move your fingers in the hand, pointing at money.]] [[Rumors]] They don't know which country they live in, they're still in their world. [[Applauds]] They've hit the roof with their five million votes, which I hope they're going to fall free. [[Applauds]] Besides, with your argument I'm going to go to my house and I'm going to tell my wife, who's a nurse, that work on Saturdays and Sundays is over. There governs the PSOE and, therefore, I suppose you will understand that I want to eat paella with my children and nephews on Saturdays. I know cops - whom I take advantage of to pay tribute to them, just like the Civil Guard - and I have waiters friends who work when they work. [[Applauds]] Those who live in areas of special tourist influx, where there are cruise ships on which hundreds of thousands of people come, will have to work when those people come. Or are you pretending to close the Benidorm shops and the bars and restaurants in Marbella, Madrid or Teruel? I'm going to talk about my city, I'm going to talk about my book. In Teruel twenty years ago one could not have a coffee on Sunday morning or buy Saturday afternoon because it was closed. Entrepreneurs told me it was a social achievement to have the business closed, but those who said that have closed, and those who woke up and opened business today are open, so it can be said that my city is today a tourist city. What country do you live in? In addition, the proposer is a group of the Valencian Community, but as I said in the Commission, and again today, you bring here an initiative that is radically contrary to the agreement that your Socialist and Compromis Government has signed with the Government of Spain. There is a bilateral agreement between the two governments which defends quite the opposite of what you defend, and they undertake to maintain as areas of great tourist influx those which had such consideration prior to the entry into force of the autonomous decree, but now they are asking for the possibility of revoking those agreements by the municipalities. The Valencian Government of Ximo Puig and Mónica Oltra undertakes to amend its legislative text in order to be in line with the special schedule set out in the law, which was also from Zapatero. Therefore at the end or they come here without knowing what they come to or do not speak to their government or, worse, they may just come here to try to repeal those precepts or provisions that benefit the Spaniards, but which they proposed a government of the People's Party. In short, they end up harming the Spaniards. Mrs Sorlí, the best way to reconcile family and work life is to have a job, because if a Spanish or Spanish citizen, a worker is unemployed, at home, there is no problem of conciliation, and the only sure thing here is that when the People's Party rules people find employment and when you or those of the Left parliamentary arch come, the Spaniards lose their jobs. [[Applauds]] And now - I'm finishing up, President. Now I have almost enough time - which has been bearing fruit for three or four years - for the policies of the People's Party and the Spanish people to find employment, we are waiting here in Parliament to talk about wage increases, as the Minister of Employment has said, of reconciling the family and working life of those who have jobs, and to talk about growth because when there is poverty - which is what you govern - we cannot talk about reconciling family and working life. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u66	I ask Mrs Sorlí Fresquet whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled by her group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u67	Let's work on a compromise text.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u68	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on the Impulse and Development of the AUTOMOUS VEHICLE. [[File number 162/000451]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u69	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group on the impulse and development of the autonomous vehicle. For the presentation of the initiative and the amendment tabled, Mr García Aegean has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. With this non-law proposal we come to talk to you about the future, to talk to you about something that is coming and that is already being taken very seriously in some countries. [[The Lord]] And it's that throughout history technology has always been ahead of the legislation, and in many cases we're seeing how it is. Today we have the opportunity, at least on this subject, to break that dynamic, to make the law, the legislation, what we do in this House go at the same pace as what technology is developing and the citizens are asking outside this House. Ford said when he developed the first car that people on the street, people in his shop didn't ask for cars, but for faster horses, and that's why the car crash made slow or fast horses forget as a means of transport. A long walk begins with the first step and therefore the People's Parliamentary Group intends to take a giant step that turns Spain into a world leader to welcome the tests, to welcome the development and to be an example to follow in everything that has to do with the vehicle and autonomous driving. In addition, to achieve, adapt and enhance an auxiliary industry of small and medium-sized enterprises, a highly innovative automotive industry associated with the autonomous vehicle. This is what we are discussing today and this is what we can start to get or continue to do today. It must be borne in mind that quality employment does not come out of the direct intervention of the rulers. We have heard on many occasions how well-trained and well-prepared people in our country have had to go out to find a job, but quality employment, which is in our hands to empower, is born and grows around tractor sectors such as this, as is the case with technological development. The autonomous vehicle will not only need assembly chains and not only need assembly, it will also need experts in big data, programmers, software developers, artificial intelligence engineers and sensor and integrator developers. So when our young people go out, they are not hired by foreign governments, but by highly innovative companies that have been born and grown under certain conditions, which we believe can occur in the case of the development of the autonomous vehicle. An autonomous vehicle as you know is a car without a driver, and depending on the level of autonomy it has adapts to the circumstances of the track, speed limits, pedestrians, obstacles, weather conditions, etc., and allows to relegate the main figure of the driver almost to a mere passenger at the highest levels of automation, whose only function is to communicate the direction to which one wants to reach and the level of driving that we must develop. We are therefore faced with a new method of transport which has nothing to do with the vehicle of controls which has so far been known. We believe that the autonomous car will mark a turning point in the automotive industry, because already in Spain there are many companies that compete to manufacture the first to approve it and allow it to circulate freely on our roads. The new LeAF model, by Nissan, which already incorporates an autonomous driving mode, was recently introduced for a couple of examples. Renault is also ready to incorporate this technology, etc. In some European Union countries such as France, self-contained vehicles have also recently been integrated into traffic flows. In Britain there are no legal barriers to testing cars of this type on public streets, but the Government has made it clear that in order for these cars to move freely in the future, road and traffic control rules will have to be changed. Sweden, for example, has also put in place the laws necessary for a thousand autonomous vehicles to be able to transit by public road in 2017. And in the United States, the first law that removes obstacles to the implementation of autonomous driving was passed on October 4 in a consensual manner between Republicans and Democrats. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in Spain it is in our hands to be able to work together with the Government to ensure world leadership and to be a reference in the incorporation of the autonomous vehicle into our roads. The Directorate-General for Traffic announced in 2015 a new regulatory framework for autonomous vehicle manufacturers, technology, universities and consortia to participate in research projects in order to test their cars on certain routes. However, this measure does not imply the total legalisation of the autonomous vehicle, since it is not yet authorised for use by individuals, the population and the general public. Those benefits that are being generated in our universities, in our technological centres and in our society cannot yet reach the general public. We must therefore continue to deepen this line, and today is a good time to support this initiative. In addition, in February of this year the Director General of Traffic has already advanced that the Directorate General of Traffic will elaborate, before the end of the legislature, a new strategic plan of the vehicle of the 21st century so that the arrival of the autonomous car to the Spanish roads, as well as the connected car, is a reality. What does seem to come to the fore in the near future is this level of automation known as level 3, which integrates vehicles capable of travelling autonomously, but under the supervision of the driver. The driver is no longer a mere passenger. In Spain, the PSA Peugeot Citroën prototype was already tested in 2016, which travelled almost 600 kilometres between Vigo and Madrid, and it is expected that this prototype of autonomous driving for the general public will begin to be marketed in 2018. The marketing of these autonomous vehicles, this technological breakthrough, this change of model in general mobility also brings with it legal changes that we must address, and that we have an obligation to debate to lay the foundations in this House, legislative changes in civil liability, changes in traffic rules and even changes in road infrastructure, such as signage. In Spain, for example, it is mandatory to drive your hands while driving, which should change with the introduction of the electric vehicle. The cars of the future will not have these elements. Liability to third parties can no longer be exclusive and in cases of high automation it cannot be even partial to the driver of the vehicle, since the decision-making capacity will no longer be linked to the driver, but will be entirely in the hands of the vehicle itself. Therefore the manufacturer and designer will have much to say about it. In short, the main obstacles we are going to encounter in the future for the full implementation of autonomous vehicles are not the technological limitations, but the socio-political, legal, regulatory, infrastructure and commitment factors that must be undertaken. We must have an adequate legal framework to allow the renewal and replacement of the old laws by new ones and lay the groundwork for the first 100 per cent autonomous vehicles to be completely safe, and be able to move freely along the country's roads. For all this, I call for the support of this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u71	Thank you very much, Mr García Aegean. In order to defend the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group is speaking, which will also fix a position on this occasion, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are talking on this agenda item about what has been called the new era of unmanned and automated transport, Nertra, which responds to the great, shocking and transcendental technological changes for the automation of traffic. It is an initiative that addresses an issue that will affect the safety of our roads and the immediate future of transport, as the arrival of so-called self-contained vehicles is approaching, and therefore measures such as those intended to be promoted by this GNP are essential to facilitate and establish an appropriate legal framework to address the major security, mobility and sustainability challenges. As has just been recalled in Spain, at the level of the General Administration of the State, the General Directorate of Traffic is developing activities, programs and applications to respond to this revolution of intelligent mobility, as well as its digital platform DGT 3.0, which will be fully operational next year, which will mean a great advance for the connected car to be fully integrated into the improvement of traffic management and road safety; but this afternoon we talk about the autonomous car, which in addition to being connected will allow the driver to travel in the vehicle without being left on the road. At the Forum, we consider the parliamentary call for the Government to respond to the concerns arising from the delay in the adaptation of the regulations and from the lack of concordance that has already been pointed out in the important days held this year in León by Aursi, a world organization with very good implementation in Spain that promotes the development of the market for unmanned and robotic transport systems, but we also believe that the Government must focus on stimulating and supporting Spanish communities, associations, entities, groups and universities that investigate and develop the systems of unmanned vehicles, as well as promoting the construction in our country of experimental facilities and circuits to accelerate the technologicalization of the roads, in order to collaborate in the great opportunities for the transport of the future that are already opening up, and for which Spain and Spanish engineering are very well positioned. We need to help them to retain the great talent we have in our companies and universities; hence we have tabled an amendment that reflects that particular aspect. We also echo - and it would be useful for the Government to take note of this - the interesting and detailed indications that were made public at the 2017 Dialogue Conference held eight months ago, and that are, as its promoters describe, a contributing tool for training action and planning for technological change. It would be a pity to waste the good work and the route that a remarkable group of Spanish technical and university engineers are already tracing and developing with great enthusiasm. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u73	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Go ahead that of course we will support the initiative - it would be missing more, Compromís does not want to stay behind - but I sincerely believe that the People's Party had many options to present, and there is one that I would like to point out talking about transport. Every day we spend more than 100 million euros on fuels, which we have to import. That represents more than 40 billion a year of outgoing currencies, but I see that there is little interest in the electric car. I think it would be much more important and wise to push it forward; that is my opinion. It would even be much more patriotic in the sense that some like to say with those wristbands. It is more patriotic not to spend currency importing oil from certain countries. And it would be more patriotic to produce electricity from the sun. That Germany has forty times more power installed in photovoltaic energy than Spain would have to make us think, and I tell you honestly. Of course we will support the initiative - and you have convinced me - but you have spoken of a fundamental word: future. The future of transport inevitably passes through the electric car. That is why I would like the People's Party to present an initiative to encourage, support, boost and develop the electric car and the charging network. That would also boost our photovoltaic industry and our renewable energy industry, and save us a lot of currency. That, as I say, is very patriotic. It would also help us to comply with climate change agreements and CO2 emissions. I insist that we vote in favour, but I would like you to take this out once and for all. I don't want to leave here without showing my absolute revulsion and disgust at the images we saw yesterday in Valencia. From the tablet...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u75	Mr. Baldoví, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u76	In Compromís we are absolutely tired of images that are repeated too many times. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Clemente Giménez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have to say that it is clear that the initiative brought to the debate this afternoon requires a priority and urgent legislative effort. [[Rumors]] I must also say that the conservative party is not going to tell us that it is the party of the future...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u79	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u80	...allow me with all the affection I doubt at least. It is clear that if there is a party that defends innovation, R+D+i, a new sustainable productive model based on the knowledge industry and that generates quality and highly qualified employment that is Citizens. With this initiative I sincerely hope that it will not pass as with the expected legislation on the civilian use of RPA, commonly called drones, or as happened on March 7th in the Committee on Economics, Industry and Competitiveness, in which it was approved with 34 votes in favour and 2 abstentions the non-law proposal on measures for the deepening and further development of the ecosystem of startups, which was proposed by our group. If as on so many other occasions the Government continues to drag its feet and does nothing, from Citizens we will present laws that collect all these measures and solutions for the business fabric and that civil society demands. In the case of this non-legislative proposal, which we obviously agree with in philosophy or in the object it seeks, I sincerely hope that it will not be left on wet paper, so we have tabled an amendment that improves it technically, and I humbly hope that it will be accepted by your group. In any serious debate on automated mobility we must talk about the 1968 Vienna Convention. The proponent previously mentioned that the current legislation does not allow the use of it by the particular user. It is precisely in Spain's role that it has signed the Vienna Convention but has not ratified it, where we have a legal space to be the most innovative in Europe. He has previously also told us that the driver is no longer a person, but is the system itself. In order to allow these functions already in 2016 in that Vienna Convention, some amendments were tabled. The working groups consider that this amendment to Article 8 makes it perfectly possible to reach level 4 of automation, but we believe that in Spain we are faced with a unique opportunity precisely because of this circumstance. The economic-social benefits are obvious, we are not going to talk about it, even about reducing the damage and what it entails, but we must make a serious and rigorous legislative effort to reach level 5. That Spain has signed that convention but has not ratified it is an opportunity that we cannot let go. You have said that some companies have the ability at the hardware level to get autonomous driving, they have it in beta mode or test mode, simply because of that corset which means this existing legislation in Spain, but despite this they remain at level 3, for example, a known Californian brand of electric vehicles or the imminent arrival of the flagship of another known German brand. We therefore agree that a new legal definition, a new flexible, evolutionary and easily verifiable framework is required in cases where the vehicle system is responsible for that function of the driver. We cannot create laws that are born dead and obsolete. That is why we need a serious, rigorous and deep legislative effort that this Government has not yet demonstrated. It has very complex technical implications and even ethical dilemmas. He has previously referred to the United States regulations, and one of the complications he has - he said that on 4 October they agreed Republicans and Democrats - is that it is not necessary to legislate on who is responsible for the artificial intelligence of the car. In February of this year my colleague Fernando, spokesperson for Fomento, and I said in an article that the legislative challenge we are going to have is very deep and complicated, since we should legislate even the algorithms that make those decisions. [[Show a document]] To give an example: imagine a car going autonomously, the driver is the system, but the passenger goes unconscious because he has suffered a heart attack and is on his way from the hospital. The front car makes a stranger, exits the curve and on the exit path, for example, in a bank there is a woman with a cart and a baby. The computer decides whether to keep track and run over that family or try to do another evasive maneuver putting the owner of the vehicle at risk. In other sectors of Europe, that ethical dilemma is the one that most needs a deep study on our part. This is precisely the example I ask you to reflect, ladies and gentlemen. We are presented with a unique opportunity that my group has been working on for a long time. We believe that it is not enough with an alignment GNP and that it is brought here to fulfil the dossier, we believe that this requires a serious, rigorous study and even a presentation, a subcommittee for experts to reveal to us the state of the art and we can put ourselves at the forefront of Europe in terms of automated mobility. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u81	Thank you very much, Mr Clemente. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Luis Bail has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u82	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be denied that, for the time it is and for the day we are here, the situation has some irony. On the same day that the People's Party has a little bit in store about whether or not it suspends Catalonia's autonomy... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u83	Wait a minute, Mr. Luis. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u84	He said that he could have entered into the reform that is being done on the Traffic Law or in any of its aspects, but he has chosen the autonomous car, he has chosen to speak, in this state of whether or not he takes autonomy from a community, of legally recognizing it to the cars. In the end, they had more reason than those who spoke of the round nation believed. And not only that, but also the first GNP that was brought to this plenary was made by a person to whom both the spokespersons of the PP and those of my group, Don Jordi Solé Tura, of the PSUC, who in 1980 told us about the 130 billion pesetas that the Spanish Tourism Automobile Society, the SEAT, was receiving at that time by an ERE. I say that it is ironic that if, between the 1980s and 1985, we had a government that was committed to an industrial fabric, instead of selling it, today we could fully satisfy the demand made by the People's Party in its text, in that - and I quote - 'to develop measures to maintain the car industry in our country, facilitating its transition to the needs of the autonomous vehicle' and - I add - any other vehicle - Mr Baldoví has named the electric car - but we would finally have had a Spanish industry capable of solving the needs of the population and not just those of the industry. And it wasn't like that. We lost a company 100 percent Spanish and also innovative, and we still like what they propose. On the other hand, we believe that it is not a question of making ad hoc legislation as technological innovations are emerging, but of adapting the normative principles present in the legislative framework by accommodating the new characteristics, which is the function of the law, to protect against abuses that could occur in this case from economic power. And I take this opportunity to recall how complicated it seems and it is up to the Government to draw up a decree amending the composition of the Higher Traffic Council to update it in this reform of the Traffic Act, compared to the express decrees when certain companies request it. Let us also reflect on who we are legislating for. Above all, we want to amend the proposal because we understand that technology is not harmless, it is not innocent, in that the development we are promoting should not leave anyone behind. Let us talk about the gaps, that if we do not mention them, they will continue to deepen. In particular to ensure that the means taken in this process do not deepen the inequalities between the rural and urban environment - I live in a village and autonomous cars could not reach the places that are not marked -, among those who have the purchasing power and those who do not, among people with functional diversity or among those who suffer the digital divide. Finally, but not least, we believe that consideration should be given to the effect that this proposal would have on intensifying the automation of vehicles with regard to our dependence on raw materials, and on their scarcity if we have peaks of raw materials, and on who supplies these systems, whether in the end we are making our production system increasingly fragile or strengthening it. I'll finish with a technical point. It is true, as they say in their text, that in the last degree of automation of the car, if we get to see it, we will see cars without steering wheel. But do you know what will never be missing in a car? The brake, because no one would ever get into a vehicle that didn't have a brake, that couldn't stop. So understand that metaphor and please stop and talk, please, because we want dialogue. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Palacín Guarné has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u86	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing measures on the autonomous vehicle today, given the initiative put forward by the Group of the European People's Party, and this initiative, Mr García, initially also followed the model of not being overly committed and talking a little bit about good intentions, which is lawful but which the Socialists do not share; and I do not think you share it either, because they have self-amended the initial initiative. I am glad, I am really glad that you have amended and improved this initiative, which was also simple. My group will always agree to promote safer, more sustainable and more efficient mobility. We are not the only ones; all the actors involved in the sector, from the European Commission to the Patronage of Automotive, stress that this must be the natural evolution of the transport system. As I said, his initiative was mainly about providing a legal and legal framework for the arrival of this autonomous vehicle, something that is absolutely necessary, but that is short-lived with everything that this type of technology will entail. In this respect, the Socialist Group has tabled an amendment in addition to making progress in legal matters, also in areas which we consider important. The advancement of the autonomous vehicle depends heavily on the massive deployment of digital technologies and on the development of the electric vehicle technology, including the charging infrastructure on both cities and roads in our country; because the autonomous vehicle will be electric yes or yes. For this reason, we believe that this type of technology should be promoted by the Government and should not wait for change to happen without further delay. It would also help reduce CO2 emissions by helping to meet the commitments made by that country. The development and deployment of the 5G and Internet of Things, so that connectivity is fast and very high speed, will be essential for the operation of these types of vehicles. But in our country still, especially in many rural areas, we have shaded areas where there is not even regular telephone coverage. Nor do I want to go into assessing the situation of our country's road network, because we would not have excessive time. But if we want to develop this technology and be attractive so that our country is a power within the autonomous vehicle and that companies can come here to develop it, we must have these infrastructures that are absolutely necessary. Experts speak of a 2030 horizon for the total deployment of this vehicle. We understand that in order to secure and enhance employment in the automotive industry, a key sector in our country, the Government should facilitate the transition to this industry so that the production of vehicles can be carried out in Spain. Therefore, we must take advantage of these changes, which will come - you have talked about the future, a medium- and short-term future - and we must be able to generate the added value in all these production processes in our country; that the R & D+i of these processes be carried out in our country. We therefore repeatedly urge the Government to increase its budgetary effort in this crucial area in order to generate high-quality employment, not just in this sector, but in all. There are other aspects that generate or involve a number of barriers or bottlenecks that need to be taken into account or resolved before vehicles begin to travel on our roads, such as legal or criminal liability for the resolution of an accident, insurance coverage and types of insurance or cybersecurity. I believe that this point was taken into account in its initial initiative and perhaps the time chosen for the presentation of this initiative may relate to the news we have known as the Socialist Group in recent days, where DGT announced that it will shortly be presenting a regulation for the autonomous vehicle itself. If so, they could have brought the normative text here today to share and discuss it. Because if the autonomous vehicle is such an important issue for you as to present this initiative, it could also have had more presence on the automotive sector agenda, where it is only mentioned in two paragraphs. This is the only sectoral agenda presented within the strategic framework for industry. What is true is that, although briefly, on this agenda - as I said earlier - we are talking about the autonomous vehicle in a couple of paragraphs, but it says in particular that we need to boost the connected and ecological autonomous vehicle and boost innovation in the medium and short term, promoting initiatives for the technological development of electric vehicles. For this reason, we believe that there should be no objection by your group to accept our amendment, as it seeks to facilitate the adaptation of enterprises in the production system of autonomous vehicles to our scenario at fifteen or ten years' notice. It is also true that the self-amendment presented by your group greatly improves this initial initiative, but if they are ambitious and incorporate greater government budget support for R & D+i and a clear bet on the use of the electric vehicle, we will support them. A number of amendments have been tabled to this initiative, so we would like to know whether the proposing group intends to deal with any of them or not to accept them. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u87	Thank you very much, Mr Palacín. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u88	Sweep on, good afternoon. Thank you again. The autonomous vehicle initiative emerges as a response to the challenges facing transport in general, such as safety, congestion, continuous mobility and sustainability. From a scientific-technological perspective, the autonomous vehicle is hybridizing the most traditional industrial processes of one of the most complex value chains, such as the manufacture of a vehicle with the development of intelligent software and artificial intelligence algorithms, so autonomous vehicles will be really complex machines with important technological endowments, both industrial and digital. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u89	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u90	And it is that the impact of the autonomous vehicle goes beyond, because it also affects other dimensions subject to analysis, such as economic, industrial, social, ethical, legal, etc. From an economic and industrial dimension, the autonomous vehicle will offer the possibility of thinking about new products or services, as well as new business models. From a social dimension, the impact that the autonomous vehicle has on society arouses concerns and reflections about the redefinition of civil liability, the robotization of professions and the automation of manual processes. From the regulatory and regulatory dimension, we have to say that the new technological paradigms cause the laws to be adapted and, in the case of the autonomous vehicle, when talking about mobility and citizen use of a vehicle, we are talking about adapting, among other things, the Traffic Code and traffic regulations. Regulations, in addition, to enable vehicle manufacturers and other components to have a legislative environment that ensures an increase in self-contained vehicles in circulation, as this will enable more information to be available that will help to further improve this type of vehicle and its technology. Having said that, the Group of the European People's Party once again brings us a rather generic GNP as an instrument of impetus for the political action of the Government. It is not wrong to encourage all institutions, agents in general, with common guiding principles that are easy to share, but it does not seem very right to do so without concrete contributions that serve the purpose presented. I also say this because verbs are used in this GNP to promote and promote, without meeting specific objectives. At first glance, what we see are good intentions, but it seems that without any compromise, since, as I have said, the Government is not urged to take any concrete action, that is to say, it is not going to action, to the facts, and verbs are used as gifting and implementing, among others. It is good to drive the self-contained and connected vehicle industry, but this must lead to a series of actions in addition to industrial and even energy policy to support enabling technologies, such as 5G, artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, as well as initiatives that place the new digital industry associated with the self-contained vehicle in a competitive position in Europe and encourage the generation of even new professional profiles combining ICT and automotive, as well as the development of new business models related to the self-contained vehicle sector. Since there is no concrete proposal in its initiative but there seems to be good intentions, it will not be the Basque Group that blocks it, especially when for us the automotive sector is strategic for the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u91	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Finally, at the time of acceptance or rejection of the amendments tabled, I ask Mr García Eggea whether his group accepts any of the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u92	As an electric vehicle user, Mr. Baldoví and the rest I tell you that...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u93	Please answer whether or not you accept the amendments. That is what corresponds to this turn.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u94	We're preparing a transactional with input from everyone.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u95	We'll take that into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u96	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the implementation of the commitments to resettlement and resettlement of refugees, in accordance with the decisions taken by the European Union in 2015. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Elorza González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. We are presenting here today the motion resulting from the urgent inquiry that we defended fifteen days ago, which was defended by socialist Carlota Merchán, and from that defence, we have presented these five points of the motion that they seek, what they seek to guide, to help the Government to fulfil the commitment made by Spain to the European Union to host those 17 000 refugees who belong to our country; we also put in the motion a series of new criteria to eliminate, reduce those problems, those administrative, bureaucratic or legal difficulties on which the Government is supported as an excuse, and the other day the Minister of the Interior, Mr Zoido, did so. In this way, the contribution made by the Socialists is in a constructive tone so that the Government can actually fulfil the commitment, if at all with some delay, because today the Government of Spain has failed to fulfil those commitments - it is clear - with the refugees and has suspended that important subject in the life of society and of the people who are solidarity. [[The lady]] This failure of the Government affects us all, it is a failure that also shows the lack of sensitivity of the Government and the People's Party in the field of human rights. It is not the first time, it is also quite insensitive to other sufferings, to other more internal matters, more domestic consumption. In any case, we logically call on the Government today to fulfil its obligations to Europe and to the Spanish citizens themselves in the next twelve months. In Spain, we believe the Socialists, that there is a certain culture and tradition in relation to the right of asylum, with the reception of refugees, of the persecuted; this has been seen throughout the 20th century. We would like to recall the attitude, the position of the Government, the citizens and other institutions in the face of the problem of Bosnia or, going back further in time, the reception of many, several thousand Chileans who fled Chile at the stage of the dictatorship of Pinochet and other countries of Latin America and Central America, or the solidarity that in the face of war and conflict... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u98	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u99	...has had this country, citizenship and its governments in relation to the Sahara problem, with the Saharans. It is a culture of asylum which we have worked mainly from the banks of the left. It has been my turn to know the stories and experiences of my mistress, my girlfriend and my aunts who lived during the year and peak in a very hard refugee camp in the south of France, when they escaped, in 1939, from Catalonia at the end of the Civil War, so something has passed on to me my elders. We denounce, in any case, that already in June 2015 the Government of Spain, the Government of the People's Party, when thousands of people were lost on the routes of the Balkans seeking freedom, seeking a new life, already began to emphasize that the policy of quotas, which they were not going to accept, had to be reconsidered, and even Spain insisted on these international forums, in meetings of ministers, where the important thing was to strengthen the mechanisms for the return of refugees, and it was certainly very interested in reaching an agreement with Turkey to achieve the gendarme effect. European policy - because the Spanish policy cannot be dissociated from the European policy in general - has, as far as the right to asylum is concerned, been a failure and a great lie, because the effort has focused on raising the old borders of European countries, of States, and also raising fences and fences. Spain has been a country, in these two years and peaks, of which it has made less effort, beyond the conditioning of the economic crisis, and not of the lead platoon, but of the tail platoon. The truth is, this fills us with shame. It has also demonstrated, as I said, with this 2015 data, very little political will to fulfil the commitments to host refugees. In Europe there is a lukewarm reaction to this humanitarian crisis, to this reception of refugees, with changes in politics over the past two years, until we reach a position in which Europe has lost its founding spirit to this problem, the project of collective solidarity that characterized it more than twenty years ago. Each country, each State of Europe, has preferred to act according to its own interests, giving birth to nationalist or sometimes even ultranationalist positions, with unilateral measures such as border closure or with attitudes of rejection, for example, in the case of Hungary and some other country to the reception of refugees. In the end, in order not to run out of time, I would like to point out that the Socialist Group's motion, first of all, recalls that we cannot give up the commitment to accept the 17 000 refugees, the quota that we have, when today we have only complied with a little more than 11 % and the average of compliance with this quota, of that commitment in Europe, is close to 27 %. We therefore do not give up this compromise, and we believe that we must also give the Government a period of time, by accepting and negotiating some amendment which has been tabled in this case by Podemos. Secondly, we understand that the revision of the current selection criteria must be encouraged within the European Union, criteria which have proved to be ineffective and which are very unhumanitarian, and that the spectrum of countries from which we can also host refugees must be broadened... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u100	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u101	... and thus extend the refugee relocation programme, in particular with regard to the modification of the international protection rate. Thirdly, we believe that we must really work, activate the coordination and collaboration table with autonomous communities, municipalities, NGOs, etc. Fourthly, we believe that other legal avenues, practical routes, humanitarian corridors and improvements in the right of asylum should be put in place, by developing the regulation of the Law of 30 October 2009, which regulates the right of asylum, and by developing, on the initiative of a compromise amendment with Podemos, the procedure for applications for international protection in embassies and consulates. Finally, we believe that the demand for co-financing by NGOs should be eliminated from the programmes submitted to the call for grants in the area of integration of immigrants, as well as strengthening the mechanisms of the Asylum and Refugee Office. We will accept some compromise amendments from the Podemos Parliamentary Group. We are pleased that Citizens also want to support this motion, which is collective, and we share some of the compromise amendments, so, Madam President, we trust the adoption of this motion to continue with this tradition of asylum and refuge from our country, Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u102	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Bataller i Ruiz is speaking on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here for a breach of the government, a breach of its commitment to the European Union, a binding commitment to accommodate and relocate 17,337 people. Of this total commitment, as we know, the government, when the deadline for doing so expired, had only welcomed 11%, this is 1980. Of this total number of refugees, in the Valencian country we have only received a hundred, although we were prepared to accommodate 1,400 people, because - this is important to know - the government of Mr Rajoy prevented the disposition of the Consell de la Generalitat Valenciana, which had the resources ready to receive and care for 1,400 people when in the refugee camps - with this I came back last winter - people were dying cold or waiting for a medical treatment that did not arrive. And this situation continues, as the last case was a five-year-old girl who died last Sunday in Lesbos without being able to receive the assistance for which she had been transferred from Syria. We are experiencing a huge humanitarian crisis. Only last year more than 5000 people died in the Mediterranean, an average of fourteen people a day, if it is of interest to mediate in such a dramatic matter. More than 60 million displaced persons are fleeing war, violence and hunger in the world. The Asylum Act must adapt to new threats such as the risks that lead to climate refugees. Compromis has tabled some amendments. I am grateful for the willingness of the proposing group to accept them, and I hope that we will reach a compromise. On the one hand, we want the Government not only to be required to comply with its commitments, but also to be given a deadline of not more than six months. We want the autonomous communities to be allowed to cooperate in this task. We also take the opportunity to put our finger on the problem of hot returns for which Spain has recently been convicted by the Court of Human Rights, which says that this is a practice contrary to the European Convention. In short, we want to welcome, we want people to come and take refuge in our land, and we want when they reach the streets of our cities to find what they have always seen, open and solidarity streets, and not to find some streets in the possession of fascist gangs, as we saw yesterday in Valencia in the face of the disdain and inoperation of the government delegate we have in Valencia, Mr Moragues, who has not resigned and I still do not understand why it is not stopped. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u104	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group too, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the Socialist Group for having tabled this motion because, beyond the content on which I will then enter, it allows us to re-emphasize the petty and miserable attitude of the Minister of the Interior, the deplorable attitude of the whole Spanish Government; an attitude which has treated refugees as goods, which has forgotten them and abandoned them to their fate. The quota to which the Spanish State committed itself to receive in its territory was 17,331 persons; it was 1488 who finally and for two years had been able to receive, and it was not because there were no refugees and refugees, and it was not because there was no will of the autonomous communities to receive refugees and refugees. The Basque Autonomous Community itself expressed its willingness to host more than 1200 refugees, and it was the Minister of the Interior who stopped this possibility. But there is a parallel reality to this deplorable attitude of the Minister of the Interior towards refugees and refugees, and it is that while it prevents refugees and refugees from accessing the territory of the Spanish State, it sets fences, puts concertinas, lets thousands of deaths continue to happen in the Mediterranean and continues to practice hot deportations. That's miserable, that's disgusting. With regard to the motion, with the amendments you have indicated that you are going to collect, it seems to us that you are addressing a large part of the problem, but - take it as a contribution, not as a criticism - we think you forget some elements. It does not address why this agreement has not been implemented, what has been the political decision not to comply with it and the serious consequences of human rights violations it has entailed. Nor does it enter into the debate underlying the European model of non-compliance with human rights standards, but, for example, it is strict and severe with the requirement of compliance with financial standards in Greece. As time runs out, I end up with a question. On the anniversary of Che Guevara's death, I could have quoted Che Guevara himself as saying that solidarity is the tenderness of the peoples, but by bringing him closer to the earthly side of this Chamber I will quote the President of the Government. He already said that one thing is to be supportive and another is to be in exchange for nothing. - End of the date. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs Belarra Urteaga has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mrs Belarus, I ask you to be silent, please, because there is a murmur that makes it impossible for the speaker to be heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u107	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Karnelie Massiona, Baby Luza, Clemance Lelo, Dalloba, Aminatou, Pasience Mavungu, Merveille Dimona, Samuel, Prince, Aylan Kurdi, Galip Kurdi, Queen, Victor, Keita, Mohammed, Jennifer, Safi Siyap, Faris Khidir Ali, Sajida Ali, Asaho, Mohamed Januzi, Safi Siyap, Faris Khydr, Faisal Imran, Mamadou Konate, Noudhou Doumbia, Frederick Ofosu, Veronique, Talaat Abdulhamid, Hardi Ghafour, Bai Ahmed Kabia, Tarek Chowdhuri, Khalid Safi, Mohammed Eyman, Milet, Fatim Jawara, Muhammad Wisam, Samwarit, Emmanuel Chidi, Pope Ndiaye, Sheikh Ndiaye, Saliu Fall, Farhan, Gilead Mohamed, Mustaphad Jatta, Mohammed Mohammed Mohamed Alisam, Samhar, Samwarit, Emmanuel Alwan, Emmanuel Chidi, Cheik Ndiaye, Hani, Hani, Hanihud Masau, Salu All of them people who have lost their lives trying to reach the European Union or in transit to our borders. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, to name is not demagogic, to name is justice. [[Applauds]] What is not called, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, does not exist and today we can name these people because organizations like Walking Borders or United against Racism allow us, but many other people can't even name them. I know that it is much easier for the People's Party to look elsewhere and pretend that border deaths do not exist and to speak better about the reduction of arrivals in the central Mediterranean, without saying that 2016 has been the most deadly year since it was remembered. My group, and I in particular, are not going to make it easy for them; we are going to force them to respond, at least, to the decisions they make and which have very direct consequences, such as the death of thousands of innocent people on our borders. [[Applauds]] Last week the Minister of the Interior made an intervention, which I would describe between bureaucratic and hurtful, in which he filled out much of the time - because that can only be called filling out - detailing administrative procedures that are known to all. There was one interesting thing in his speech and he acknowledged that Spain has only offered Greece and Italy 3900 places for relocation and resettlement of the 17 000 to which we had committed two years ago. What does this mean? It means that it recognized that Spain had not welcomed an absolute lack of political will and an absolute inability of the Government of the People's Party to carry out the functions for which the rest of the citizens of our country chose them. The minister ended his speech with a stone phrase that was: Spain has fulfilled. Indeed, I share with him that Spain has fulfilled, but with the closure of legal and safe routes, with the construction of a fortress Europe that shames us all, it has fulfilled by giving oxygen balloons to the mafias who traffic with people, it has fulfilled by preventing the right of asylum in our country from being fulfilled and it has fulfilled by turning its back on thousands of children who migrate alone. We can say that Spain has complied with human rights violations thanks to you. Sincerely, Mrs Merchán and Mr Odón Elorza - who has been the one who defended the motion today - I think - and I say this to you with affection - that the Minister of the Interior and this irresponsible government who violates human rights did not deserve this slight reprimand, because little less than it was an earring, when what we are talking about is the lives of thousands of people who die in the Mediterranean. I believe that the least that Mr Zoido deserved was a reprobation as a minister for the systematic breach of his duties and commitments, because you know as well as I do that the People's Party government does not want to accept, wants immigrant refugees to come this way, does not want to comply with the right of asylum and does not want to comply with the decisions of the European Union. The People's Party is systematically outside the law and does not have the slightest political will to welcome refugees. Why, if not, would he offer 2500 seats when the municipalities and autonomous communities offered themselves from the very first moment to put on the table many more? I sincerely believe that migrant refugees, who are already our neighbours, those who are still waiting in Zaatari or those who have passed away at the borders, did not deserve to be given the same consent as last week. Still, we reach out to them. We are glad that you have accepted our amendments and encourage you to build together a host country, which I understand is what you and I want, a government that is truly committed to human rights and legality and to turning its back on the People's Party. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u108	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Mateu Istúriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Let me tell you that one comes here with the intervention studied and worked, but, of course, before the words poured out by the deputy Matute, qualifying the performance of the Minister of the Interior as petty and miserable in the treatment given to immigrants, I would like to remind you that this indignant, vile and offensive treatment against any human rights was carried out by your political group, Mr Matute, never condemning the murders of the terrorist band ETA and not treating as God commands the relatives and victims of them. [[Applauds]] That is to say, lessons in human rights and proper treatment of people, zero. The People's Party is the party that has been responsible for resolving these issues. Last week we were in a meeting with Danish parliamentarians and asked what the Spanish Government was doing to limit or stop immigration. I answered them very quickly and told them that the problem of immigration is one of those that the People's Party Government has on its agenda and that, of course, having sensitivity and humanity is not the privilege of the left-wing bench, as Mr Odon Elorza has said. According to what they were told, they were also told what policies or bases the People's Party Government was working on, which I will not repeat here for a short time. Spain - one of the things I told you - makes commitments to the European Union and fulfils them. On the subject of relocation, which you have criticized in this way, I must tell you that the 15,888 people to whom the Spanish Government has committed have not been able to come to Spain, but not because of the Spanish Government's lack of will and dialogue with the European institutions, in particular in this case with the Greek Asylum and Refugee Office, which has publicly acknowledged - the Minister said the other day - that they had not sent the profile recognition dossiers. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you are missing the truth; moreover, Minister Adamopoulos also congratulated the Spanish Government on the 500 more people in relocation they accepted in July 2015. One of the issues you raise in your motion is that we must continue to relocate to Spain, but that was already said by the minister the other day. Therefore, despite the legal deadline of 26 last month, Spain, as soon as Greece continues to send dossiers, will continue to accept to comply with our commitments. With regard to resettlement, Spain has fulfilled one hundred percent of the 1449 people's commitment. You have not yet arrived in Spain, ladies and gentlemen, as you well know. It is understandable that, in defense of their ideology, they try to criticize the Government of Spain for what it is doing. He's done it, but what's missing? That Turkey and Lebanon, where these people are coming from, send them to Spain, and we will, as always, be happy to fulfil our commitments. Mr. Odón Elorza said that there were excuses, which had not been met, which had been suspended by the Spanish Government in this task. I have to say, Mr Elorza, that we have done everything we can and that if we have not been able to relocate, resettlement of all the people I have mentioned to you has not been by default of the actions of the Spanish Government, but by default of the community structures and the lack of personnel to meet the needs and identify the people to come to Spain. Having entered the five points raised by the Socialist Group in the motion very quickly, I must say, on point 1 - I insist - that the Spanish Government will continue to receive people from the relocation as soon as Greece sends them to us. Secondly, we cannot dispense with the criteria laid down in the Council's decisions on international protection. We can't lower that profile for people who are in the resettlement program. It is a pure and harsh requirement of the Council's decisions and, in particular, of the provisions of Article 5 of the decisions and some other articles. As for the coordination table of the Government with the Autonomous Communities and the Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, you have not wanted to know what is happening. The last sectoral conference in September 2015 has already been activated. A single protocol of action has been established with these local entities and a local point of the autonomous communities has also been established to transfer it to local administrations to tell them where they need to be redeployed. The last table met in July and is now scheduled for one in October. As for the legal and effective ways, resettlement is the safest way for them to go to Spain, and the adoption of the regulations of Law 30/2009, Asylum and Subsidiary Protection, is already under way, as the minister said. Why? Because what we are going to do is wait for the reform of the SECA, the Common European Asylum System. Finally, the co-financing of NGOs. You have intentionally omitted an order of 2017 that eliminates the financing - I finish, Madam President - of 2% of NGO contributions and states that right now nothing else would be 0.25 %. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if the vote is taken by points, we will vote in this way; if not, I have to tell you that we will vote against for the reasons I have explained to you. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u111	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are presented for consideration with a motion on the degree of compliance with relocation and resettlement commitments in accordance with the 2015 Union decisions. This issue has already been the subject of numerous debates in this House and in this legislature, which makes it clear that it is one of the political priorities in the State and also in the Union, because we are faced with a humanitarian crisis that is also political and legal and even of our own values. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u112	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, the migration crises, both economic and refugee, collectively challenge us, as well as the European Union, conditioning their own project, and both in the relations between their partners and at home, as we are seeing in the last electoral processes. Political integration in the Union certainly requires that it has a migration policy and that we understand that Lesbos is also the frontier of all of us, because it is neither efficient nor effective for each state to nationalise common migration policies. Global problems require coordinated and collective solutions. In this context of the Union, a number of agreements were adopted in 2015 to deal with the refugee crisis which mainly aggrieved Greece and Italy; agreements which were to alleviate precisely and in solidarity the pressure which these two countries suffered as the Union's southern border; relocation agreements which were subsequently accompanied by resettlement agreements with Turkey; all agreements which were born - and must be remembered - with forceps, to the disdain of the members of the Union, showing the crisis of values which invades us, both of human and legal values, as a violation of the legal norms which we have given ourselves at local, regional and global level. And from those dusts now come these muds in the form of non-compliances of the agreed, singularly, I have to say, by Spain. We are not talking about gross breaches; we are talking about that in the relocation programme 2015-2017, the degree of compliance with transfers, according to the data offered to us by the minister in the previous session on the occasion of an inquiry, is not 11%, but 8% -1279 of 15,888-. The degree of compliance with relocations - not petitions - in resettlement programmes is 49% -704 of 1449, also according to the Minister's data on the day of the inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to demagogue about the refugee problem, but why is our degree of compliance with the Union's agreements so small and there are countries in the Union that have met almost 100 per cent of their commitments when the rules and procedures are the same for all? It is clear that something does not work in Spain's asylum policy, and not only with regard to the Union's resettlement and resettlement programmes, because the same applies to asylum applications outside the Union's programmes in Spain. Spain's position with regard to asylum seekers is so scarred that only 1% of the total Union-wide applications are received and only 31 out of every 100 and less than half are resolved favourably. In Spain there are 76 refugees per million, while the European average is 710 per million. That is why I was saying, ladies and gentlemen, that asylum policy does not work in Spain, and saying this is not demagogic, nor was it demagogic when we said that in Ceuta and Melilla the collective expulsions allowed by the Law on Citizen Security were a gateway to possible breaches of international rules for the protection of asylum seekers. This same month, the European Court of Human Rights has given us reason. There is a need for a procedure that develops the legal mandate to ensure that rejection at the border respects the right - as the European Court of Human Rights pointed out a few days ago - to individualized procedures and to the protection of persons in protective situations. We will soon have the opportunity to discuss this issue, since in the proposal for a law reforming the Law on Citizens' Security that the PNV submitted we introduced a proposal for the development of paragraph 2, of the additional tenth, of the Law on Aliens, in the sense of what was decided by the European Court of Human Rights. I shall now conclude, Madam President, by expressing our support for the motion. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u114	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, the world is not perfect. The People's Group was talking a moment ago about immigration, when what we have come to today is precisely about refugees and the right to asylum. We advocate a legal and orderly immigration, but it has nothing to do with the need to help people who are fleeing from places where there are war conflicts, from places where violence generates a lot of economy and a lot of inequality, from places where terrorism, failed States, increasing inequality and famine cause them to leave. We are talking about an international phenomenon, which must be taken into account by the international community because it affects the regions and the whole planet. If we solve the problems at source and help correct them, we will not be talking about whether a small percentage of a refugee quota is enough to have the ethics to look people clearly in the eye. When we talk about refugees, displaced persons and applicants, we are talking about 50 million people all over the world. Here we are talking about whether or not we have received 17,337, when there are 50 million people among displaced persons, refugees and asylum seekers. The countries from which they flee mainly are Syria, because of the conflicts that are taking place, and Afghanistan. And when we talk about the Mediterranean, we are not talking exactly about Spain, because we always have the temptation to criminalize our borders for that legal and orderly immigration that our State Security Forces and Bodies have to guarantee. I repeat that this has nothing to do with the reception policies of refugees who have to come to our country. If we look at the European border, if we look at the countries that come across the Mediterranean, we will realize that in Italy there would be 121 000 people, in Greece, 258 365 and in Spain only 1953 people have arrived crossing the Mediterranean this year. That is why, with regard to fulfilling the commitments, I want to say that it is the European Commission and its President, Jean-Claude Juncker, who are hurting all the States that the European Union has not been able to live up to at the moment. The number of 160,000 refugees we had to receive has not been met and we have remained at 28 000. As has been said here, in Spain the percentage has been much smaller, leaving us at a low 11%. I would like to make a brief reflection by finishing this speech. Obviously, we will support the motion because we understand that it is fair and because the European Commission has asked that the relocation of those who have to come to our country not stop on 26 September. If we have been inefficient administratively and have not done so well, we need to give more time to make those policies. I mean, the world isn't perfect, but the world does the people with the decisions we make. We can understand that freedom of movement must be shared in a space, we can all feel free and equal and live in a Schengen area, or we can understand that we do not like to be with people having that freedom of movement and dealing with everyone with their rights and suddenly voting and applying Brexit, or we can suddenly understand that 51% of the population of my autonomous community are foreigners. That is why today, on this day, I am very proud of those who are in the heart of the Catalan flag, the Spanish flag and the European flag. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u116	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Odón Elorza González whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u117	Yes, President. We've been trading with the Podemos Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u118	Thank you very much. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the abuse by the Government of the remedies of unconstitutionality to autonomous laws and the automatic suspension of autonomous provisions and rules provided for in Article 161.2 of the Constitution. [[Lords Baldoví, Candela and Bataller and Lady Solli]] [[File number 173/000047]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u119	We shall now proceed to the motion following an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví, Mr Candela and Mrs Bataller and Mrs Sorlí, on the abuse by the Government of the remedies for unconstitutionality to autonomous laws and the automatic suspension of autonomous provisions and rules provided for in Article 161.2 of the Constitution. Mr Candela Serna has the floor for the author group of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u120	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, last week we went up to this rostrum to ask Mr Catalá about an issue that we believe deserves the full attention of this House, which is the power of the Government to automatically suspend provisions and resolutions of the Autonomous Communities by recourse to the Constitutional Court. Today we find a government that systematically abuses its power to boycott the legislative activity of the autonomous communities. Mr Rajoy's government is perversely using its legal capabilities, giving them a use for which they are not intended. With this motion we have come to ask from Compromís to put order once and for all to our entire system of government, which is a system of multilevel government. We do so with a very concrete contribution to Article 161.2 of our Constitution, but we believe that it must be part of a broader debate that we hope will open soon. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to ask you to vote in favour of minimum measures to prevent the defence of the Autonomous Communities against the Government and to ask the Government to use the power provided for in Article 161.2 in a proportionate manner and, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Court, only in cases where irreparable harm or damage may occur if the provision or resolution is not suspended. We ask nothing more, just that: a proposal for minimums to avoid the malfunction of our democratic system. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, it is very good for you to invoke the Constitution over and over again, because it is the rule that guarantees the rights of all, but it would also be very good for you from time to time to read the full articles. For example, Article 2 of our Magna Charter provides, in fact, with all the pompousness of which Manuel Fraga was able, that the Constitution is based on the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards, but if you continue to read, in that same article it also says: and recognizes and guarantees the right of autonomy of the nationalities and regions that integrate it and solidarity between them. And I'm not staying here, I'm going to give you more examples, because I think you're lacking a restful reading of the Constitution. You know that your ineffable delegate from the government - to which I will refer for other reasons at the end - has been pleased to resort to most of the rules emanating from our Council of Education. For you it may have its logic, since article 3, paragraph 1, of our Constitution states that Spanish is the official Spanish language of the State, all Spaniards have the duty to know it and the right to use it, but if you read a little more, you would also read in paragraph 2 that the other Spanish languages - also Spanish - will also be official in the respective autonomous communities according to their Statutes. By the way, from a note of honor registration of Mr. Married, that of being in favour of including in the Law of the Parties the illegalization of forces that promote independence. Do you know what the Constitutional Court says, ladies and gentlemen, in its judgment 12/2008? Our system does not include a model of militant democracy that imposes adherence to the Constitution and the rest of the legal system. Do you know what the Constitutional Court is doing? Interpret the Constitution. Are you saying that the Constitution must be violated? And we continue with Mr Casado, Undersecretary of Communication - putting it there is already your business - who recently said, referring to a president and a vice president of an autonomous community, who could end up as Companies. What does this mean? That article 15 of the Constitution, which states that everyone has the right to life and to physical and moral integrity without under any circumstances being subjected to torture, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, should not be complied with? Is that what you're saying? [[A Member of Parliament: In prison]] [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, what has to be made clear in this country...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u121	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u122	Don't worry, I still have it. ... Once and for all and especially for the People's Party is that the Constitution and the laws are citizens' and not theirs. You cannot choose the part of our Magna Charter that you like best and forget about others, because you ultimately hold the government of this country. I'm done. Yesterday we lived in Valencia an attack on democracy, we lived an attack on our people, we lived an attack on the civic process and the lady, an unauthorized demonstration, because it seems that you can only guarantee the security of the State in some parts of the territory and in others not. [[Applauds]] [[A honourable Member: That's a lie!]] Nazis camping around Valencia, hunting people, beating journalists and beating peaceful people. We are a people of peace, dialogue and consensus, who are gaining their future, and we need and deserve this Parliament to send a message...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u123	Mr. Candela Serna, please go to the point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u124	Yeah, I'm done. We need a clear message; let us be told to that gentuza: We don't want you, we don't want you on our streets. [[Applauds]] And I'm done. I would like to thank all the groups, especially Citizens, for joining our institutional declaration of rejection of fascism and Nazism that we saw yesterday in Valencia. Unfortunately, the People's Party is not up to this country and does not condemn it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u125	Thank you very much. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u126	Thank you very much, President. We are presented for consideration with a motion on the use that the Government makes and should make of the power granted to it by 161.2 of the Constitution by challenging provisions and resolutions adopted by the organs of the autonomous communities and even a possible reform of the aforementioned constitutional precept to avoid their use for political purposes. We will support the motion, although the real problem of this precept is not so much the same nor the use made of it by the Government, which also, but the reinterpretation made of it by the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court. This is the real problem, and other derivatives that we will expose. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution establishes an identity of value between ordinary and state laws and autonomous laws for the purposes of their justiciability. Both laws are an expression of the democratic principle of the will of the people freely formed within the representative chambers through public debate, both laws, also the autonomous and the state, equally satisfy the principles of legality and reservation of law, as stated in 1981 by the Constitutional Court, and both, state and autonomous laws, enjoy the same presumption of legitimacy, neither its validity nor its effectiveness can be questioned nor conditioned except by the Constitutional Court. For this reason, constitutionally, the privilege of justiciability of state and autonomous laws is identical, and this is provided for in article 161.1 (a) in relation to 153 (a) and 163, all of which are contained in the Constitution. However, and this is the problem, the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court breaks this constitutional asymmetry between the two laws by allowing the automatic suspension of an autonomous law when the Government claims it by appealing it to the court. Article 30 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court reinterprets article 161.2 of the Constitution, and what was provided for in it for the suspension of regulatory provisions and administrative acts, when invoked by the Government, extends it to provisions of law of the autonomous parliaments, whose regulation is found in paragraph 1 of 162 and not in paragraph 2 which provides for this automatic suspension. And what reason is there for the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court to equate autonomous laws for the purposes of justiciability with autonomous regulatory provisions rather than state laws, when they express, as I said, the same democratic principle and when they equally comply with the principles of legality and reservation of law and when they enjoy the same presumption of legitimacy as regards validity and effectiveness? Article 161.1(a), as I said, is also reinforced in the same Constitution by 163, when it provides that questions of constitutionality against state or autonomous laws shall in no case be suspensive of them. The disguise that the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court performs in the justiciability of autonomous laws also falls within that of the legitimate ones that the Constitution establishes in order to bring remedies against those autonomous and state laws. Thus, 162.1.(a) of the Constitution legitimates to appeal, inter alia, to the President of the Government, but not to the Government, and paragraph 2 of 161 empowers to appeal to the Government and acts of the Autonomous Communities, but not to the President, and also allows the Government to invoke the automatic suspension of these infra-legal provisions. Well, what does the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court do in its article 30? First, it equates autonomous laws with autonomous infra-legal provisions. But the only person entitled to appeal against the laws is the President of the Government and the latter cannot ask for their suspension because it is not permitted by the Constitution, because this is the exclusive power of the Government. Secondly, the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court states that the Government may avail itself of its power to claim automatic suspension not of a regulatory provision, but of an autonomous law, if it challenges it, which is not provided for in the Constitution, through the President of the Government. Finally, a genuine cabriola retorting to the same Constitution, combining the power of the President to appeal against laws with the power of the Government to cause the suspension of infra-legal provisions. This is the real problem of article 161.2, the reinterpretation made of it by article 30 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, which seeks, beyond what the Constitution says, a legal and political effect of all known in the automatic suspension of autonomous laws appealed by the Government. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today, Compromís presents to us an initiative that aims to limit or at least moderate the government's ability to bring unconstitutional resources and positive conflicts of jurisdiction over autonomous laws. Gentlemen of Compromise, you are admirably timely in this initiative. They have been legitimizing the mass demolition of the institutions of Catalonia's self-government over the past few weeks, calling for an illegal referendum, talking about repression, political arrests and the police state, and you are bringing this initiative here today, precisely today, the day when our democracy has been at risk most clearly for forty years, the day when we are suffering the blow to our strongest democracy since 23rd, and bringing this initiative to us so that the Government will be even more moderated, even more!, in the exercise of its powers to defend our Constitution. [[Applauds]] They're admirably timely. You are talking about using a political criterion in the use of this kind of resources. I will tell you one thing: there is no more important political obligation for any government in any democratic country than to defend its Constitution against those who want to change it, forgetting what was the pact that gave birth to that Constitution. And I tell you more, it was a pact between all the Spanish citizens, it was no pact between territories and a central state, it was a pact between all the citizens, and if we want to change it we will change it among all the citizens, and not by those anti-democratic ways that we are seeing today in the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] The question that strikes me, Mr Candela, is to what interests are you serving today, to the interests of the Valencians, to the interests of all the Spaniards whom you represent, or to the interests of that absent nationalism, that the first thing you have done has been to fail to fulfil your obligations to devote a blow to our democracy? What interests do you represent? I believe these last ones. Let us start talking about facts, because the 1978 Constitution attributes to the Constitutional Court its role as the ultimate guarantor of the supremacy of our Constitution, ensuring respect for the territorial planning of power, as set out in the block of constitutionality. The attribution of this competence to the Constitutional Court lies in a perfect logic of any composite State; federal, I say more, if we stop from semantic ambiguities. These powers are similar to those of the Austrian Constitutional Court, the Italian Constitutional Court, the German Federal Constitutional Court. And you were talking about reading the entire Constitution. Of course you have to read it completely! And in our Constitution two principles are guaranteed: that of unity of the Spanish nation and that of autonomy of the communities that make up it on equal terms. And I tell you more, in other federal states, in other composite states, there are mechanisms for political control of autonomous laws by the government or by the federal or state chambers. This in our country doesn't exist. Are you prepared to establish, in a future constitutional reform, a second reading procedure, a return procedure, which would allow for some sort of control over that political capacity of the autonomous communities? I ask you this, because right now there is no possibility of political control, nothing more than this judicial way of resorting to the Constitutional Court. Your Honor, let's keep talking about data; let's talk about the 2016 data collected in the Constitutional Court's memoir. Thirty-two constitutional appeals were lodged, 16 by the President of the Government against autonomous laws, 13 by Governments and autonomous parliaments against state laws and 3 by deputies and senators against other autonomous laws. There were 10 positive conflicts of competence, one promoted by the Government of the nation and 9 by autonomous Governments. Then I'll talk to you about the territorial litigation of your principals. In Catalonia we note that 4 laws of the State were appealed and the Government of the Generalitat raised 5 positive conflicts of competence. The State Government challenged 7 autonomous laws and raised a positive competition conflict. I do not know where the disproportion is; it seems that those who have more conflicts of competence are, in any case, the autonomous governments, claiming these powers for themselves. Do you know how many unconstitutionality remedies were raised in 2016 regarding Valencian autonomous legislation? You have to know. Do you know how many? One. Do you know who raised it? The Government of the Valencian Community in front of the State Budgets Act of the Government of Spain. One! It was presented by his Government, the Government of the Valencian Community, against the Government of the State. What do you want to moderate? If we moderate ourselves more, we completely nullify the judicial control capacity of that activity. I don't have much more time, though there would be much to talk about. It is true that there is a problem of defining competences that we will have to solve in a future constitutional reform, but not so. What you are pretending is something else, what you are pretending to be definitively burdening the rule of law, which is as much as burdening democracy, so I say to you that we are not going to vote for this initiative on three issues: because it is constitutionally unacceptable, factually cheating, as I have just shown, and politically, today - precisely today - more corrosive than ever with our rule of law and democracy. We'll vote no. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u129	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to begin the speech by sending encouragement and hugs to those who yesterday were attacked with complete impunity by fascist gangs on the streets of Valencia. [[Applauds]] The deputy of Citizens said that it is a bad time, that it is a very inopportune time to discuss this motion. Our group is going to support this motion, and it is going to support it because it believes that there is no more opportune moment in the seat of Spanish popular sovereignty to support a motion that is questioning the misuse of the Constitutional Court, a use that has de facto broken the balance mechanisms in the relationship between the central State and the autonomous communities. In other words, it is questioning the path that has brought us today to the most serious state crisis that we have experienced in forty years, which has been nothing other than the demolition of the mechanisms of balance between autonomous administrations and central administration by the abuse of the People's Party by going to the Constitutional Court as if it were a political court. [[Applauds]] Article 161.2 of the Spanish Constitution provides that the Executive has the right to challenge autonomous rules and that those rules, solely because they are contested by the Executive, are suspended for a minimum of five months. It is a prerogative that only the Executive has and that by its gravity is assumed that it is not to be used permanently, but presupposes a certain prudence. The Law on the Legal Regime of Public Administrations in section 141 already speaks of the necessary collaboration between the different administrations in what is and should be a possible federal-spirited tour of our Constitution. The reform of the Constitutional Court itself in 2000 already demanded, imposed the existence of bilateral commissions so that there would be negotiation and not imposition by only one party; that is, we are faced with a use that is required and that is supposed to be not abusive and discretionary, but the last resort, not a permanent mechanism of taxation with administrations that are of the opposite sign or with the votes that the government party does not like. I was able to say this a long time ago, several months ago, to the People's Party and I repeat it again: when the Constitutional Court is abused as a veto mechanism, the Spanish are not done a favour, neither is the Constitution or the Constitutional Court itself done a favour, what is done is that the arbitration work of the Constitutional Court is broken by turning it into a political court, but then it is delegitimized for the necessary arbitration work that we are now missing. [[Applauds]] Every pact, also the Constitutional Pact, is always a system of balances, of counterweights, and who breaks the balances breaks the pact, who breaks the counterweights breaks the pact. That is why you, when from the central government you have imposed through the so-called Montoro law, the law against municipal autonomy, that the relationship between the central government and the municipalities is asphyxiated, when you impose that all autonomous laws, all the autonomous rules that you do not like, not only break the balances of our state of autonomy, put at risk the very system of the state of autonomy. By breaking the balance, you break the Constitutional Pact and then you take your hands to your head by the result of that breach of the Pact. I'm going to give you some examples so we can see what we're talking about, not in numbers, in specific laws. When the Montoro law against the municipalities prevents, for example, the Madrid City Council, which puts the accounts in order, which settles the debt, from using part of its resources to invest in growth or in employment, you suffocate the relationship between local autonomy and the central government; when you resort to the Balearic law against animal abuse, when you resort to and suspend the law of the Valencian Courts intended to prevent the Senate from becoming a shelter of corrupt people, when you resort to the law of the Parliament of Catalonia to ban evictions, when you resort to the law of Andalusia, of the Andalusian Parliament, for thirty-five hours, when in this House you have made up to thirty-seven times the use of the budgetary veto every time you lose a vote - in one year as in forty years of democracy - you are revealing one thing: a government that abuses the constitutional prerogatives against the Andalusian Parliament, against the Valencian Courts, against the Madrid City Council or against a government that does not have a problem with the Catalonia itself. [[Applauds]] And that's because you have a misconception of power. You think that governing is imposing, and that's what weak governments do. It is believed that governing is to impose when actually governing is to have the ability to persuade, to include, to offer a course for all. That is why they persist in error and why we have to call them prudence and measure. I know that it is not good days to call the Government of the People's Party to prudence and measure, it is not good days when it has used the institutions as if they were private property, it is not good days when only yesterday Mr Pablo Casado made a threat recalling the worst episodes of the Civil War and the dictatorship, but for us it is an obligation to call back the People's Party to prudence and measure, and, if we do not heed when we call for prudence and measure in the face of partyism and irresponsibility, we will work for this House to call them to order, for this House to impose measure and common sense and for the society of Spain diverse, plurinational, young and modern that does not fit in its narrow, raquitical model of country to impose measure, impose prudence and impose coexistence. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party. We can-In Comú Ponde-In Marea, stand up.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u131	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. For the Socialist Group, Mr Rallo Lombarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u132	Madam President, forty years of constitutional life compel us to reflect on the functioning of our institutions. In 1978, the founding fathers of our constitutional regime lit one of our most precious jewels, the autonomous state. Our constituents have committed to a system of territorial decentralization that has been and is the cause of envy and copying by many nations in our environment. The autonomous communities have contributed decisively to unmatched social and economic progress in our entire history and have guaranteed justice and solidarity among our territories. The autonomous state has been a successful operation that we must pride ourselves on and claim without any complex, especially at these convulsive moments. But in 1978 the enthusiasm and the demand for autonomy were also accompanied by their denial or at least by the suspicion and doubts about what would end up being the current autonomous map. Those resistances were evident in the constituent debates and even penetrated our constitutional text. There are not many constitutional forecasts that demonstrate the constituent's suspicions of future autonomous institutions, but without a doubt Article 161.2 of our Constitution is one of them, as it is unanimously accepted in doctrine, Mr Prendes. The Government's omnipotent power to suspend the validity of laws, provisions and resolutions of the Autonomous Communities appealed to the Constitutional Court implies that it is accorded a superiority free of condition or limits, a rule that could be explained in 1978 by the fear of the unknown of the constituent, but which deserves to be considered today. After forty years of an operational autonomous state, the autonomous communities have proved their right to a relationship with the State institutions in terms of equality and symmetry, because the autonomous communities are states and their position before the Constitutional Court must be based on the binding mutual institutional respect that is guaranteed only by preserving the equality of the parties. However, the Government of the People's Party has instrumentalized constitutional processes to provoke a clamorous regression in our autonomous model, to impose an injuring generalization of social cuts and to prevent the reversal by many autonomous communities of such cuts. It has happened in many autonomous communities, also in the Valencian Community. The Valencians know it well. The Valencians have suffered twenty years of misgovernment from the People's Party, twenty years of waste, looting and corruption, and since 2015 we have suffered political and judicial harassment from the People's Party. They serve as examples of the use of unconstitutionality against universal access to health care or the use of the removal of the pharmaceutical co-op for pensioners or dependents. Ladies and gentlemen, loyalty. Loyalty is what the autonomous communities demand in their relations with the Government of the nation; loyalty by bringing unconstitutionality remedies; loyalty by bringing conflicts of jurisdiction; loyalty, respect and proportionality by invoking the suspension provided for in article 161.2 of the Constitution. This is what the motion we are debating today demands, nothing more, Mr Prendes, despite your demagogic intervention today. [[Applauds]] And that's why we're going to support her. But it is true that this motion goes beyond, and we also share its last ratio. This motion adds one more element to the agenda of the debate on the necessary constitutional reform, a constitutional reform that, using the defining elements of federalism, preserves unity and diversity, guarantees autonomous singularities, promotes cohesion and equality and strengthens territorial unity and autonomy, a constitutional reform, ultimately, that promotes instruments of collaboration and cooperation and that enshrines the principle of loyalty between the State and the autonomous communities. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Fole Díaz has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u134	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, almost a year ago I promised, like the rest of you, to work for the general interest and to comply with and enforce the Constitution as a fundamental rule of the State. Since then, I have been observing how opposition groups move away from that defense of the general interest by changing it for a partisan and selfish interest, and already from within, like a virus, to make a continuous and almost premeditated attack on the rule of law and the Constitution. Today, he brings Compromís a motion in which he speaks of abuse by the Government and unconstitutionality. Shouldn't they have tabled this motion in the Catalonian Parliament? That is where the government is being abused and violating the Constitution, not here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] With this motion they invoke the amendment of Article 161.2. When the Government exercises the powers, powers and powers conferred upon it by the normative framework for the defence of the competition principles established by the Constitution, it is carrying out an action to defend the general interest and the existing legality that we must continue to preserve. However, if an Administration is exceeded in its area of competence, both the State and the autonomous communities, it is necessary for our system to provide for mechanisms to defend the proper application of the division of competence. The Government in the last three legislatures has raised all the unconstitutionality appeals in accordance with the opinion of the Council of State as the supreme consultative body of the Government, according to article 107 of the Constitution. The jurisdiction contained in Article 161, as developed by the LOTC in Title V, constitutes a measure of closure of the system of defence of the division of jurisdiction whereby the Government is granted the power to appeal to the Constitutional Court against any acts or autonomous provisions which it considers unconstitutional, with the privilege of its automatic suspension. What you are asking is for the government to stop exercising its responsibilities or powers? Article 33 of the LOTC states that before using the constitutionality control mechanisms it is necessary to initiate a negotiation process. The dialogue will take place through bilateral commissions between States and autonomous communities. Negotiation is therefore the key point in resolving disputes. These commissions have resolved 470 procedures: 337 promoted by the State and 133 promoted by the Autonomous Communities; more than 73% have ended with agreement when promoted by the State. Only exhausted the path of prior dialogue opens the way to constitutional challenge, so there is no use of this mechanism as a formula of political pressure, as Compromís says. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not consider the reform of Article 161.2 necessary when the Constitution directly and unconditionally invests in the Government the power to provoke an automatic suspension, since it is based on a supremacy of the State, endorsed throughout the entire text of the Spanish Constitution, the Spanish nation in its Article 2. The Government of the nation when updating the mechanism of article 161 does so by representing the general interests of the Constitution, i.e. the interests of Spain as a social and democratic State governed by law. Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on the urgent inquiry that gave rise to this motion you spoke of blackmail and insult to the autonomous communities, of abuse of the resources of unconstitutionality, and said that you could not remain silent in the face of the contempt to which we submit to the institutions of the State. And they say so, without blushing at all. Ladies and gentlemen, blackmail and abuse is making an illegal and unconstitutional referendum, and you support it or keep it quiet. [[Applauds]] Singing and abuse is passing the laws with night and lightness and usurping the rights of Catalan MPs, and you either support it or keep it quiet. Singing and abuse is the indoctrination of Catalan society when they claim that Spain steals them, and you approve or keep quiet. [[Applauds]] Singing, abuse and insult is to bring an initiative to Congress to reprimand the work of the State Security Forces and Bodies, and you will either support it or silence it. That's what I've been seeing here, ladies and gentlemen, all this time; keep quiet, keep quiet and keep quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, this must change. Moreover, why do they reject in an institutional statement that includes a phrase, which is: Condemning all kinds of violence comes from wherever it comes from; that is, it depends on where violence comes from whether they like it or not. Why have they rejected it on the proposal of the People's Party and that institutional declaration has not been made? Ladies and gentlemen, this must change, and we have to do it among all of us, and I will ask you in a way - as the spokesman for Compromises said - that everyone should understand me: Ladies and gentlemen, work for the general interest and for ensuring the rule of law and the Constitution, and in that language we certainly have an understanding. [[Continue your intervention in Catalan, Basque and Galician]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u135	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, on the plans the Government has to overcome THE CURRENT CRISIS WITH CATALUONE. [[File number 173/000048]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u136	We move on to the motion following urgent questioning of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea on the plans the Government has to overcome the current crisis with Catalonia. For the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion and the amendment tabled, Mr Domènech Sampere has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u137	It said Machado in a sentence that I have already remembered other times that 'today is always still'. This phrase was never as true as today. We are experiencing an extremely emotional moment of enormous intensity, both in Catalonia and Spain. At this moment of enormous intensity I will try to appeal to rationality because I am sure that at the end of this path it will be the reason that will be able to get us out of it. It is clear that the views are not set here today, but here we have a huge responsibility, because this is where we define the policies that the State will follow in relation to Catalonia. In fact, emotional intensity - that's why I'm going to try not to make an emotional speech, although I have emotions like, obviously, all of you - can lead us to immediate and short reactions, reactions that are not solutions, but rather magnify the problem. How did we get here? How have we come to this moment that is being lived here and in the Parliament of Catalonia? This has a very long history. First of all, on the part of the Government of the State, this would be a soufflé, which would happen, demonstrating an enormously poor knowledge of what was happening in Catalonia and what Catalonia itself was. We have already said here repeatedly over the past year that the solution was through the recognition that this is a plurinational State. It was not only that idea that this was a soufflé and that this would happen, but that not even a political proposal was made, only the denial without political proposal that we have been living repeatedly with the issue of Catalonia and trusting everything, first, the judges and, then, the State Security Forces and Bodies, and thinking that with this everything was already done. Now that soufflé, that lack of political initiative, that denial and that hiding behind the courts and the police has become not just a crisis in Catalonia, but a state crisis. This crisis is not only a state crisis, but, unfortunately, it is a crisis that has erupted within society as a whole. When we don't talk about politics, when we only talk about repression and confrontation, the beast arises, that beast that we don't want arises, as we saw yesterday in the streets of Valencia. This, he said, is a long history of misunderstandings, but it condenses on that October 1st. You, the Government of the State, had said by active and passive that it would not be held and had said by active and passive that there would be no ballot boxes. They put so much of the victory that they divided the defeat too much. [[Applauds]] And that worries us. We are concerned that their performance has nothing to do with rationality either, but with emotions, with the feeling of humiliation. The two million people who came to vote for Catalonia did not want to humiliate anyone, all they wanted to do was decide their future definitively, to express themselves, to fight for the right to decide on citizenship; and out of those two million there were eight hundred injured by an act that was actually about the persecution of ballot boxes. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Yes, yes, there were eight hundred wounded. The DUI, the declaration of independence, indeed, is not the solution, we do not believe it, but neither will it be, again, to respond to that with more repression because it will widen the conflict, and you know it; it will further strain Catalan and Spanish society, and you know it, and it will be bread for today but hunger for tomorrow. At a time when everyone speaks for their own, the answer must be to speak for everyone, here and there; to speak with the words of eight Nobel Peace Prize winners who have recalled the keys to resolving this conflict: mediation, non-repression and solutions such as those of Scotland and Quebec. [[Applauds]] Those are the solutions of a mature and advanced democracy. We ask you in this motion to dialogue, through international mediation or by whatever means you want, but to dialogue. And if not, leave, leave because if you do not dialogue, you will be acting not only against the good of Catalonia, of the whole of Catalonia in all its plurality, but you will also be acting against the good of Spain. I'm finishing up. To the Socialists, I just want to say that they are part of the solution. We need all of us to be part of the solution, all of us to talk to everyone, not our own. And this, as valuable voices of the Socialist Party of Catalonia have said, like the mayor of Castellà or Terrassa, does not pass through 155; I ask you, it does not pass through. You can be part of the solution, not part of the problem. We will continue to work in any way to articulate bridges and not to destroy them. I don't really care so much, we don't care so much about the future of this motion and whether it's approved or not; what we really care about is that we all take on the collective responsibility to build bridges and solve this. Today it is always still; tomorrow and the day after tomorrow they are always still. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u138	In defence of the Socialist Group's amendment, Mr López Álvarez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u139	President, ladies and gentlemen, today many of the speeches of this plenary have begun by sending hugs and solidarity to the people who were attacked yesterday in the Valencian Community. I also want to start by sending greetings and solidarity to all Catalans and Catalans, to all Spanish people who today are frankly concerned about what can happen at the plenary session of the Parliament, who are afraid, and I want to tell them that they are not alone. [[Applauds]] We love Catalonia; all of us, wherever we are, feel that Catalonia is part of our own identity and the independenceists intend to put us on an internal border. Can you tell me where, with all that we have fought together, with all that we have shared, with all that we have suffered and with all that we have built together all hands, we put that dividing line that halves our consciences, our lives and our hopes? Can you tell us where we lift that internal border? Don't you realize the suffering, the pain and the tear that is being produced in millions of people today? Don't you realize they're breaking up inside? And we can't stand it when this is happening, we can't allow it. Mr. Domenech, this is what the emotion dictates to me. The reason for this is that we are faced with a situation of extreme gravity and, therefore, neither half inks nor profile nor ambiguities or transactions, only clear and clear, clear and clear positions. [[Applauds]] And I intend in these few minutes to reaffirm once again what is the position of the Socialists, which has always been the same. First, we demand that the Catalan institutions of self-government immediately return to democracy, the rule of law and legality because with the first thing that the independenceists have broken it is not with Spain, which they are not going to achieve, but with the first thing that they have broken it is with democracy. [[Applauds]] And we're not going to let ourselves be fooled, no matter how much they self-proclaim their only braves and defenders. Because what democracy are you talking about? Is that one in which the rights of those who do not think like them can be taken away, as they did in the plenary on 6 and 7 September? From the one where the end justifies the means and that's why the laws are skipped when they don't fit them? Of which he despises his own institutions when they don't give them reason? From which they take politics out to the street to search there for a legitimacy they didn't get in the ballot box? The one that hijacks space and the public media so there's only one voice, yours? The one that divides its citizens, regardless of their social breakdown, and that leads to coexistence? As much as they repeat it, as much as they shout, as big as they put the letters in which they preach it, that is not democracy, that is just the opposite and has a name of infamous memory in the history of this country that we do not want to repeat. [[Applauds]] That is why we demand that you return to legality, that you return to constitutional and statutory space even to change it, because that is where everything is possible and outside of it absolutely nothing is possible. Second. Socialists are where we have always been, defending democracy, the rule of law and, therefore, defending the legality that is their support. Don't look for us anywhere else. So, Mr Domènech, tell the secretary of organization of his formation or his sister formation, I don't care, tell Mr Echenique, who yesterday accused the socialists of being accomplices of a possible future violence, that the socialists have 138 years of history, 138 years in prison, exile, banishment, risking life, which has been snatched from us for defending freedom, as to accept that no one comes who has everything to show us to teach us lessons from nothing. We know very well where we are and we know very well what we have to defend. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, several of whom have stood up.]] It is you who have to clarify to us all what your position is. Are you denying a referendum or participating in it? Are they against independence or legitimizing it by participating on Day 1? Are you in the law or just for a while? Are they with a common project for Spain or with a puzzle with whose pieces we don't know what to do? Are we about to build a united Europe or in pieces? Are you with the DUI or are you against it? Because they've told us one thing and they've always done the opposite. And they ask the socialists: where are we? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u140	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u141	For we are where the more than 120 socialist mayors are in Catalonia, on the street, defending on the street democracy and the freedom of all. Don't tell us where we are. We are very clear where the socialists are: in the Constitution, in the Statute, in the laws we have built for more than forty years, because they put in our hands the capacity to manage the plurality and diversity of this country, because they make us citizens free, because they strengthen the coexistence of different people. We are very clear that one country is not built against another, we are very clear that one country is built among all. A country is the result of the pact between the different countries. That is why, at the same time as I say all this, we demand dialogue. Dialogue. I know a lot of people don't even like the word. [[Applauds]] Understand one another: politics in democracy is the permanent exercise of dialogue, negotiation and the pact. That's the only way to build something worthwhile, just like that...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u142	Mr. Lopez, I'm sorry. It has to end because it has exceeded its time.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u143	I'm finishing up. Only then will we build something worth it. That is why we demand the Government of Spain and the Government of Catalonia to negotiate within the framework of legality and to seek a way out of the situation to which they have led us. That is why we call on all groups in this House to sit down and use politics and give answers. The Socialists have set up a committee to do so. Let's use it. Do not look for us on the fronts; we are already sitting at the table with a vocation to speak to give answers. There we are and there we are. We cannot fail the Catalan and Spanish citizens who are asking for dialogue. Socialists are not going to fail them. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u144	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u145	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, while we are holding this sitting in the Parliament of Catalonia, it seems... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u146	One second, Mr. Martínez Oblanca. Your Honor, I respect Mr Martínez Oblanca, who is speaking, and I respect him as I have done during the afternoon. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u147	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the Parliament of Catalonia, it seems that attempts are being made to persevere in the process of breaking the rule of law which began with a plenum for Venezuelan women on 6 and 7 September and which culminated in a tug of Catalan women on Sunday, 1 October, promoted by a Government which was obliged to represent the state of a European and democratic country such as Spain. Beyond denouncing once again what is happening in Parliament, I stress this succession of extremely serious illegal acts, which in most cases involve criminal conduct that must be cleared up in the courts. This afternoon we are debating an initiative for this House to condemn nothing more and nothing less than those who defend the constitutional order, public freedoms and the coexistence of citizens protected by our law. That is why I strongly reject this self-amended motion of the United Parliamentary Group We can, because it pursues no other purpose than to cover here, in the General Courts, the disastrous operation that seeks to destroy what so many years cost the Spaniards to conquer, a conquest based on a vast pact that has been admiration of the world. I take this turn of intervention to renew the Forum's commitment to the democratic, constitutional and European principle of national sovereignty, to the third worldist invention of the right to decide, as well as to the defence of the constitutional principles of equality between territories and solidarity between Spaniards, which exclude any discrimination of one in favour of another and which the powers of the State are also obliged to continue to guarantee in the present and in the future. I conclude, Madam President, by expressing the unequivocal, public and undisturbed support for the Government, the judiciary and the State Security Forces and Bodies in their duty to ensure the defence of freedoms in Catalonia and to comply with and enforce the Constitution and laws, which are the basis of our democratic system and of our rule of law, against those who seek to violate and destroy them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u148	Thank you. Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u149	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank you for keeping your motion so that we can all give our opinion on the incomparence of those who are causing this serious situation. Let me briefly set out four ideas. First. It is the independenceists who have intentionally placed Catalonia out of constitutional legality and out of European unity, violating its own autonomous legality. They want Catalonia out of the law; and out of the law, ladies and gentlemen, there is only disorder, violence, insecurity and uncertainty, as many companies that have been the best image of Catalonia, its best ambassadors, certify with their escape to the race. Second idea. Those who seek political conflict as if it were a business - from the business of conflict we know a lot in Navarre - cannot challenge the rule of law and demand dialogue at the same time. Third idea. Ladies and gentlemen, some are building a Catalonia that fights in a hatred of the Spanish fed by false grievances, from the side of Casanova to 'Spain steals from us'. They say it's a peaceful revolution, but they hire a terrorist like Otegi on a show of maximum audience to show us who is the greatest ally of their peaceful revolution. [[Applauds]] Will a Catalan republic sanctified by Otegi be a more free and peaceful homeland for all than today's Catalonia? Do I have to remember what hateful terrorism, which we defeated among almost all, Otegi represents? As that bullfighter said and in two words: impossible. Fourth idea. Today your challenge will not win, ladies and gentlemen, but independence can break Spain in the future, it is true. This Sunday many Catalans went out on the street to say enough! and to respond to that mantra that coexistence between one another is not possible. Well done. Some of us accompanied them and it was a real pleasure. But such a civic response requires support and continuity and must lead to a clear and loyal unity of political action that does not exist today among national political parties. That, ladies and gentlemen, concerns us. But, anyway, who knows? Likewise, by jumping the traditional Spanish Cainism, we begin to work together, we recover that seny and we get rid of the doctrinalists who always find excuses to invent enemies and raise borders between neighbors, friends and brothers. I wish, ladies and gentlemen. For us, for the Union of the Navarro People and for all the people who support it and whom we represent, it will not remain. I'm done, Madam President. Today and in the future our vote will be no to the fracture of Spain and yes to its unity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u150	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u151	It's hard to sum up in two minutes what's happening in Catalonia but I'm going to try. In recent weeks the state has shown what its true nature is, and it is its obsession with the unity of Spain and the maintenance of the regime of 78, which is crumbling. He has also shown his willingness to act against Catalonia in any way. At Euskal Herria, we've been clear about that for a long time. In the face of the demand for democracy and the right to be subject to decision, the State always responds equally, only with blackmail, with fear, with denial and with brute force. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u152	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u153	It removes the lack of legalist and even, jumping its own legality, imposes on Catalonia, first, a state of de facto exception, followed by the intervention of financial autonomy, to finally perform on October 1 a disproportionate and disproportionate police action that could be repeated at any time with the explicit support of the monarch. And it is that, contrary to what some think, the problem is not who occupies the government today. Things wouldn't have been very different if instead of Rajoy the president had been Sanchez, and to what I have heard today I refer. The differences, unfortunately, would be only formal, would not be substantive. And it is that both defend the unity of Spain by clinging to the law that was approved with the ultimate objective of denying both Catalonia and Euskal Herria the right to decide their future. That is the reality, the regime collapses and there are only two options, supporting it or opening up a real path to democratization. Whoever bets on the latter has no alternative but to support the Catalan process, that is the only valid motion of censure against the 78 regime, that is the only possible democratic path. Catalan society has spoken clearly. It is up to the rest of us to take note, to respect their decision, to ally ourselves with them and to help open up a true path of dialogue - with everything that that word means - with the aim of enforcing the will demonstrated in the ballot box, as the President, Carles Puigdemont, has just said that it opens up to dialogue in order to turn Catalonia into an independent state in the form of a republic, a declaration that he has made with his hand to dialogue. [[Rumors]] That is the real dialogue that is needed. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, that's the dialogue. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u154	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u155	Citizens speak and politicians do what citizens say. Yes, gentlemen. Pick it up on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u156	Thank you very much, For the Basque Group, PNV, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u157	Mr Domènech, the truth is that I cannot tell you that you were very timely with the initiative. You will have seen your lords that you were walking with the penguin, and it is not that you were listening to the Athletic party, there was no football match today and I would not have thought to listen to such a thing in the Chamber, but at the same time this debate was taking place a much more decisive and much more important one in the Parliament of Catalonia, and without the knowledge of it and of how it is going to develop, it is quite difficult to position itself here. I wasn't the only one, others of your honors were doing the same thing, I've even seen journalists doing the same thing. On the other hand, there are no Catalan nationalist parties in the House and an in-depth debate on the subject would need their presence. Moreover, tomorrow is not just that we are going to have control of the government, it is that we are going to have the debate on this issue, because the president of the government is coming. And honestly, having a pseudodebate to advance mid-positions that even some can get nuanced the next day I don't think it makes much sense. Nor did it make much sense to hold this debate today because, in the opinion of my group, today is a day for relaxation, it should be a day for relaxation and it should be a day for dialogue. I believe that things in the Catalan House have also been understood this way, at least in what I have been able to hear from the President's speech, because the main message has been a call to dialogue and today a vote on a declaration of independence is going to take place. It is not for the President of the Generalitat to declare independence, in any case it would be for Parliament, and there is no vote in the House. What has been discussed is dialogue and the possibility of reaching an agreement, but knowing what is the social reality of a society that feels different. That is why, frankly, and although we basically agree with what you say in your writing, I think it is not the day to force a vote or to charge against the President of the Government. If we are going to try to have a dialogue, we are going to try among all to have a climate conducive to it. That he has not acted in the way that we believe the Government should have acted? Absolutely. That there has been an inability to open up channels of dialogue which in politics are absolutely necessary? I certainly subscribe to that, too. That there should be a space for dialogue between all the political forces, between the two governments but also between all the political forces? Of course I do. That we should avoid exceptional actions - some have already taken place in the field of manufacturing - which could occur, which I hope will not because no decision has been taken that could excuse the other party for taking exceptional measures? I also believe that they should be avoided on the basis of that dialogue. I therefore agree, but I sincerely believe, Mr Domènech, that today is not appropriate. And the clarity demanded by some other spokesman, by the socialist spokesman, is true that it is very necessary. I am not often accused of walking with half inks, I often speak very clearly, but the position and the writing they have tabled as an amendment requires some more decision and getting wet more. They speak only of the non-permanent Commission for the form of the territorial model. We have already said, and I believe that other groups have also said this in this House, that either it is defined in a more precise way and the objectives are very clear or talking here about the Spanish territorial model does not make any sense; there is no such problem elsewhere nor does it make any sense to set up a committee for that. Secondly, they reiterate here and call for confidence in constitutional and statutory legality. After the history that has happened regarding the cut of the Catalans' statutory will by the Constitutional Court and distinguished representatives of the Socialist Party also talking about brushing, about everything that has happened over and over again in cuts, denials, lack of dialogue on the fiscal issue, and so on, restoring that confidence will be difficult. I believe that there is no other remedy in politics and in life than to try to open channels of dialogue and create paths that generate those trusts, but to make a simple and plain appeal to constitutional and statutory legality as if its only mention brought tranquillity to a very important number of Catalans, I think it does not bring that tranquillity to many Basques either. My group's experience is that over and over and over and over again we have to be very careful about what competitive invasions are. They cite this constitutional and statutory legality, but in practice the facts are shown to be moving and we will see what can give them. I insist that I believe it is a day to try to give hope, to try to open dialogues and not to break paths. I believe that this has been understood by the Catalan institutions and I hope that it will also be understood by this House. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u158	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Domènech spoke that we are experiencing a moment of special emotional intensity. Nothing new for us, isn't it, Mr Domènech?, that we live in a land where sentimentalism is on a daily basis the subject on which we almost reach pornography and replaces rational debate in a systematic way with appeals to different feelings and facts, at the bottom of all those feelings, which I want to assume you don't share. I have you for a cultured person, and I think you should know, that you certainly know, that nationalism is the most reactionary ideology in contemporary history. That's why I don't understand someone like you commulgating with some mill wheels. I guess you'll accept that I'm as Catalan as you are, won't you? You'll take it from me, won't you? Are we just like Catalans you and me today? Yeah. However, its formation has participated in the great deception of Catalan nationalism - I understand that it is a nationalism that has had decades to establish its parallel reality -, the great deception that there was one thing that was the Catalan people, that was Catalonia, that Catalonia wanted things as if it were a single subject, needed things or was outraged or needed a fit. Cataluña needs a lace! Look, I think it's the Catalan nationalists who need a fit in the Spanish Constitution, I'm really telling you, and they're about to fit in. Today, which are not here the Catalan nationalists, at least the declared ones, because they are in breach of their parliamentary obligations, which is why, by the way, we are going to ask them not to be paid, they leave us at least the advantage of talking with a majority of Members who, in their plans and ideas, which can be very different, think of the whole Spanish people and not their homeland or their village. [[Applauds]] Who has systematically sown hatred in Catalonia from the public and subsidized media, from school? Why do you never refer to the site of the Economics Council, where the police, on the nights prior to October 1, were besieged together with representatives, with a judicial secretary? Why don't you guys talk about the sons of cops you're ashamed of in Catalan schools for their condition? Why do you buy the eight hundred wounded? [[Applauds]] I would understand that you would regret police repression, because one can be more or less sensitive and there are scenes that can bother us all, but do not buy a lie from the nationalist matrix, because today we know that Health gave orders to include as injured people who had been stressed watching television in their home! [[Applauds]] You do not participate, who is an intelligent person, in the perverse and permanent distortion of the reality we suffer in Catalonia, in unanimity, in presenting Catalonia as something unanimous, in presenting as a virtue that all of your media will produce a unique editorial, which will agree even on points and commas. What kind of society is that? What kind of totalitarian nightmare is that? Do not participate, which is worth much more than that, Mr. Doménech, of the logic of the enemy friend! Have you not seen the million people who went out on the street, the silent Catalonia that went out on the street? Why doesn't Mrs. Ada Calau remind us... [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] [[Rumors.- Several Members say words that are not perceived]] What's going on? Is there a problem? [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u160	Wait a minute, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your respect. I must take care of the good image of the House and of your ladies and gentlemen, and I can tell you that in this afternoon and in these last seconds some of you have to consider your change of attitude, because the speaker cannot be interrupted. That is what the Rules of Procedure say, and I believe that what we are discussing is sufficiently broad so as not to make mockery or mockery of what you are talking about. Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u161	They're apologizing, but they're making a coup d'état in my city, you know? So maybe I got a little more excited about it, huh? [[Applauds]] Look at you, Mrs Ada Colau says: 'The Catalan million who have filled the streets of NCB deserve to be escorted', and one would say: Damn it, talk about us!, finally acknowledge that we must be heard! [[Showing a tweet]] No, no, that's what he told the Diad; he didn't tell us about October 8. For the mayor of Barcelona we do not exist. Do we exist for you? [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] Where's the mayor of Barcelona? Are you planning to vote in the referendum, yes or no? We'll see about that. Well, you can vote yes as 9-N, when you voted yes, yes - i.e. as an independentist - or you can vote no; but you can also vote blank or null. You can see: 'Ada Colau suggests that on October 1 he will vote blank or void'. [[Showing different press articles]] You can vote anything; on the bottom it doesn't matter what you vote. He did not like the unilateral declaration of independence, but he did not like article 155. That is to say, it puts at the same level - as some others have done here - an article of the Constitution, which may or may not seem appropriate to you, but which in any case is irreproachably legal, with a coup d'état and the unilateral declaration of secession of a European State. Now it tells us that these results cannot be a guarantee of independence. Anyway, I don't know what Ada Colau says anymore, because it's a riddle wrapped in a mystery. I don't care if Ada Colau hesitates every day about what she is and who she is; all I ask is that, please, she admits that the nationalism that you are playing the game - because you are not recognizing us to the million people that we have gone out on the street - has sown discord, is causing the ruin of Catalonia, the exit of your banks, your insurers, your companies. By the way, some of those who escape are those who have been feeding the beast and now have frightened themselves and escaped. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u162	Mr. Girauta, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u163	Why have they not made it clear that independent Catalonia does not belong in Europe? Why have we had to defend him alone, so few, so lonely? I know that you - I believe - do not want the independence of Catalonia unilaterally. At least I know what you want, what you want Ada Colau I don't know, but why do you take on the mental framework, the mental schemes and the discourse of the most reactionary people in Europe, of the national populism that wants to break the European project? Why, Mr. Domènech? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u164	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Sánchez-Camacho.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u165	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise here as a Catalan MEP and as a Spanish MEP before one of the most crucial moments in the history of contemporary democracy in these forty years. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, a blow is being made to democracy in the Catalan Parliament, which represents seven and a half million Catalans. [[Applauds]] Mr Puigdemont has just announced that the referendum justifies the endorsement of an independent republic, and it has been said that it suspends those effects. I am not going to be part of that independent republic; I am going to be Spanish, Catalan and European, and I am going to be in the Kingdom of Spain, which is the one I want, the one I defend and the one I have defended all my life; there I am. [[Applauds]] But, ladies and gentlemen who are here today, they do so on the basis of a referendum that has been a poaching, a referendum that has not existed, a referendum simulation in which the universal census was changed hours before, in which the ballot papers were brought from home, in which the ballot boxes were opaque, in which there were municipalities in which more people were voting than the ones that were being censused and in which even people were voting thirty-seven times. Mr. Domènech, do you think you can legitimize that referendum, which is clearly illegal and unconstitutional, to justify dialogue today here or to justify independence? No, it's impossible. I will tell you more, Mr Domènech, the electoral board has decided that this referendum is invalid, but do you know who has signed in writing the results that have been taken to Parliament today? Mr Turull, Mr Junqueras and Mr Romeva. How would you like the result of an election signed by the Vice-President of the Government of Spain? Would you think he's a supporter? Would you think he's defending your interests? No, it's clearly a fraud, a farce and a punch. That's what happened in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] In addition, Mr Domènech, in Catalonia some independenceists hoped that this would be a low-cost independence, an independence flower power, that nothing would happen here. Do you know what's going on? That companies are going one after another, from La Caixa to Cellnex, that more than 50% of Catalonia's GDP is going to be gone, that Catalonia is going to be unsustainable, that jobs are going to be lost, economic capacity. That's what we said a lot of years ago. I come here to talk about dialogue and to blame the President of the Government. I have not heard a single word about irresponsibility, the injustice that Mr Puigdemont is causing by dividing Catalonia, dividing Spain and wanting to break the unity of all Spaniards. He has not said so in this motion, not a single word. [[Applauds]] Moreover, Mr Domènech - Mr Girauta and I repeat -, clearly i català: we do not know where Mrs Colau was. One day I was supporting the referendum... By the way, Maduro's referendum did not want to support him, the one that was legitimate, the one that the Venezuelan Parliament did; it did not put the facilities that it did put in this illegal referendum. And do you also know that Mrs. Colau did not put us in services or buses or take any measures to help the million people we went to defend that we are Catalans, that we are Spanish and that the silent majority is standing because it is more and has a voice in Catalonia and throughout Spain? You didn't help us. [[Applauds]] Besides, Your Honor, you're talking to me about dialogue. Do you know what I'm gonna tell you here today? I have been in this for many years and today I remember that on December 20 Artur Mas started this process in his investiture and it was I who voted against, I told him that he would never allow independence or exercise the right to decide, and today I tell him again here. Where were you all those years when I stood day by day in the Parliament of Catalonia for dialogue, for not taking us to independence, for not taking us to the precipice, for not taking us to the abyss? Now everybody says it, so we were preaching in the desert. Do you know where they were, Mr. Domènech? Many of yours are squatting at the door of my house; many of yours are squatting in the election campaigns we were going to; many of yours are preventing us from defending democracy. [[Applauds]] In addition, I will tell you, Mr Domènech, that we are never going to allow a dialogue with coupsmen, we are not going to allow you to equate the coupsmen who are breaking Spain with the legitimate government of Mariano Rajoy who support eight million Spaniards. We're not gonna let him. [[Applauds]] We are ready to speak in the Committee on Territorial Policy. But for what? To continue to yield to those who have acted in a disloyal way, to continue to yield to all those who have been given many powers and acted against the loyalty and unity of Spain? We will talk, but we will talk about the modernization of the State of self-government and we will talk about those who have acted unfairly and cannot be politically unpunished or legally unpunished or otherwise unpunished. This can't come out for free, Mr. Puigdemont. This can't go free, Mr. Domènech, at all. [[Applauds]] I'll tell you something else. Do you know what hidden the revolution from smiles, the revolution from the peaceful and democratic process? He hid the school of hatred, sectarianism, exclusion, division of those we did not think of as they did. I've suffered that for many years. Where were you to defend our fundamental rights? Where were you, ladies and gentlemen? Because they only defend those on one side. And I'm gonna tell her something else to remember. I'm Catalan and I'm doubly Spanish, but I'm not going to let the schools of my land encourage hatred, encourage division, tell the children that the Civil Guard and the National Police were attacking and killing people because it's false, because it's a lie and because it's abhorrent what's happening. [[Applauds]] But I'll tell you more. The consequences you are talking about are well received by the Government of Spain, because I already in 2012, Mr Domènech - I don't know where you were - was asking the Board of State Guarantees that the EUR 5 million they were saving for the 9N referendum should not be used because it was illegal, because it was not in Spanish law and because it had no competence. I'll tell you something else. I don't want my taxes to pay TV3, the propaganda of hatred, separation, Hispanicophobia against Spain. I don't want my taxes on the diplomat and the lies to the international embassies. I am not willing, and I am in support of the Security Forces and Bodies of my country, of Spain, because they are the guarantee of our rights and freedoms. They are the ones who are really fighting for a free democracy in Catalonia, not what you are doing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u166	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u167	Your Honor, I'm done. Here some speak of the alchemy of the words of dialogue, and the words of dialogue carry much more behind, much more. Here they talk about the alchemy of the right to decide. Things aren't that easy, because they never wanted to talk. They had the false and poisoned dialogue, the dialogue of imposition, of referendum yes or yes, and now do you know why they ask for this six-month suspension? Not to solve it for all the Spaniards, no. They are asking for it so that we can give them the independence of Catalonia, and we will not give it to them, because if anyone is going to guarantee here the unity, the defence of all Spaniards and the equality and freedoms that do not exist on my land it will be my party, because in addition to being Catalan and Spanish I am a member of the party that gives support to the Government, which is the only one that is having a sense of state to guarantee the rights, freedoms and plurality of Catalan society. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u168	I ask Mr Domènech whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u169	For the sake of dialogue and what has happened right now in the Parliament of Catalonia, which has not been a unilateral declaration of independence, I withdraw the motion. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u170	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u171	We begin the voting. We are voting, first, on the proposal for a law of the Basque Parliament establishing a compensation fund for asbestos victims. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 plus 3 telematics votes, 323; 193 plus 3 telematics votes, 196; abstentions, 127.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u172	Consideration shall be given to the proposal for a law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u173	We now voted to take into consideration the proposed law of the Basque Parliamentary Group on the reform of Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November of the Criminal Code. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 plus 3 telematics votes, 322; 159 plus 3 telematics votes, 162; 129; abstentions, 31.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u174	It shall be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u175	Let us now proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals as agreed in the course of the debate. We began by voting for the non-legislative proposal of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí, on the amendment of Law 1/2004 of 21 December of Commercial Schedules. We are going to vote on it in terms of incorporating the amendments tabled by the Socialist and Joint Parliamentary Groups. [[Mrs. Sorlí]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 319 votes in favour, 77 against, 160 abstentions, 82.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u176	It's rejected. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on the Impulse and Development of the AUTOMOUS VEHICLE. [[File number 162/000451]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u177	We shall now proceed to the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group on the impulse and development of the autonomous vehicle. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the popular parliamentary groups, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Ciudadanos, Vasco y Mixto, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 317 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u178	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u179	We shall continue with the votes on the motions following an inquiry. Motion for an urgent appeal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the implementation of the commitments to resettlement and resettlement of refugees in accordance with the decisions taken by the European Union in 2015. We are going to vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist and Confederal groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 190 against, 127 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u180	It's approved. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the abuse by the Government of the remedies of unconstitutionality to autonomous laws and the automatic suspension of autonomous provisions and rules provided for in Article 161.2 of the Constitution. [[Lords Baldoví, Candela and Bataller and Lady Solli]] [[File number 173/000047]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u181	We now vote on the motion following an urgent appeal from the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví, Mr Candela and Mrs Bataller and Mrs Sorlí, on the abuse by the Government of unconstitutionality remedies to autonomous laws and the automatic suspension of autonomous provisions and rules provided for in Article 161.2 of the Constitution. We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 320 votes in favour, 157 against, 161 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-10-CD171010.u182	It's rejected. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and thirty minutes of the night.
