ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Hernando Vera, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government, I believe that Spanish citizens have attended with perplexity and some concern certain actions and manifestations of your Government in relation to prosecutors who have been fighting corruption for many years. You have relieved prosecutors, on the proposal of the Attorney General of the State appointed by you, of key positions in the fight against crime: the National Court, the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office and certain higher courts of justice. Its Minister of Justice, here present, has publicly criticized the actions of prosecutors in the Region of Murcia who fight against corruption in order to defend his party partner, the president of the Region of Murcia, currently accused of alleged crimes of prevarication, fraud, falsehood, misappropriation of public revenues. Even his Minister of Justice has been caught all over Spain trying to speak desperately with the president of the Murcia Region hours before the Attorney General freed him from a second charge. What would have happened to a similar episode starring the Minister of Justice in France or Germany? What I'm asking you, Mr. Rajoy, is if you believe that these episodes improve citizens' confidence in justice. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u3	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Hernando. You have referred to two matters in your speech. Firstly, to a matter concerning a region of Spain, Murcia, and secondly, to the appointment of prosecutors. Both matters have been dealt with in this House by the Attorney General of the State and I think it has been sufficiently clear. In the case of Murcia, he stated that there was no interference, pressure or follow-up by the Government and that he acted in full conformity with the Statute of the Prosecutor's Office in the event of a discrepancy between prosecutors and their superiors. As far as appointments are concerned, as you know, these positions are discretionary and are made for a period of five years. 35 positions have now been convened, 25 because he finished his term and 10 for other reasons. Of the 25, it has been renewed to 19 and changed only to 5. They have been proposed by the Attorney-General of the State, after hearing the Prosecutor's Council and meeting all the requirements set out in the law, and the Government has ratified them. You referred here to the case of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office; plainly and plainly, it was vacant. It has also referred to the case of the National Court; the person who has not been renewed for eleven years and there is no reason why another five more must be present or there is no reason why he cannot be replaced, as has been done, under the law. I therefore regret to say that I cannot share your reasoning and arguments and, yes, I do not think that they benefit justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u5	Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u6	Mr. Rajoy, if I ever imagined that you were going to tell me that everything is normal, that I have not been and I have been registered. That's what he tells me most of the time. The point is that we have known that the last Attorney General of the State was relieved of his post because he resisted making the appointments that have now been carried out. Three prosecutors in five years. The first one went because he did not resist the pressures or refused to admit the pressures and the last one has gone because he did not want to make the appointments that have now been promoted. And what I say to you, Mr Rajoy, is that you stop manoeuvring justice, especially in those cases that directly affect you; that the People's Party stop trying to nullify the procedures in which you are involved, that stop destroying evidence and destroying computers, because justice in the end will come to its ultimate consequences. And so is politics. Why do I tell you politics too, Mr. Rajoy? Because in this Congress of Deputies you will have to give explanations about the financing of the People's Party in the last twenty years and about Box B, because there is a commission of inquiry registered by my group that we are going to bring to this plenary for it to be voted on and surely approved. This regardless of whether you literally jump to the toaster the pact you have with another political formation to investigate, among other things, why four Treasurers of the People's Party are currently imputed. They no longer have an absolute majority. You're going to investigate and you're going to end up knowing the truth, Mr. Rajoy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u7	Mr President of the Government, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u8	Mr Hernando, I have to say that the reason why the former Attorney General of the State is not the Attorney General of the State is not what you said here. It is absolutely false to attempt to impose any appointment on the former Attorney General of the State. I therefore have to say in this House solemnly that you are missing the truth. Secondly, I am not going to tell you what the former Attorney General of the State appointed by you because it makes no sense. I think that does not contribute anything or make any sense for us to have a debate on this issue. I would like to point out again that it has not given a single argument on the merits of the matter. He has not explained here why the Government has wronged the appointments and has not explained here why the words of the Attorney General of the State I read at the beginning of this intervention are not acceptable. Honestly, I don't think that question you just asked here leads to anything at all. If there are accused of my political strength it will be because the prosecution has acted and I sincerely believe that, if we want to build ahead, what we have to do is work on the creation of the subcommittee that is going to deal with the national justice strategy. Reviewing the funding of my party or yours... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Albert Rivera Díaz, of the CIO parliamentary group, which expresses to the President of the Government: Why are you opposed to the opening of an inquiry into the irregular financing of the people's share? [[File number 180/000143]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u10	Question by Mr Albert Rivera Díaz, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, also addressed to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u11	Thank you, President. President of the Government, we have reached an investment agreement to support his investment between Citizens and the People's Party, an agreement of 150 reforms to improve Spain. I must admit that some of them are moving forward: we have implemented the Autonomous Act, on the proposal of Citizens; the Minister acknowledged yesterday or before yesterday that he is going to lower the cultural VAT for live shows; we have changed the paternity permits, which have increased; we are in an educational pact that had never existed in this House; today a reform of the Electoral Law is approved, after forty years. And I must tell you, until we speak the word corruption, everything is fine. What's the problem? We've run into corruption, Mr. Rajoy. When we talk about meeting the demands and one of them is to create the Commission of Inquiry into the alleged illegal financing of the People's Party, there you do not meet, you have no word. Look, this is the deal, the anti-corruption pact. [[Show a document]] Here's Mr. Juan Carlos Girauta's signature and I think - if you haven't faked it - that this is Mr. Rafael Hernando's, I think it's yours. If this is Mr. Rafael Hernando's signature and you said in that rostrum that we have no doubt that he will meet the 150 points, I ask you: why are you telling us that you are not going to meet just the point to study your party's illegal funding? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u12	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u13	I certainly have not said that I will not meet any of the 150 points of the agreement. Moreover, as you very well have just pointed out here, when we have been in Parliament for a very few months, we are already fulfilling a very important part of the agreement that we have signed with all of you. In any case, I would also like to remind you that one of the points of the agreement is the creation of the Commission of democratic quality, which we have complied with and within it there is a subcommittee of study to discuss, among other things, the financing of political parties; I suppose all political parties. A number of independent experts have appeared in the Commission, who, among other things, have said that the proposals adopted by the People's Party in the last parliamentary term are certainly in the right direction. We can continue to work for new proposals and I am prepared to consider it. And in that Commission the treasurers of all the parties will appear, which without any doubt will give a good account of the matter on which you are concerned. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u14	Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u15	Well, you're not going to comply with the committee of inquiry. But don't worry, Mr Rajoy, there is a parliamentary majority and you no longer have an absolute majority; I don't know if you have realized that you have no more than 180 seats, you have 137, so that Commission will start. However, Mr Rajoy, Mrs Sánchez-Camacho - I was in Parliament - asked the Committee of Inquiry into the Pujol case because it was the Pujol case, and it was not Bárcenas, it was Mr Pujol. In Andalusia, Mr Moreno Bonilla rightly asked - with us - the Commission for research into training courses and the Commission for training courses was set up. When it is from PSOE, it must be started quickly; when it is from Convergence, it must be speeded up quickly; now, when it is from PP, possible measures must be considered. No, no, we're going to study your party box B, Mr. Rajoy. And you know why? Because you have full 15, four of the treasurers are charged. I do not know whether they will come or will have to make Skype, like Mr Granados, from prison, but they come and there will be a Commission of Inquiry, and I ask you, Mr Rajoy, to keep your word. This parliamentary group, and it was not easy, fulfilled, we were responsible, we gave you support, we trusted that you had a word, we trusted that your party would comply and they are not complying. So I ask you, Mr Rajoy, to keep your word because, either with you or without you, the Commission of Inquiry into Box B of the People's Party is going to be set up here. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u16	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u17	I have already told you, Mr Rivera, that I am willing to discuss this matter with you or with whom you tell me. We can talk about setting up a commission of inquiry, in fact, on this point in the Congress of Deputies or in the Senate, because the agreement does not say where it is going to be created. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Ah, now in the Senate!]] We can discuss whether it only affects the funding of the People's Party... [[Rumors.-Mr. Rivera Díaz: Yes, we can discuss and talk and talk...]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u18	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u19	... or also to the financing, for example, of Podemos, PSOE or its own. We can also discuss whether funding has been since 1990 or since. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u20	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u21	We can discuss above all, Mr Rivera, whether this is positive or is useful for building something. In any case, as I said before, I believe that there are many parts of the pact that we have signed that are being fulfilled. The other day there were magnificent data on job creation in our country, more than 580,000 people found a job in the last year. I think we need to discuss, if we want to build on the future, on dependency, on pensions or on the estuary. What are we going to do with the stove? Because this is a very important issue, as you know, Mr Rivera, and these are issues that undoubtedly matter to all citizens. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u22	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u23	Therefore, I am willing to talk to you about all the issues I want to deal with, but I would also like to say that I think the positive thing would be that we look to the future, because if we look too much to the past it can happen to us as Lot's woman. Do you remember? It became a salt statue. Thank you very much. [[Laughs and applause.- Rumours]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN TARDà I COMA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DO YOU THINK THAT IN THE SPANISH STATE LEGISLATION GUARANTEEES REAL EQUALITY BETWEEN MEN AND WOMEN? [[File number 180/00140]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u25	Question also addressed to the President of the Government of Mr Joan Tardà i Coma of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u26	Mr President, the fights for women's rights are being commemorated all over the world today, have these vulva or penis. [[Laughter]] And since Spanish legislation guarantees equality between men and women, I would like to know what you think of the fact that Spain is the second highest unemployment rate for women in the European Union, why the wage gap already reaches 20%, why seven out of ten women pensioners live on the poverty line, why there are women flat-room waitresses who charge 2 euros per hour worked, or why the vast majority of transgender women suffer social and labour exclusion, when I do not harass them. Then he asked: Are you convinced that there is an effective and real equality?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. I would like to begin this intervention by condemning in the strongest and most robust way the violence against women, which is undoubtedly the most cruel exponent of the lack of equality. Having said that, I believe that the laws in Spain in general are good, of course they are as good as any human work, but I believe that our problem is not a law problem. What we have to do fundamentally is to remove the barriers in fact. In any case, I am absolutely convinced that you are taking steps in the right direction, that we are going the right way and I will give you just one piece of information, only one, in this part of my speech: this 8 March 2017 is the 8 March of the history in which there are more women working in our country. I believe that this is great news and that it should encourage us to persevere in what we have done together in recent times. Much remains to be done, but I think we are taking steps in the right direction. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u29	Mr. Tardà.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u30	Mr Rajoy, you have not been able to bury or combat the sociological Francoism that coined a heteropatriarchal model; yes, a heteropatriarchal model that generates inequalities. And it is a problem of laws, and I give you an example: if you are not able to grant a compulsory and equal permit for both members of the couple, it is finally the woman who assumes the responsibilities of family care, which entails, in addition to a double burden of working time, precarious work, partial jobs, inability to promote herself professionally and, of course, minimal social security contributions, which means a greater feminization of poverty. But I must also tell you that I am not surprised because, after forty years of democracy in the Spanish state - and a Republican who is not Spanish, who is, but is not - how is it that the Constitution still states that the man is preeminent over the woman in the way of succession? This, you who are Spanish and monarchic, should be ashamed, and on a day like today, even more. Then don't give us any lessons. Today is a day when you should recognize that you have not - I repeat - been able to bury the sociological franchise and, since you have not been able to bury it, you should recognize that it is a problem of laws; yes, a problem of laws. And, as it is, I think that at least it would be a politically good and sincere gesture that today... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Tardà, I have no intention of giving you lessons from absolutely nothing. Man, I wish you wouldn't give them to me either! But, if you want, bring me without care because something I can learn from you too. What I am saying is that if you want to amend some laws, say so and we are willing to consider it; in fact, we are doing it in this House. But the fundamental problem - I think so, you can think otherwise - is not law. In addition, progress is being made and steps are being taken in the right direction. I used to talk to him about what is happening throughout Spain and today I tell him that this March 8, 2017 is the March 8th in the history of Catalonia where there are more women working, and it is a positive fact. A few years ago, women's unemployment was growing to 9.64 per cent a year and is now falling to 8.79 per cent a year, and it is also a positive figure. The rate of activity between men and women is getting very close. See, in 1987 the difference was 36 points and now the difference is 11 points. The same applies to the wage gap; Eurostat's latest data say that between 2009 and 2014 the difference has fallen by 3 points, and the same applies to pensions. Mr Tardà, we are doing things better; and I am referring to society as a whole, I am no longer talking to you about the Government of Spain. I think this is getting better. Is it possible to improve more? Absolutely. Well, let's work together to do it. But let us not use any day or opportunity to criticize the Government. I am willing to consider what you are doing, but I sincerely believe that you are not right and, once again, you have been unable to provide a single idea more than the permanent complaint. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u33	Thank you very much. - OF JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT RAMON GARCIA HERNANDEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMULATING THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS AND COOPERATION: WHAT VALUATION DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RECENT STATE VISIT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE ARGENTINA REPUBLIC, MAURICIO MACRI, SPAIN? [[File number 180/00158]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u34	Question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. Question by Mr José Ramón García Hernández, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u35	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Foreign Affairs, we welcome the visit of the President of the Argentine Republic, Mr Mauricio Macri, to Spain and we welcome it because once again normalcy and political stability have allowed this great conversation between two sister nations to be resumed, which should never have been interrupted. Only populist regimes abduct these relations that must always exist between all countries in order to be peaceful, harmonious and fruitful. That is why we saw with amazement how he took hostage the most common of the democratic and diplomatic courtesys and did not accept the concerns that President Macri expressed about the fight against poverty, the fight against drug trafficking and the union of all Argentines, while something else is being preached here. I am very afraid that some would only applaud those populists who would make us look like a pet, but regrettably take away the common board of the Spanish democracy that corresponds to all the Democrats, not just some. We know that it is because we do not give them reason childishly and because they do not accept the democratic proposals that we make and which serve to solve real problems of the Spaniards. Therefore, Minister, what assessment does you make of the official visit of the President of the Argentine Republic? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u36	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, we make a very positive assessment. As you know, it is the first visit of a president of the Argentine Republic since 2009 and it represents the overcoming of a phase in which relations had not been at the level we would like. It is a support for the new path chosen by the President of Argentina and throughout Argentina of openness to the world, of leadership of regional integration, of relations with Europe and even of leadership in the world that will preside over the G-20 next year. Argentina has a strategic relationship with Spain, derived from close personal, historical, cultural and economic ties. There are more than 250 companies established in Argentina and we hope that from now on there will be many more. This new strategic relationship has been manifested in the signing of a joint declaration between the President of the Government and the President of the Republic, in a new strategic plan that renews that of 2005, and in no less than eight memorandums and four conventions on topics of special attention and interest to our societies, cultural, educational and development cooperation. In short, this visit is the beginning of a new strategic relationship and the impetus for a new stance and a new bilateral relationship that we hope will be supported by the European Union through the progress of relations between the European Union and Latin America with the signing of the Mercosur agreement, working together for a more open, peaceful and prosperous world. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u38	Thank you very much. - OF THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE: WHAT MECHANISM DOES THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE ACCOUNT THE MINISTRY OF DEFENCE TO FRONT, CLARECATE AND, IN HIS CASE, SANCTION THE BEHAVIOURS OF MEMBERS OF THE FORCES ARMED OR DELIVERY? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000142]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u39	Question addressed to the Minister of Defence, Mr Mikel Legarda Uriarte, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u40	Good morning. Minister, may I ask you what mechanisms the Ministry of Defence has in mind to deal with, clarify and, if so, punish the conduct of members of the Armed Forces that constitute an administrative or criminal offence? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u41	Thank you very much. Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u42	Thank you, Madam President. As you know, the mechanisms available are the Armed Forces Disciplinary Regime Act, the Common Penal Code and the Military Penal Code on a specific and subsidiary basis. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Legarda.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u44	Minister, today, International Women's Day, I would like to focus my question on a number of very serious facts, the authors of which, it seems, are a group of soldiers - among them, it seems, also a lieutenant colonel of infantry - all belonging to the XXVI promotion of the General Military Academy of Zaragoza. They reportedly send a series of e-mails to the protocol service of the Government of Navarre - a government to which, as you know, the Basque Nationalist Party is a party - in which the president of the Government of Navarre is called a whore and shits who attended an act in recognition of victims of political violence by police and extreme right-wing groups, an act in which neither the National Court nor the courts of Navarre saw any illegality. I will reproduce the literal content of these emails, and it sounds hard. In the first one, one of the military assumptions, which is identified as J.E., rhetorically asks: Is the daughter of a whore democratic, constitutional and restorative if it is said by a public official or only if it is said by one of the others? In the second, another military identified as C.A.D.F. He answers, "There is no solution, the one who's a whore is a whore all her life, and this one, from a little girl, has learned the trade. Finally, A.A.D., another military, apparently, expresses interest in attending the act for - he writes -: once there I can tell the assistants that they are scoundrels and shits. In the face of these facts and as a sign of rejection, the Parliament of Navarre unanimously adopted a statement rejecting any insult that receives any public office for its political positions. Minister, in the face of particularly serious events as their perpetrators are eventually members of the Army, have you taken any steps to clarify these serious events? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u45	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Legarda, I know that you are a renowned jurist and I imagine that in asking me this question, your honor is aware that the persons to whom you refer are retired military personnel and, as such, are not subject to either military discipline or the Armed Forces Disciplinary Regime Act or the Military Penal Code. These are personal mails between retired military personnel who are not subject to the discipline of the Ministry of Defence nor have their freedom of expression restricted. I reject, hate and condemn such statements against Mrs Barkos, against any woman and against any public office, but I have to tell you that, as you know very well, they are not subject to military discipline. However, public television paid for with the money of all Spaniards and all Basques who insult, defame and seriously insult the dignity of all Spaniards are subject to another discipline. There you can exercise responsibility, Mr. Legarda. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!- Prolonged applause]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs MeritxELL BATET LAMAÑA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT GOVERNMENT GOVERNMENT GOING TO DO WITH INCREASING UNEQUALITY IN OUR COUNTRY RECEIVED IN RECENT REPORTS? [[File number 180/000153]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u47	Questions to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. Question by Mrs Meritxell Batet Lamaña from the Socialist Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u48	Thank you, President. Minister, good morning. According to his Government, 2015 was the first year of growth and economic recovery, but it turns out that there are reports from the European Commission on inequality and reports by Intermon Oxfam or UGT - among many others - that the number of people living with a minimum autonomous income has increased by 25%; that the wage gap between men and women remains above 24 % and, therefore, the gap in unemployment benefit and pensions has been consolidated; that women's job insecurity continues to grow and that the risk of poverty also continues to grow. What is your Government planning to do about this reality, Minister? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u49	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u50	Thank you, President. Your Honor, in the Government we will continue to work as from day one to reduce inequality, creating jobs, protecting the welfare state and advancing towards equal opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs. Batet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u52	Madam Minister, the reports clearly tell us that your government actions are not achieving the results they seek. The European Commission report warns of high levels of inequality, social exclusion and poverty. Spain is at the tail of the European Union. Madam Minister, I agree with the President of the Government that this is not so much a matter of legislation, although some of them are needed; for example, the law on equal pay which this House has adopted and which I hope you will fulfil with that mandate. It was a policy problem and his Government's policies had exacerbated inequality and had unprotected vulnerable persons. Minister, economic inequality, inequality between men and women, inequality in education, inequality in access to culture, inequality between those who have the most and the most and those who have the least and the least has not stopped growing. We are beginning to have a danger, Minister, and this inequality is beginning to be structural in our country. This country has only a future if we manage to recover the housekeepers; if we manage to recover those young people who are getting contracts to work three hours a week; if we manage to recover the well-prepared ones who are still unemployed in our country. Minister, this country has only a future when we get a woman to cover exactly the same thing for the same job as a man. Madam Minister, I do not expect you to respond to any common places or to boast of the economic growth that I have recognized you. What I hope from your answer, Minister, is a commitment to quantify inequality... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u53	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u54	Thank you, President. Your Honor, equal opportunities are social justice and a right for all. It is therefore the absolute priority of this Government. Of course, we have a lot of work to do, but the policies of the Government, those of recovery, are being effective in combating inequality. Our main social policy is employment; creating jobs is fundamental to combating poverty and inequality. For the first time in our history we have managed to generate employment at rates of economic growth below 2%. We have gone from destroying one thousand five hundred jobs a day to creating two thousand two hundred jobs a day. And it's the first time in history that more women work in our country. The other main priority has been the protection of our welfare State. This Government found itself in a very difficult situation. We must remember that 92% of the growth in inequality occurred in the period 2007-2012. Faced with this, we have striven to preserve the welfare state: education, health, the defrosting of pensions and the maintenance of the Dependency Act, and finally, we have made progress towards equal opportunities. Today is Women's Day. We all know that countries with greater participation and involvement of women achieve greater social cohesion and are more economically prosperous. To achieve real equality, we cannot waste the talent of 51% of Spanish society. We cannot waste the feminine talent of our society. That is why we are 100% committed to achieving real equality between men and women. That's why we want to get more women working and running their own business; continue to narrow the wage gap and improve the compatibility of the family and working life of society as a whole, not just women, and continue to break all barriers, cement ceilings and glass ceilings. With these objectives we have already adopted measures, and now we are working on a new strategic equal opportunities plan 2007-2020. It is true, Mrs Batet, that much remains to be done. While inequality is diminishing, it remains a priority for this Government, but it has to be a priority for society as a whole. Our main objective is for recovery to reach all households in Spain and for equality to be effective in Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u55	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Carmen ROCÍO CHOLO PEREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHAT PLANS DO THE GOVERNMENT HAVE FOR THE RECOGNIZATION OF THE UNREUNED WORK OF WOMEN? [[File number 180/000154]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u56	Question also addressed to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality of Mrs Carmen Rocío Cuello Pérez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u57	Thank you, President. What plans does the Government have for the recognition of women's unpaid work?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u58	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u59	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the Government's goal is to increase the number of women with paid work and to ensure that unpaid work does not fall solely on women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u60	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cuello.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u61	Minister, what is not quantified does not exist. Unpaid work involving the care of the household and family members by women is the unknown giant of the economy; it is not reflected in GDP or in any of the usual macroeconomic indicators. Is it justifiable, Minister, not to recognize the monetary value of domestic work and care, but that of prostitution? I remind you, Your Honor, that it is you who have decided to include prostitution in GDP, and let me tell you that prostitution is a form of gender-based violence, and what you should do from your Government is to eradicate it. Quantifying and valuing unpaid work is important. UN Women has expressed this in its motto today for International Women's Day. His Government, with labour reform, had left 160,000 non-professional caregivers out of the social security system since November 2011, mostly women. And what can you tell me, Minister, about work on farms or family businesses? More of the same: unpaid work of women in the present and the impossibility of contributory pensions in the future. The assessment of unpaid work is key to gender equality policy. We therefore want you to explain to us how your ministry intends to measure and value the contribution of unpaid work to the economy, how you intend to make visible the unequal distribution of unpaid and paid work between women and men, and how you value the relationship between unpaid work and the vulnerability of women to poverty. Today, 8 March, women make a half-hour job, care and consumption strike. Our support for this initiative, but what would happen, Minister, in our economy if that stoppage were indefinite? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u62	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u63	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, we all recognize the enormous effort of our mothers, of our grandmothers, of hundreds of thousands of women in Spain to care for their families. Does it seem fair to you that domestic work and family care only fall on the woman? That unpaid work in the home is attributed only to women? I do not think so, so the first priority of this Government is to work so that more and more women who want to be able to have paid and equal work with men. We need to break the stereotypes that place women as the sole responsibility for the care of the home and the family. We have to work to make every person decide what he or she wants to do with his or her life, and we must continue to work to ensure that co-responsibility and reconciliation are issues of society and not just of women. The Government's second priority is to continue working on reducing the wage gap. Through the reforms promoted by this government, we have managed to get one in two women leaving unemployment in Europe to do so in our country. Since the recovery of employment in Spain the wage gap has fallen by 3 points - we are better than France, the United Kingdom and Germany - but we must continue to make progress. We are not content, because we cannot waste 51% of the female talent represented by women in Spain. Finally we want to continue to recognize the efforts of women and their contribution to our society, so in the Government of Spain we apply since 1 January 2016 the maternity supplement. We have raised the retirement pension up to 15% to the mothers who retired from 2016, in recognition of their contribution to society, a recognition of women as mothers, since it is women who in most cases reduce, sometimes voluntarily and sometimes not, working days to assume family responsibilities. There are already more than 180,000 women who have seen their pension raised thanks to this maternity supplement, a measure in favour of equality that reflects the Government's commitment to women, placing Spain at the forefront of policies to support working mothers. Women don't claim anything that we don't deserve or claim to be more than anyone. We only demand effective real equality, because we are 51% of the talent of this society. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u64	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL APPEAL BOTECHARA SANZ, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS, WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHAT BUDGETARY MEASURES IS TO BE TAKEN BY THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY FOR THE TREATMENT OF HEPATITS C FOR THE YEAR 2017? [[File number 180/000148]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u65	Question also addressed to the Minister for Health, Social Affairs and Equality of Mrs Amparo Botejara Sanz of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u66	Minister, what budgetary measures will your ministry take for the treatment of hepatitis C in 2017? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u67	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u68	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the approach to hepatitis C carried out in the last two years through the strategic plan is one of the greatest successes in the history of the National Health System, and we will continue with this plan until 2020. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs. Botejara.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u70	Madam Minister, not a single figure. Your answer is completely out of reality. What's the reality? The reality is that the 2016 budget was by the ministry of zero euros. As a result, we have indebted communities and patients who do not have treatment. I will give you figures from your ministry. The reality is that we currently have 20,000 patients diagnosed with hepatitis F0, F1; 16,000 patients F2, F4, and 1,700 patients diagnosed according to protocol, those perfectly located, and inexplicably without treatment, because they are in prison. You've been long enough - it's been a few months - to have brought a more accurate response to the needs our patients and our health need. The best preventive treatment, minister, is the treatment of all patients with hepatitis C. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u71	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u72	Thank you, President. Your Honour, I am convinced that you, with your question, did not wish to raise an alarm by questioning the measures that, together with all the Autonomous Communities, we have taken to combat hepatitis C. We have one of the best health systems in the world, we are a benchmark for many countries and for many citizens around the world; we have treated 69,000 patients with innovative medicines until January 30, 2017, many of them having suffered the negative consequences of the disease for decades. It is a milestone that we have achieved, led by the late Dr. Rodés and with the collaboration of all health professionals, with the leading specialists in hepatitis C at the national and international levels. We have worked together with all the autonomous communities, the scientific societies, the mutual societies, the Carlos III Institute of Health, the penitentiary institutions, and of course with the patients, who are our true reason for being. We have optimised pharmaceutical spending through the centralized purchase of medicines, which has allowed us to invest in more than 200 therapeutic innovations, and among them one of the innovations is to combat hepatitis C. We have treated more patients than anyone in Europe with innovative drugs, and with success rates in positive sustained viral response above 97%, and we have invested EUR 1 billion in 2015, EUR 600 million in 2016, and by 2017 we expect approximately EUR 200 million more to be spent. We need a smaller investment because there are more and more patients free from the disease. Thanks to the work we are doing in the Interministerial Committee on Prices of Medicinal Products, we are achieving more and more advantageous conditions. Despite this great success of our health system, we do not settle and will continue to work, developing the plan until 2020 together with the autonomous communities, ensuring that innovative treatments remain available to all patients who need it, and also increasing data collection to make the best decisions in addressing the disease. This government will never spare any effort to invest in the health of our patients, our citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u73	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA OF CARMEN QUINTANILLA BARBA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHAT INNOVATIVE INITIATIVES IN THE FIELD OF EQUALITY DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE REGARD TO THE ENJOYMENT OF RURAL WOMEN? [[File number 180/00155]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u74	Question also addressed to the Minister of the Deputy María del Carmen Quintanilla Barba of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today the first World Conference of Women was held in Mexico City. There, women gathered from around the world asked the United Nations today to declare itself as International Women's Day. Then came the second and third conferences until twenty years later, at the Fourth World Conference of Women in Beijing City. There 30,000 women of the world gathered to ask the United Nations to talk about rural women, rural women who feed the world. Today 6 million women live in the rural society of Spain,... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u76	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u77	... women who are the social cohesion and sustainability of the peoples of Spain and of society as a whole, women who want to talk, but above all women who want to be visible in leadership, in conciliation, in the wage gap and in all those issues that have to do with sustainability, because they still live in inequality. That is why President Rajoy's government in the previous legislature approved a pioneering plan, the Rural Women's Promotion Plan, a plan that talks about the leadership of rural women in local agrarian councils, in agricultural cooperatives and in professional agrarian organizations, which today are non-existent in decision-making; a plan that speaks of conciliation, that speaks of co-responsibility, that speaks of a wage gap and that speaks of a digital divide. That's why talking about equality is synonymous with employment. That's why talking about equality is synonymous with social justice. That's why talking about equality is synonymous with economic development. Employment is freedom. Employment is equal. Therefore, Minister, what steps will the Government take to promote equality in the entrepreneurship of rural women? Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u78	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u79	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, today, on International Women's Day, I would like to pay a well-deserved tribute to all those women who lead, who work in small and medium-sized enterprises dedicated to agricultural and fisheries exploitation, with effort and talent, facing the business, family and environmental difficulties of several generations. We must make visible the fundamental role that rural women have in our society, and recognize it to support the development of their entrepreneurial talent. Rural women have the admiration of society as a whole and the support of this Government so that they can develop their talent, use new technologies to empower themselves and start a business. We must remove all obstacles to the social and labour development of women in the rural environment, and we therefore approve the Plan for the Promotion of Rural Women 2015-2018, which is still in force today, and which included measures to encourage the collaboration of rural women's associations, promote their reconciliation and co-responsibility and increase the presence of women in the posts and governing bodies of agricultural cooperatives. We are going to develop more measures in this legislature. We will develop the Rural Women's Challenge program so that women living in the rural environment can drive their own business and thus empower themselves. We will also continue to promote the project of entrepreneurship and promotion of women's leadership in decision-making bodies of societies in the agri-food sector, in order to improve the representation of women in the management bodies of agri-food cooperatives. We will continue to work on combating gender-based violence against women in rural areas. Finally, we will continue to support women who work in fisheries - shellfish, redfish and workers in processing companies - so that they can be trained, empowered and actively participate in the governing bodies of the entities representing them. We are a committed Government to women in the rural world, and we will resolutely promote women's entrepreneurship and empowerment in the rural world. We need this female talent that is in our rural world to also co-occur our country, Spain. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u80	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON FELIPUS JESUS SICILIA ALFEREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DID THE GOVERNMENT RELEVANT OF THE STATE'S GENERAL TAX FOR RESISTING TO DETERMINATE CHANGES IN THE TAX CARRIER? [[File number 180/00151]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u81	Questions now to the Minister of Justice. First of all, a question from Mr Felipe Jesús Sicilia Alferez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, in less than two and a half years you already have three prosecutors-general of the state. They don't seem to match your taste. Mr Torres Dulce had to resign because of the continuing tensions with the Government you are part of, and specifically with your department, and according to the information we have known in recent days Mrs Madrigal was not renewed because she refused to carry out the changes in the fiscal career that you required, a very serious interference, Mr Catalá. That's why I'm asking you to clarify. Is that information true? Why didn't you renew Mrs Madrigal, Minister? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u83	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u84	Thank you, President. Your Honor, you have a lot of information that I don't have, so I thank you for the information you give me here. You know why Mr. Torres-Dulce resigned and you know why it has not been renewed to Mrs. Consuelo Madrigal. Look, Dona Consuelo Madrigal has been decorated by the Government with the Grand Cross of San Raimundo de Peñafort, thanking her for her services, as well as a very long career in the Attorney General's Office. We simply started a new stage, with a parliamentary term ahead of us in which we count on his collaboration to approve important reforms in the field of justice, and the Government considered that, by his profile, of Don José Manuel Maza, to whom many of his colleagues praise, value and praise in public, he could perfectly direct the prosecution during this stage. That is no more or less, Your Honor, the reason for the appointment of Don José Manuel Maza as the new Attorney General of the State, and therefore for the non-continuity of Dona Consuelo Madrigal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Sicily.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I will give you other information that you may not know, and it is the statement that the eleven prosecutors of the Fiscal Council jointly signed, in which they denounced their interference and interference with the prosecution. Do you know that information, Minister? It would be opportune for me to read it. Because look, Mr Catalá, you cannot allow a minister to criticize on the radio the actions of two prosecutors of the Punica case simply by defending the accusation of his colleague, the president of Murcia. What's more, on top of that station you suggested possible sanctions. Nor can the President of Murcia be allowed to know the report of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office before the parties themselves because, Minister, even the spokesman of the Government of Murcia has acknowledged at a press conference that they leaked that information to him. Minister, where did that report come from? We asked the state attorney general a week ago, and you know what he told us? Let's ask you; and that's what I'm going to do. Mr. Catalá, where did the report come from, the D.A.'s office or your department? Minister, after these intrusions you cannot make us believe that you or the PP government do not press the prosecution. Do you really believe that citizens can believe that the PP does not pressure the prosecutors, after listening to the former Interior Minister say that: this the prosecution fine-tunes it; we do a management? What management did you mean, Mr Catalá, to press the prosecutors? Is that what they were going to do in that case? Minister, justice will be blind, but the citizens will not, and we see clearly what their claims are, which are no more than controlling the prosecution so as to be able to control cases of corruption affecting their party. What is needed to correct this corruption is decency and, for example, constancy calling for the resignation of the president of... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u87	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I have the statement from the Fiscal Council and I do not think you say what you say, Your Honor; you should read it to know in that way what the Fiscal Council says and what it does not say, because it does not speak of any interference or any complaint against me. [[Show a document]] Your Honor, in Spain we have a fully professional prosecutor's office, 100 per cent autonomous, which operates exclusively under the law. It seems a lie that you've been trying to say the things you've been saying for the past two weeks. It's not that I say it - which, man, could have some validity - it's that the state attorney general says it and to you it seems insufficient, it's that the majority association of prosecutors says it and to you it seems insufficient. The Fiscal Council also claims and acknowledges how the 2,400 prosecutors you are doing every day only cast doubt on their autonomy and their professional functioning. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is also said by the senior prosecutor of La Rioja or the senior prosecutor of Murcia, who have been the ones who have put themselves as paradigms of the pressures endured during these days. They have said that they have had no interference on the part of the Government, inter alia because it is not possible, there are no procedures for this to take place. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the prosecution works independently and professionally every day, and that must always be the case. We will never call the Attorney General of the State to the Council of Ministers. I hope that the Supreme Court will never annul the appointment of any State Attorney General, something that has happened before. So neither do you when you have made many mistakes in the past. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF IRENE MARIA MONTERO GIL, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED KINGDOM WE CAN COMMUNISH, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: IS THE EXISTENCE OF THE CALLED MAFIA OF THE CANAPÉ? [[File number 180/000145]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u89	Thank you very much. Question also addressed to the Minister of Justice, Mrs Irene Montero Gil, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Minister, do you know the existence of the so-called mafia of the sofa? Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u91	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, not really. I know you're very expert and sometimes I even praise you for the creative ability to talk about caste, the regime, and now about the sofa mafia. I don't know what the sofa mafia is, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u93	Mrs. Montero.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Let's see if that sounds a little bit more like it, Minister. It would be a network of influence and a network of complacency that is created around certain judicial charges, usually forming part of the judicial dome, with the effect of bringing to that judicial dome the entrepreneurial power and political power through acts - we would say - of cantat, such as the stages of football parties, such as meals in elegant restaurants or receptions in which in the end judges, magistrates, the judicial dome would begin to know the entrepreneurs who are then involved in commercial, labor and even criminal trials, as well as the high spheres of politics, which they then have to judge for cases of corruption. I don't know if there's anything about corruption in the People's Party. I'm sure you'll tell me it's conspiracy, but, you know? They end up being business, and if you can't ask the offshore minister, your colleague Soria, to see what he was doing with Judge Alba and businessman Ramírez making false evidence against Judge Victoria Rosell of the Canary Islands. [[Applauds]] And perhaps this is also related to what we have been calling the plot, with a network of high-ranking officials from the state, also leading politicians, some former presidents or former ministers, and also leading businessmen, who run this country instead of this Parliament. And I'm going to give you the example of the Aznar house. Look, as the government arrives, Villalonga to Telefónica, Alierta to Tabacalera, Martín Villa, that of the massacre of Atocha, to Endesa, in addition to Aznar's links with Mr. Fainé, of the Caixa, and the process of banking concentration and the construction companies. Francisco González in Argentaria and Blesa in Caja Madrid will also sound to you. From Genoa it was sent and from Caja Madrid and Bancaja it was financed the things you wanted. Perhaps this is related to the fact that later on in the papers of Bárcenas they appear OHL or Sacyr as companies that had made payments of 380 and 530,000 euros, or the ACS of Florentino, which leads the classification of public tenders, being its major contractors the Ministry of Development, the City of Madrid and the Community of Madrid. I want to know if you can tell me any measures to dismantle the plot... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u95	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u96	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I still don't know what the sofa plot is, what I do know is what 5,500 independent judges work every day, 2,400 prosecutors do their work with complete autonomy, and hundreds of thousands of officials work every day in the State Administration, in the Administration of Justice, in the Autonomous Communities. [[Applauds]] I do know that. I have been a public official for thirty years and I am very proud to be so, and you seem to be completely suspicious of anyone who is dedicated to what you preach, that is, to serve the general interest, to serve the State, to serve the interests of citizens. That's what officials do every day, every morning, every afternoon, and you just raise suspicions that judges, prosecutors, officials are in the service of interest to whom, Your Honor? You can't give a list of concatenated facts without any proof, without any accreditation. It's funny how you, when it goes well, when you have sentences in your favor - and I think it's very good that you have them -. It seems to them that justice is highly recommended, they even say that we have to go to justice rather than raise halos of suspicion, and yet when it does not go so well, it seems to them that justice is partial, that we are not equal before the law, that there is no democracy in Spain. I think they should have a more balanced and equidistant position. I thought you were going to come here and make us some proposal to improve justice, and we would be delighted; I thought we were going to talk about what to do to not have black scholarships, what we were going to do to not have black recruits without discharge in Social Security, how we were going to do not to speculate with public housing. [[Applauds]] But it seems not, that's not what we're going to talk about. Your Honor, in Spain there is independent justice, there is equal justice for all, and that works every day, and not because the Minister of Justice says it or because the government does it, there is because 5,500 judges every day do their work with total qualification, 2,400 prosecutors, because there are institutions and there is a Constitution that guarantees the independence of the public authorities, and that works no matter how much some weigh and want to change it and give a democratic blow. I believe that in Spain the institutions work very well, Your Honor. [[Applause.-Several Members: Very well]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u97	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ISSIDER MANUEL MARTÍNEZ OBLANCA, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF ACHIEVEMENT AND PUBLIC SERVICE: WHAT CHANGE MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE PROVIDED FOR IN HIS STABILITY POLICY TO GUARANTEE THE EFFECTIVE COMPLIANCE OF EUROPEAN CONVERGENCY OBJECTIVES AS WELL AS THE CONSTITUTIONAL PRINCIPLE OF SOLIDARITY, BY KNOWING THE DATA SITTING AT ASSURANCE IN THE LESS COMPETITIVE BLOCK OF THE EUROPEAN UNION? [[EU]] [[File number 180/000141]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u98	Question to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mr Isidro Manuel Martínez Oblanca, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u99	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister of Finance and Public Service. Last week, the European Commission published its regional competitiveness index, which has highlighted the need for stronger policies to ensure that economic growth and job creation reach all Spaniards, and to correct a negative trend that has dragged Asturias, my home community, into queues, in the lowest competitiveness bloc in the European Union as a whole, among other bad indicators such as population, GDP, reduction in unemployment and also the chronic last place in the national labour force rate. I therefore ask you, Mr Montoro, what measures the Government will take to ensure that Asturias can meet the European convergence criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u100	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Martínez Oblanca, the report to which he refers, like all these reports, must certainly be stimulating for the Government and for all those present, for all the parliamentary groups in this House, in order to implement measures that improve the competitiveness of Asturias and of Spain as a whole. I must also say that it is a complex report that draws up a so-called competitiveness index from seventy-four different indicators - they are many indicators - and each of them refers to a different date. Most of them relate to the dates 2012 to 2014 and therefore do not reflect the improvement of Spain's economic growth, job creation and competitiveness. I am therefore convinced that, as we have successive editions of this type of report, Asturias and the rest of the autonomous communities of the regions of Spain will appear in better positions of competitiveness. For this we are going to bring in general state budgets and we are going to promote the use of European funds. I would like to remind you and the House that, in particular for Asturias, the ERDF and the European Social Fund have been programmed for the period 2014-2020, with a budget of more than EUR 507 million. I would also like to point out that the autonomous community will directly manage 70.8% of the total funds to be implemented in the region. Therefore, with the implementation of this programme, which is a convergence programme within the European Union, together with the General Budgets of the State for 2017, we are convinced that it will promote, that it will contribute to the improvement of the competitiveness of the Asturian economy and of the Spanish economy as a whole. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u103	Thank you very much. The improvement of our positions in this significant European official indicator depends on compliance with the constitutional principles and also on the government's guarantee of solidarity between our nationalities and regions. To draw up this significant regional index, as you pointed out, the European Union has analysed a number of points and I would like to quote the case of Asturias. In terms of infrastructure, our community is ranked 222 in Europe, almost at the end of the table, which means that urgent measures of change and solidarity, which we are demanding from Forum, are needed to complete the great public works already begun, to put them into service and try to correct our declining competitiveness because, otherwise, the gap between communities will continue to widen and the divergence with Europe will increase. Minister, as you pointed out, in the coming weeks the government will bring to this House the general budgets of 2017, which have to gather the precise and foreseen commitments in our government pact as a point of inflection and change so that Asturias can improve its economy, create employment and scale towards European convergence, from which, as the data unequivocally show, it is much more distant every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u104	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, I fully agree with you. Infrastructure in Asturias and many other parts of Spain must continue to be improved and the pact that we have acquired with Forum regarding the development of this legislature and in particular with regard to the General Budgets of the State must be complied with. There's no doubt to your honor that we're going to comply. It's the will of the government... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u106	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANGELES ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: IS THE GOVERNMENT READY TO REVOCATE THE STATEMENT OF PUBLIC USE OF THE ASSOCIATIONS PROMOTING DISCRIMINATION? [[File number 180/000152]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u107	Question to the Minister for the Interior. Question by María Ángeles Álvarez Álvarez, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Ms ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Minister, the question is whether the Government is prepared to revoke the declaration of public utility of associations promoting discrimination. This is a general question. And as a specific matter, I would like to say that we have asked you in writing to specifically revoke that of the organization Make You Hear. All I'm going to ask is that you don't tell us, as Minister Méndez de Vigo has done so far, that Interior will proceed if there is a judicial decision, because you are a judge and you know perfectly well that this has nothing to do with judicial decisions. So tell us whether or not you intend to revoke public utility to an organization that attacks constitutional values and does not, of course, meet the requirements to be of public utility. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u108	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u109	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Álvarez, in the Ministry of the Interior, as you are well aware, the procedures for revoking the declarations of public utility of those associations which fail to meet the requirements which are essential and which were taken into account in granting you the declaration of public utility are instructed on a regular basis. Therefore, generally speaking, it is associations that discriminate on the basis of birth, sex, race, religion, opinion or any other personal or social circumstance or condition; that is so, provided that it is accredited and that the appropriate file and procedure are investigated.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alvarez. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: I want to understand, then, that you are going to start and start this dossier, because we do not believe that it is a coincidence that your ministry has given public benefit to those who promote discrimination and in parallel withdraw it to organizations such as the Family Planning Federation, which is an organization that promotes equality and is also a fundamental ally of the State in sexual and reproductive health strategies. We don't think this is random. You know why? Because his predecessor, Mr Fernández Díaz, not only used the Ministry of the Interior for his political interests, we know that he has also done so to favor those who represent the ideal of his religious inclinations. We already knew which bus Mr. Fernández Díaz was on, now we want to know which bus you're on. Because every day that happens without revoking the public utility of that organization it is you who are making all Spaniards pay for the campaigns of discrimination and hatred. Therefore, it is you who have to get off that bus and you have to make the State also get off. That's your responsibility. It must make the Ministry of the Interior cease to be the necessary collaborator of each of the infamous campaigns of this organization. You know why? Because you cannot allow discrimination to be of public benefit, that is your responsibility. And if you keep this situation for longer, you'd be a political accomplice... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Alvarez. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u112	Thank you, President. Mrs Alvarez, I will tell you that both this minister and the government have boarded the bus of respect for differences and diversity, because we understand that it is a basic and irrefutable principle of democratic societies - make whatever gestures you make -. However, the Government acts rigorously and scrupulously by adapting to the law, and you know it. It is the officials who, without a doubt, have to open the appropriate files. We will therefore be accountable as the law provides for its compliance. We will never use personal or arbitrary or discretionary opinions to substantiate the granting or revocation of the declaration of public utility. We will always use the law as the principles of the Supreme Court's jurisprudence mark. We firmly believe that sexuality should never be the subject of confrontation in society, let alone that of children. So, at least let's leave the kids alone. The association Hazte Oír, Mrs Alvarez, was registered in the National Register of Associations in 2001, eleven years later requested the declaration of public utility, it was granted in 2013 after having objectively documented the fulfillment of each and every requirement. Regardless of whether the prosecutor's office has intervened and is familiar with a court, the Ministry of the Interior will also examine whether some of the principles that are required as fundamental to the concession have been breached and, in that case, the revocation will take place. But, I insist, always complying with the law and not acting arbitrarily or discretionaryly, as it seems that some groups want it to act. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u113	Thank you very much. - of Mrs Noelia Vera Ruiz-Herrera, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States, we can in any way form the Minister of Foment: what management has the Ministry of Foment carried out to find a negotiated health care for the reform of the Estiba? [[File number 180/000146]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u114	Question to the Minister for Development. Question by Mrs Noelia Vera Ruiz-Herrera, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u115	Minister, very direct: what steps will the ministry take to seek a negotiated exit to the greenhouse reform?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u116	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, the Government has been engaged for two years in dialogue and working with trade unions and employers to reach an agreement that will comply with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u118	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vera.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u119	Minister, I think this is not the case. I believe that you have been defending this decree with your fingernails and teeth for a long time and that it has become a more personal matter than a defence of the interests of this country. But what you are doing - and you know it very well - is putting social peace at risk in ports, putting the future of 6,000 families in this country at risk, putting a strategic sector at risk for this country and you are also being totally irresponsible in strictly economic terms. What he is demonstrating, bringing to this Congress a decree that he has not even negotiated with parliamentary groups or with the employer - which, by the way, he has managed to divide into two - or with the workers, is that he prefers to lead us to a social conflict of this magnitude so as not to do what everyone is telling him to do for common sense, which is that he really feels like negotiating with the parties involved. You are making excuses for all the time we have to comply with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. It turns out that this is not true, because you know as well as I do that the decree and its small letter goes far beyond what you are saying that sentence, and what you are trying to do is to consolidate a model of precariousness for the sector - which is a sector that also gives many benefits and is very productive - through the consolidation of the model of temporary work enterprises; moreover, it intends to make an undercover ERE that will leave, under your responsibility, on the street more than 6,000 families in this country, and this has to be known by the people. This is not only unfair, it is economically clumsy. You are super worried about what you can assume and what you can cost us a fine from the European Union for this strike and what it can cost the strike itself, which is 50 million euros a day, which is a lot of money. But it turns out that his layoffs - which he also intends to pay with public money of all and all when he is a private sector - cost seven times more, which is 350 million euros. So, I am obliged to remind you, Minister, that you are the minister and the public representative of the Spanish and the Spanish, not your friends from the European Union, that you are trying to carry a sector that is strategic for this country and that, as I said, is productive thanks to the work of the people who put their efforts to lift this country every day. And since you don't listen to them or read the banners, I'm telling you, our position is that not a step back... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u120	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u121	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yesterday the Commissioner for Transport, Mrs Bulc, came to this House to have a meeting with you, with all the political groups. It was very clear and very strong in the approaches. He said, first, that the Government is obliged to comply with a sentence. This is not a personal matter, it is not even something the Government wants to do; we are obliged to do so. It is a sentence that says something as rare as that in this country a company can freely hire its workers. Therefore, it is not a voluntary issue, it is a question of compulsory compliance. Secondly, he said that the royal decree-law strictly complies with the sentence, which does not go beyond. And I want to tell you that in order to get to that royal decree-law we have been negotiating with trade unions and employers for two years, and that we have brought to the European Commission each and every one of the approaches that the trade unions have told us. And the real decree-law reaches the limit that the European Commission allows us, has been made more flexible in favour of the workers, but it cannot go beyond that, and is unique and exclusively in keeping with that sentence. The Commissioner said a third thing: she urged them to approve the validation of the royal decree on a given date of 24 March. And he said that if they do not, the consequences are clear, it is not because we want it, but because it is so established by the court: more fines. So far we owe 23 million euros of all Spaniards and from that second sentence will be 134,000 euros a day. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is in your hand that Spain does not receive this fine and the Spanish do not have to pay out of their pocket millions and millions of euros. Finally, it encouraged social dialogue. The Government had given a margin to allow agreement on the basis of job maintenance and on the ability of employers to organize work, and the Ministry of Employment had also offered to offer support measures for such maintenance. Workers have within their reach, if what concerns them is the maintenance of employment, reach that agreement, if what concerns them is the maintenance of the status quo, of course, they will not move a finger. Today in Algeciras, 1,500 workers work and none of them are women. You wear a bracelet today and more than a bracelet you should have been worried about not supporting women's discrimination at work as you're supporting in... [[Let's give it up.-Rumores.-A honourable Member: Very well! Yes, sir!]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF JOAQIN ALBALADEJO MARTINEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE ACTIVATION OF THE PAST YEAR 2016? [[File number 180/00156]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u122	Question by Mr Joaquín Albaladejo Martínez of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress also to the Minister of Development. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Minister. Very important work has been done in the field of nautical safety. I must say that in recent years progress has been made at that level in a very considerable way. Just remember what was one of the last interventions in this Chamber of the illustrious deputy Torrevejense who was Joaquín Chapaprieta and Torregrosa and his concern at his time in relation to what was very important in his land, in the Castilian speaking region of the Vega Baja del Segura and especially on his coast, on the coast of Torrevieja. There were a number of mythical boats such as the Violin, Paula and Alejo Valero, among others, that had more than 500 families linked to the world of fishing in the cozobra and in fear when those boats went out to sea. More than 80 years have passed and there is a significant change. Now on the coast of the Spanish-speaking area of the Vega Baja del Segura region, there is actually not so much fishing there, but there are crowds, more than three thousand mooring points, of nautical sports boats in which a great activity is carried out both tourism and economic as well as generating employment. And the big difference in eighty years, ladies and gentlemen, is that today indeed those who go out to sea have the certainty and the certainty that there is a service, Sasemar, with more than 1,500 employees who are twenty-four hours a day ensuring the safety of those who enjoy our shores and who also have the certainty and safety in the use and enjoyment of the sea. For all this, I am pleased to ask the Minister of Development what his assessment is, the assessment of the Government of Spain regarding the management developed by Sasemar during 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u124	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u125	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Albaladejo. As you know, Salvamento Marítimo is a public enterprise that depends on the Ministry of Development, which is largely unknown, on the other hand, with a team of professionals of more than 1,600 workers who alert the 24 hours to respond to maritime emergencies. During the year 2016 Sasemar coordinated the rescue, assistance or search of nearly 18,000 people, a total of almost 5,700 maritime actions attended throughout Spain. For this purpose, it has a number of means, a very important endowment, for which the ministry has been carrying out a great deal of budgetary effort, including 11 helicopter bases, 3 aircraft, 14 vessels, 59 vessels, 20 focal points and a national focal point. We must all be proud to have such a high-quality maritime emergency response system, which, of course, sometimes has to be done under extremely adverse weather and maritime conditions. As an example, it is enough to remember what happened a few days ago in early February with the rescue of 12 crew members from the Gure Uxua fishery fifty miles from the Asturian coast. Also Salvamento Marítimo not only responds to these emergency situations, but also has an important activity in preventive actions of traffic control, in training and in the field of innovation and applied research. I firmly believe that we have in Spain a system of response to this kind of solid and efficient emergencies, and I would like to take this moment to congratulate and convey my full appreciation to the professionals who carry out this very important work. So the government's balance sheet, if I tell you it's frankly positive. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u126	Thank you very much. - OF THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT THE SUBJECT OF MINIMUM PENSIONS IN 2017 DOES NOT EXPECT A LOSS OF POWER PURCHASING? [[File number 180/000150]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u127	Question to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. Question by Mr Miguel Ángel Heredia Díaz from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, does your Government consider that minimum pensions are not going to lose purchasing power during this year?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u129	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. Member, minimum pensions in Spain and the rest of the pensions have risen every year from 2012 to this year. This has been done by law, because by law in Spain pensions will always rise. Heredia, 64% of those who receive a minimum pension are women and today is International Women's Day. Thanks to the maternity supplement that we launched in 2016, seven out of ten women who retire in Spain with a minimum pension have had access to a pension supplement. Do you know what that means? For example, in 2016, pensions for women with a minimum pension increased by an average of 6%. Moreover, 180,000 women who have retired in our country since 1 January 2016 have a pension supplement. That means that one in two has been able to raise their pension to 15%. On International Women's Day we must recognize with pride that thanks to the fact that we have launched the maternity supplement since 2016 in Spain in a single year has reduced the gender gap in pensions by 11%. Therefore, there are more and better pensions every day in Spain and a greater commitment to those who receive a minimum pension - six out of ten Spaniards - who are women. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Heredia.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u132	Minister, Rajoy said in this House that pensions had gained purchasing power last year. That's not true, and you know it. Our elders today are 20% poorer than five years ago. They have increased VAT and IBI and this year they are going to raise the bill of 100 euros light, apart from that for the first time they have to pay for their medicines and they have withdrawn more than 400 medicines from the National Health System. The other day Maria, a seventy-year-old Malagasy woman, told me that before the cold the medicines cost her nothing and now the medicines for a cold cost her almost 50 euros, a pension of 600. And worse they have gone to those who have a minimum pension in our country: 2.5 million, to whom this year they have raised the pension just over 1 euro. Oliva Díaz has been raised by 1.30 euros. Does it seem to you, Minister, that this rise, especially since prices have risen by 3% in January and by another 3% in February? With the socialist governments minimum pensions rose every year; on average 7 % annually, so minimum pensions rose twenty-eight times more than with Rajoy. Twenty-eight. That's reality; numbers don't lie, you do. And I want to tell you, so much so that you talk about inheritance, that the only inheritance left to you by the socialist government was more than 70 billion in the pension fund, which has been squandered. [[Applauds]] On International Women's Day, I want to say that women in our country have a 40% lower pension than men. You have left without a pension worthy of 163,000 family carers of the Dependency Act, to whom you have removed Social Security, and you have pursued as if they were criminals the returning migrant pensioners while passing tax amnesty for the great defrauders of this country. [[Applauds]] That is what you have done and your Government has also vetoed a 1.2% increase in pensions this year. What is your recipe, that of your friend Rajoy, who pretends that the Spaniards do not retire until the age of seventy? I will tell you, Minister: You will pass into history because you are the foreman of precarious employment and miserable jobs and because you are the graveyard of decent pensions in our country... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u133	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Heredia, a little humility. Lessons on pensions The Socialist Party cannot give us any, because it froze them. [[Applauds]] It has been the only party in the history of democracy that has frozen pensions in our country. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u135	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u136	Mr Heredia, only one year of pension freezing resulted in a loss of purchasing power for pensioners of EUR 2.7 billion. That is the reality while with Mariano Rajoy and the People's Party every year they have raised pensions and won more than 1 billion euros of purchasing power in a very difficult scenario. I'll tell you more. Thanks to the fact that we did not ask for the ransom, you have not lowered your pensions in Spain and you have left us on the edge of the cliff. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u137	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Sofia Fernández Castanón, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, we can, in common, form the Minister of Education, Culture and Deportation. Does the Ministry of Education, Culture and Deportation consider that our Academic Curriculum assumes the responsibility of educating in the same gender and against Machist violence? [[File number 180/000147]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u138	Questions to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Question by Mrs Sofía Fernández Castañón, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u139	Is it considered by the ministry that our academic curriculum assumes the responsibility to educate on gender equality and against macho violence? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u140	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u141	Madam President, Your Honor, good morning. I thank you for asking me this question on a day like today, when we commemorate International Women's Working Day. I am also pleased to reply that all basic Spanish educational planning is based on the recognition of education as a guarantee of respect for and promotion of equal rights and opportunities for women and men and the repulse of all violence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u142	Thank you very much. Mrs. Fernández Castañón.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u143	We say that education is fundamental to combating sexist violence and gender inequality, but then what? Right now, there is no uniform regulatory, economic and curriculum formulation in the State for the specific prevention of male-based violence. There is no training programme on gender equality and prevention of male-based violence for teachers to be able to incorporate prevention in classrooms in a solvent and cross-cutting manner. What does exist is a great variability between the autonomous communities and also between classrooms and centres, since the transversality of these contents is not concrete or monitored and often depends on the good will - and less evil that there is good will - of the teachers and the personal commitment of the teacher. The contribution of women to the social common is undervalued in the curriculum, which continues to tend to make men mostly represented by invisibilizing pioneers and those referring to science, history, culture and literature. Do we really believe that we are educating on equal terms when out of every hundred proper names that are studied in compulsory secondary education ninety-three are men and only seven are women? Do we really believe that we are educating on equal terms and telling our boys and girls, our boys, that we have built the world men and women alike? The images and sexist stereotypes are rampant in cultural production and we are very concerned, in music, in cinema, etc. But what critical tools are we going to give them? Or do we propose to censor contents instead of giving them critical material for them to think freely? It increases harassment and gender-based violence among adolescents, who often do not detect being suffering from it, and in addition, new forms of clothing control, exits or relationships are implemented through social networks and telematic tools. I ask you quickly: if foundations and professionals warn us of the problem of increasing sexist violence among adolescents, what do the Government have in mind to combat the problem in the classroom? How is education guaranteed on equal terms if the specific content to be promoted is dealt with in a partial, non-specific way and without ensuring its fulfilment, or without the teacher being trained to do so? I'd quote you something that says Lomce, but it won't give me time. I think we need to take education seriously, because, if not, it's going to seem like maybe we're leaving the problem to others and kicking forward. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u144	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u145	Thank you, Your Honor. Spanish laws already provide for effective equality between men and women, as well as the prevention of gender-based violence. This is recognized in article 1 of the Education Act 2006 and 2013 and is also covered by the functions of the educational inspection. The two Royal Decrees of 2014 set out the basic curriculum development for primary, secondary and high school education. In both it is introduced as an objective to achieve that the student - and I quote textually - learn to respect the gender difference and the equality of rights and opportunities between them, rejecting discrimination against persons on the basis of sex and any stereotypes that imply discrimination between men and women, as well as any manifestation of violence against women. These objectives are also included in vocational training. Your Honor, gender inequality and gender-based violence are much more complex problems than curriculum adaptation, and so is their solution. I believe that we in this House now have useful political instruments that go in that direction. One of the pacts that the President of the Government put on the table at the investiture session was the pact against gender-based violence. A committee is going to study this in this House and I think that is the place to make proposals that are effective. I also pledge, Your Honor, to present shortly in the Autonomous Communities, to which you referred in your speech, a school cohabitation plan to see how to eradicate inequalities and violence in promoting cohabitation and opportunities from school and education. I believe that there is a fundamental issue in all of this, which is awareness-raising. Einstein said education is all that remains in us when we forget what we learned at school. We need to raise awareness, as we have raised awareness on other issues - for example, I think about the fight against drugs - in order to know how we have to fight it. It starts from school, starts from the family, and I believe that this social and educational pact, on which we are working in this House, is a good place to make effective proposals to combat it. There you will find us, Your Honor. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u146	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF FELIX ALVAREZ PALLEIRO, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK SOMETHING TO REGULATE THE ONLINE REVENUE? [[File number 180/000144]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u147	Question also addressed to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport, Mr Félix Alvárez Palleiro, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor. Mr ÁLVAREZ PALLEIRO: Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, does the government intend to take any steps to regulate the resale of online tickets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u148	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u149	Thank you, Your Honor. State regulation of shows in Spain dates back to 1982, when the World Cup was held. Then, only street sales were regulated. It is true that since then things have changed a lot, and now it is no longer the old street foot, which has become a simple click from a computer or smartphone. It is true, you all know, that this ministry has recorded the problems that have just been presented with concerts such as Sabina or Alejandro Sanz. We are reflecting on this, Your Honor, because I believe we have to act. Indeed, producers must be protected, but above all consumers, who are harmed by abusive prices through this online resale. We will therefore work on it and, of course, listen very carefully to what your honor and other groups in this House have to say.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Alvarez Palleiro. Mr ÁLVAREZ PALLEIRO: Thank you, Minister, but we are going to reality. Look, the tickets for the concerts that are going to take place here, in Madrid, in June, by Alejandro Sanz and Joaquín Sabina, were exhausted in just an hour in the official channels, and this was reflected in the official websites. But look, just yesterday, at about eight o'clock in the afternoon, on two web pages I was offered the possibility of acquiring hundreds and hundreds of these tickets; specifically, for Joaquín Sabina, on Wednesday 21, tickets worth 99 euros, offered to me at 527.40 euros, and those of Alejandro Sanz, at 800 euros. We are distorting the market, Minister. It is allowing certain people, about the effort and the work of artists, promoters and producers, to be enriched in a practically immoral way, speculating with the illusions and emotions of the people, but above all we are limiting access to these cultural events to people who have more adjusted economic resources, for the benefit of those who have a much more relaxed economic situation. I would like you to commit yourself to us here and now, for the sake of culture, to talk to the appropriate person, because this certainly also has to be the competence of the Minister of the Interior, and to sit at a table so that all the actors in this bad film can come to an agreement and the resale is regulated for the entries of those people who, unable to attend those events, sell them honestly and safely, ending with this speculative resale that is immoral. We cannot be with one hand demanding that VAT be reduced to 10% in cultural shows - requirement 89 of the 150 that you signed in the pact with Citizens - and on the other hand allow this type of abusive resale that triggers ticket prices. You have ended up - to see if we fix it in this legislature - with copyright revenues, with compensation for private copying; piracy continues to encamp in its breadth and the only reduct that remains for our artists and singers, who are the live shows, is subject to this abusive and immoral speculation. So I hope they get to work as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u151	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u152	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your intervention. I want to tell you that this minister shares what you just said. I share your concern that this is indeed an abusive practice. We cannot ban the online resale, it would be to put doors to the countryside - if we ban it in Spain, it could be done from any other country - but it is necessary to regulate it to avoid abusive prices and to prevent the culture, which is a precious good for all, in the end is unaffordable for people who cannot afford it. The case that you have put I already knew him, because one of my collaborators has tried the same as you, going to one of those concerts, and they have charged him an absolutely astronomical price. So you were asking me to commit and I'm committing; I'm going to do it. It is true that here we are in conflict with the regulation of the autonomous communities, which are competent in the field of spectacles, and with several ministerial departments, but I undertake from the Ministry of Culture to agree on them and to see what other examples there are. As you know, there is the British example and there is the German example and the French case, which is currently in the French Senate. It's a problem that worries everywhere. I think that's what politicians have to do. When new problems arise precisely because of technological progress, we must also give new solutions. I pledge to do so in collaboration with the various ministerial departments and, of course, I will be very pleased to receive any suggestions from the political groups in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u153	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE DON JOSÉ JAIME ALONSO DÍAZ-Guerra, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND DEPORTE: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE CONMEMORATION OF THE IV CENTER OF THE DEATH OF MIGUEL DE CERVANTES? [[File number 180/000157]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u154	Question also addressed to the Minister, Mr José Jaime Alonso Díaz-Guerra, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, over the past year hundreds of events and cultural activities have been held to commemorate the fourth centenary of the death of Miguel de Cervantes. The most universal Spaniard, creator of the modern novel, lived 400 years ago and remains alive through his work and mainly his values, as necessary in his time as they are in the present time. In the words of his majesty the king: Cervantes has defined as no one the essence of what it means to be Spanish. This rich and diverse identity, intrinsic to the Spanish people, rides to the loins of Rocinante through the fields of Castile and the extensive mansoga plain personified in the craziest rope, armed with the shield of justice and the spear of freedom. The involvement of public and private institutions in the sum of resources, ingenuity and illusion has generated a rich program that, brilliantly promoted by the National Commission, has accentuated the passion and influence of the Cervanian heritage. Over the past year, thanks to the Government of Spain and the involvement of Spanish-Manchegian society, Quixote has been breathing again in my country. He has lived with Cervantes, as Cervantes wrote, lived and loved in Castile-La Mancha. Therefore, Minister, what is the government's assessment of the commemoration of the fourth centenary of the death of Miguel de Cervantes? [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u156	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, the Government's assessment of the activities and acts carried out on the occasion of the commemoration of the fourth centenary of the death of Don Miguel is very positive. You have said this very well, universal vocation; that is why the Government at the time set up this National Commission, whose great sign of identity has been the involvement of the various administrations. This is not an achievement of the Government, it is an achievement of all, of the administrations involved - very particularly the Castilian-Manchega to which you have referred - but also of civil society. There have been millions of events that have been scheduled and that are not on the ministry's website. The Ministry's website contains a number of events, including those that we have recorded, those that have received some assistance or those that have requested the march of the National Commission: 301 activities collected in the Plan of Cultural Activities, 123 projects of publications and studies, 491 projects that translate into thousands of activities worldwide. Apart from the figures, what I wanted to highlight from this commemoration is how civil society has participated, how people have participated, how in schools the life and work of Don Miguel de Cervantes has been discussed again, and we have also wanted to do so not only from the Spanish but from the Spanish. I think that irradiation to Latin America has also been very important to explain not only the work but also the life of Don Miguel, with which the Spaniards feel so identified. And since there are still events of this commemoration, I would like to emphasize that finally on April 23 of this year we will give the Cervantes prize to Don Eduardo Mendoza. Tax incentives have also played an important role when it comes to doing so. I would not like to finish my speech without highlighting the presence of his majesty the kings. They opened the year at the National Library with a great exhibition and closed it at the Royal Palace in an event that was really exciting. I remember the great actor José Luis Gómez reading the last pages of the Quixote to all of us who were there, and those who also had the fortune of being able to watch it on television I'm sure they were shocked. Therefore, we are satisfied, especially because we believe that after this year we will know more and better - and will like more - the work of Don Miguel de Cervantes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u158	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u159	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Firstly, urgent questioning by the Socialist Parliamentary Group of the policy that the Government intends to adopt with regard to the model of recruitment of predoctoral research staff. For your defence, Mr Urquizu Sancho has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u160	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, the question that my group, the Socialist Group, is bringing today has to do with something that you yourself amended last Friday. They rectified about a decision they had made almost a year ago, back on February 15, 2016, in a publication of the official Social Security bulletin, when they began to consider that the predoctoral fellows, who were what they were before - now workers and young researchers - were no longer people hired by work and services and became in practice. It is a decision that these young people have recently seen on their payrolls, but their rectification does not exempt them from giving explanations. If we closed the door to your clarifications, the truth would remain out there, and out of respect for the institutions and the citizens and especially for all those young researchers to whom you have changed your condition, we want you to explain to us what has happened, and we want you to do so in Parliament, before the representatives of the citizenry. I don't know if they're aware of the gravity of their actions. You changed the job status of young researchers without talking to them, without reflecting on the consequences not only for them but also for science, and you brought many of these young researchers back to the past. [[The lady]] That is a very wrong way of doing politics, because it is not talking, it is not measuring the consequences of a decision and it also looks more to the past than to the future, but of course it is not the first time that you act like this. In the background you have rectified because we have caught you. What would have happened if all those young investigators hadn't raised their voices? What would have happened if my group had not brought this inquiry urgently? For you, maybe it was just a legal change. It might seem that they did not give much importance to this decision, since they neither opened a debate nor communicated it to those affected, perhaps precisely because, as they knew what they were doing, they carried it out nightly and light-heartedly. What has been discussed has not only been a change in working conditions that could affect pre-doctoral researchers, who too; they fear that these scientists have more rights than they already have and have therefore taken away from them the only thing they had: their status as workers. Dedicating oneself to science - and someone who has devoted a time of his life to it tells you - has enormous rewards: the passion to ask questions, to be curious about the world in which you live, to answer the intrigues with which we have been living for many years. They are motivations with which thousands of researchers wake up every morning. He also has his sacrifices of course. But in this life story, 2006 was a turning point for many of these researchers. Many of them - among whom I was - were considered mere fellows, and it was Royal Decree 63/2016 that allowed them to enter the General Social Security Regime, and a few years later, in the Science Act of 2011, they were considered workers. Look, from this account we draw some conclusions. The first is that my group has a very different model of society than its own. We, in addition to the economic cost, are very concerned about people. We believe that the idea of citizenship is closely associated with one's rights and recognition of society. That is why we call scientists workers, be in whatever stage they are. We think research is a beautiful job. This is what the vast majority of Spaniards see and you have made the mistake of taking away this recognition temporarily. I don't know if you're aware of what this means. It is very serious and has a lot to do with our principles and convictions. Today we are celebrating International Women's Day, and my group is deeply satisfied with all that has contributed to the defence of women's rights. We have a long way to go, of course; there are still five hundred million women in the world today who still do not know how to read or write. This makes them more vulnerable to poverty, for example. For my group, these data are of the utmost concern, because what moves and moves us is that we want to live in a society in which citizens own their destiny. And speaking of women and science, remember Marie Curie, who won her Nobel Prize in Physics at the age of thirty-six. It is an age similar to or close to that of many of those young predoctoral researchers, and surely much of what was done at that scientific stage had to do with much of that Nobel Prize in Physics, so we're not talking about anything. It's dignity, Minister. It is a society where the idea of citizenship governs each of our decisions. That is why when someone asks us to step back in people's rights, what you would expect from your Government is to defend them. Have you acted like this? Secondly, they cannot tell us that this is the result of an economic situation. The Science Act is from 2011. It's not just any year. When you look at the economic situation our country has been through since the great recession began, 2011 is a very significant year. You mean to tell me that now, when the economy is growing, you can't call the researchers workers? When the situation in this country was very difficult, we gave the scientists rights. This is one of the many things that differentiate us: we believe deeply in science and we have demonstrated it in every decision we have made when we have had occasion. Basically it's not just the economy, it's also your country project. We see in science one of the most important pillars of our economic model. We want to live in a country where the economy doesn't run away from what I do cheaper, but I do it better. For this we need scientists, we need knowledge, we need a productive fabric that is enriched by what decent workers produce. When we talk about growth policies, we talk about this. And what country do you want to live in? We want to win the future of this country and we want to do so by relying on science, innovation and research. Look a little beyond the present. What do you see? How do you imagine Spain in a few decades? What role do science and scientists play in this future? Spain has excellent research centres and excellent professionals in this field. What messages have many of the young researchers who may be thinking about engaging in such a beautiful profession have sent? Are you aware of the mistake you've made? You have had a great blindness in this. You have not realized that by curtailing the rights of scientists, by cutting back on science, you are mortgageing the future of the next generations, you are putting limits on the future of our country. I'll tell you another way. If they think we're going to win the future without scientists and researchers, they're completely wrong. Let me add one more thing to this reflection, Minister. We want all those who contribute to that future to be recognized as what they are, decent workers. And there's a third idea I want to convey to you. Uncertainty. Science cannot work with uncertainty. A person who wants to devote himself to the investigation has to have certainties. What's a research career like in our country? Under what conditions will he work throughout his life? How are the beginnings in this exciting task? Who can be hired and under what conditions? You, with this decision, have added more uncertainty to the anxiety and discomfort that exists in the Spanish scientific world. With this erratic behavior they have added uncertainty to these brilliant young researchers, many of whom have left our country in recent years. With your decisions you have come to say that your future is very uncertain in Spain. We have one of the best generations of scientists and you are not realizing it. What would have happened if we hadn't caught them in these changes from the predoctoral investigators? What would have been the next decision regarding science workers? Too much uncertainty for a group dedicated to producing certainties. But besides all this, I'm going to tell you something else. They're obeying the law. It is strange that you, who are constantly appealing to the rule of law, are not applying existing legislation in this area. They comply with article 21 of the Science Act and begin to draw up a contract for a predoctoral investigator. They've had years to do it, almost six years. Why is it costing them so much? What paralyzes you in this task? Get to work on a scientific career, establish the different steps a researcher must take, offer a horizon of certainty and, above all, do not make it harder for those who already have it very difficult, who are young people. They have been the ones who have been paying for the consequences of the crisis, and this is of particular concern to my group. What is most serious is that on many occasions it has been their decisions that have aggravated the situation facing young people. An example of what I'm telling you is what brings us here today in this inquiry. It has been a political decision of his Government that has sought to undermine the rights of young scientists. I'm just finishing up, Minister. Take very seriously everything that I'm saying to you. Two months ago I asked him about the Aneca, and today his director is no longer in his post because he resigned. Two weeks ago I asked him about the university fellows, and today many of them have not yet claimed the full amount of their scholarship. Right now we are talking about young researchers, and tomorrow they have a general strike in teaching. Something must be doing very wrong when you have the whole educational community so angry with you. Listen, dialogue, attend to the problems of parents, students, teachers. I understand that being a spokesman for this government is a task that takes a lot of work, but education needs serious and rigorous management. Have a little more judgment and legislate thinking about the Spanish. In politics, it is not a question of meeting the record every day, but of having a political project in which the idea of citizenship is our main concern. In short, it is true that you have rectified, but the world of science deserves an explanation. The setback they have attempted to implement with this change in the predoctoral researchers' contribution model is worrisome, it says a lot about their idea of science, but not only that, it says a lot about their task of government. There is a popular saying that correcting is wise, what happens is that when you do it every day you show a great clumsiness. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u161	Thank you very much, Mr Urquizu. Minister for Education, Culture and Sport, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u162	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Urquizu, I thank you for the initiative you have taken, because it does seem to me that the parliamentary seat is the right place to make a clarification, to send a message of tranquillity to the predoctoral researchers; I am sure that this is also your objective and your interest, to give certainty and to give tranquillity. Against uncertainty the only antidote I know is clarity, and in this case it is necessary to be rigorous, especially in these matters. We are dealing with a very specific issue - the one raised by Mr Urquizu - which affects several government institutions and departments, as it concerns a specific form of recruitment for research staff under Act No. 14/2001 of 11 June 2001 on science, technology and innovation. It is a type of contract aimed at carrying out research tasks within doctoral studies, which is financed through calls for R & D & i aid from the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness, but, of course, because it affects the field of higher education and universities, it is also of the utmost interest to the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport. Since the 10th Legislature, in which we have given impetus to this type of contract, our goal as a government has been to continue and promote its use, because this is how we understand that R & D+i policy should be, a policy in which we work in coordination with the government departments involved in carrying it out. Since then, more than 11,400 predoctoral contracts have been signed, in particular 11,419. In the second half of 2016 alone, almost fifteen times more predoctoral contracts were signed than in the equivalent period of 2011, something that should be used to show the support that the Government is offering not only to these types of contracts but to the investigative activity in this country. Your Honour, this type of contract has also contributed to a remarkable increase in research employment, 11.6% since 2011, a very positive figure considering the situation we have been through for the past five years and to which you and your group are not at all outsiders. Your Honor, the Science Act to which you referred in your speech, in your explanatory statement and in your article 21 points out on this type of contract that it is a fixed-term contract, up to four years or up to six in the case of persons with disabilities; a full-time contract and, finally, a training contract. In other words, the working conditions of this contract, including wages, are set out in the Science Act, in particular in article 21 (d). In these terms, it specifies that the remuneration of this contract may not be less than 56 % of the salary fixed for the equivalent categories in the collective agreements within its scope for the first two years, 60 % for the third year and 75 % for the fourth year. Nor may it be lower than the minimum inter-professional wage established each year, in accordance with article 27 of the consolidated text of the Act on the Status of Workers. According to the literal nature of this law and according to the technical criteria of the officials of the Ministry of Employment and Social Security, code 401 was first established for the administrative management of these predoctoral contracts, a code which establishes a single administrative category. Year 2011. Subsequently, in 2015, the Conference of Rectors of the Spanish Universities, which is the body of representation of employers, in this case universities and research centres, where the eighty-five public and private universities in Spain are present, requested a code change to better collect their formative character. In particular, what did the CRUE, the Conference of Rectors of Spanish Universities, ask - I insist - the Government? He requested a change from code 401 to code 420, considering that it is the most similar in this mode of recruitment. The Ministry of Employment and Social Security, after studying this request, always seeking to give a better solution and after having listened to the Rectors, agreed to it and changed the code, which was essential for registration in the State Public Employment Service, and has consequently modified the model and form available on the web. But, Your Honor, this change of code is only an administrative matter, as I said before, which does not affect the legal nature of the contracts, nor has the regulation of the aforementioned predoctoral contracts been changed either. The change of code has also not diminished any of the rights of the persons hired: they are entitled to the unemployment benefit, both now and before; the unemployment contribution is the same after the change of the code, 8.30 %, and the bonuses applicable to the contracts also remain unchanged, at 30 %. In short, the code is merely an instrument for administrative management and is not a determinant of the legal nature of the contract being concluded, which has not changed. Because administrative codification, Mr Urquizu, does not impose or remove rights. The legal nature and the set of rights and obligations that the parties agree are established by law, and in this case the law, as you said in your intervention, is article 21 of the Science Act. This change, moreover, has not affected either one of the conditions to which it could affect, which are the conditions for health care abroad. It is necessary to distinguish here the condition of insured person for access to health care, which in Spain, as we know, is universal, from the conditions for the portability of this right. First, Act No. 16/2003 of 28 May 2003 on the cohesion and quality of the National Health System regulates access to health care and the status of insured persons. In this sense, workers who are self-employed under the form of predoctoral researchers, which is the case we are talking about, are in a situation of high or assimilated status and therefore have the right to health care. What, however, happens with health care abroad, that is, with the accreditation of this right of the insured person? For accreditation of the status of insured abroad on behalf of the Spanish health system can be managed in two ways or, which is the same, with two types of documents: on the one hand, with the European health card, which is granted, as you know, for two years; on the other hand, with the provisional replacement certificate, which grants equal protection, with the only difference that it is granted for ninety days and that it is extendable. The difference is that the National Social Security Institute issues temporary replacement certificates in cases such as unemployment benefit recipients, holders of a non-contributory pension and also workers with a work contract of less than two years. This is why the certificate has sometimes been issued and not the health card. But I would like to insist in this House, for the peace of the predoctoral contractors, that this certificate guarantees identical protection and the same health care abroad as the health card. Thus, no one has been deprived of the right to health care and no one is going to be deprived of the right to change the code. However, and in view of the concern expressed by some concerned, it was agreed with the EURC that it would be possible to use the health card regardless of the identification code they eventually requested to use. The only question that needed to be borne in mind at this point was that the duration of contracts was more than two years, which the EURC also reported. Finally, Your Honor, I believe that it is also the employer - in this case universities or research centres - who are obliged to communicate the contractual amendments, although, I insist, the change of code has not led to any change in the contractual conditions because they were fixed by law and have not been altered by that change. I therefore believe that it is good that there is certainty and tranquility, an interest in solving problems, and to point out that the working conditions, rights and obligations of the parties to the contracts are laid down by law. I also call for peace of mind for the actions carried out by the Government. On 1 March, the Secretary of State for Education, Employment and Social Security met with representatives of the CRUE to confirm to them that the pre-doctoral contract has at no time changed its legal nature and that, as I have told you, it maintains all its rights, regardless of the heading under which it falls. At that meeting, the conference of directors was already asked to decide, in agreement with the workers' representatives, the code which they considered most appropriate to the nature of these contracts for urgent communication to the ministry. The following day, the CRUE sent a statement to the Ministry of Employment and Social Security requesting the return to heading 401, and the ministry, as it could not otherwise be - a ministry that meets what the interested parties say - has responded to this request and has already proceeded to reallocate code 401. Furthermore, in order to eliminate any uncertainty, a message has been made retroactively to make clear: that predoctoral officials have had and will continue to have the confidence of the Government as well as all the rights guaranteed by law. I am therefore pleased to have had the opportunity to answer your question and to have been able to resolve any uncertainty that might have arisen, clarifying it from this rostrum. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u163	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Urquizu Sancho has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u164	Minister, the truth is that listening to the first question that arises from me is: If it had no consequence, why did they do it? I mean, if it really didn't have any consequences for these workers, why did they decide to change their contribution code? Can you state here that it is not possible for these workers to have some more rights, if there is any sentence that says so? Can you say here that it is possible that these workers, on the basis of that contract for work and service, could not have more rights? [[The Lord]] Therefore, is there not the possibility that you, anticipating that reality that all these people could have more rights, would decide to change their contribution code so that that eventuality would not occur? Can you say it here, are you sure? Secondly, it seems that now it is no longer your fault or the Ministry of Employment, which is the CRUE. That the CRUE requests something does not relieve you of any responsibility because it is your responsibility to make the decision. When someone asks them for something, what citizens expect from their government is to defend them. It can't be that when you ask them to back down on people's rights you comply with that request. Therefore, you are not irresponsible of what has happened, quite the contrary, you are very responsible for that error. Let us therefore say that what many of those young investigators were expecting from your Government was to defend them and not what you have done to change their status and status. Thirdly, I don't know if you understand me. This is no longer just economic issues, but it has to do with people's dignity. A researcher is more than a code; researchers are families, life projects, people who are dedicated to analyzing what world we want to live in. Therefore, try to have a broader look when making a decision. When referring to people look beyond a number, look at what's behind it. I'm sure if you do, you'll never make the mistake you've made again. If when you looked at people looking at those life projects behind you and stopped seeing numbers and codes I am sure that decisions like the one you have tried to make - thanks to the fact that this group has brought you to the House and thanks to the young researchers who have raised their voices - would not happen again. Of course, you have to understand that we don't trust you very much when it comes to rights. Of course we don't trust you! and of course it is not the first time that there is a group of young researchers who lose the right to health, it is not the first time that it happens in this country because of its decisions. Therefore, you must be aware that my group suspects you in this matter, suspects because you have already done so before. This is not the first time that you have questioned the rights of citizens and young researchers when it comes to receiving public services. And hence our concern, hence that we are on the alert and that we bring an inquiry despite its rectification. Because we don't trust you, because you don't trust rights. They are not reliable because every decision they make usually carries fewer rights, no more rights, and in this case we had that doubt. As you said at the beginning, can you say here that with code change it is possible that you will not lose rights? Really? Minister, in conclusion, we are glad that you have rectified. As I was saying, we are pleased that you have made the right decision by being forced to do so. Forced because we have come here to ask for it and forced because young researchers have been raising their voices against this unjust decision. We are glad that you have acted in this way. We ask you not to do it again, that every time you have to make a decision - as I say - look at people and not the numbers. And every time you make a decision, try to give more rights and not less rights. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u165	Thank you very much, Mr Urquizu. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u166	Mr. President. I'm sorry I blew your intervention, Mr. Urquizu... Where are you? [[Mr. Urquizu Sancho is heading for his seat]] Oh, sorry, I didn't see him. I know he's capable of doing two things at the same time, like walking and listening. I am sorry that I gave you the floor, Mr Urquizu, because you had prepared an intervention without taking into account that the Government had already taken a decision a few days ago. You have come up here, I tell you with sympathy, to say that the change that the government has made over the headings, in the end it is thanks to the Socialist Group because otherwise, we would not have done it.Man!, we must be a little more modest, Mr Urquizu, we must not put on medals that one does not have. The Government, of course, is wrong and clear that it does things wrong. We're not machines, I don't know if you're machines, you're robots and you do everything right. We didn't; we were wrong. But you know what we do? We listened. When the representatives of the universities come and tell us that the decision that was made four years ago has not yielded good practical results and explain it to us we have no inconvenience in rectifying. Do you know why we do it? Because it's the students we care about, because it's the people we care about. We don't care at all to recognize him. We care about people and if we have to find a solution and the solution is asked by the CRUE, with whom this ministry is pleased to have a great relationship, better than better. We don't care to say anything. Well, yes, why? Because governments and political parties are helping to improve people's lives and to find solutions when we have seen that those that had been given had not yielded the expected results. I would therefore like to recall what I said earlier because it is important for clarification purposes. The working conditions of pre-election contractors are determined by the provisions of the Science Act and also subsidiary to the Workers'Statute. And that's because you wanted it, which were the legislators in 2011; so, when you talk about clarification, hey!, look what you did then. If it turns out that there have been unwanted interpretations it is perhaps - I dare say modestly - because it was not clear in the legislation adopted by a government of your party. Secondly, and to be clear also to these researchers, the framing in one or another code, 401 before, 420 now, does not impose nor remove rights, is an administrative matter. And thirdly, as I said before, we have changed it because the employer has requested it, which in this case is the CRUE. And at no time, at any time, I stress this, has there been a loss of rights for the contractors and no change in their contributions or other extremes; and at no time has the right to health care abroad been lost for these people, whether with the European health card scheme or with the provisional certificate that can be extended. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is a case in which the Government has acted quickly, acted as the parties asked, and I believe that the result is satisfactory and I believe that everyone, including the caller, should welcome it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u167	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF ECONOMIC, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS ON ITS POLICIES TO ENCOURAGE Capture AND RECOVERY OF TALENT IN THE CONTEXT OF BREXIT AND THE PRESIDENCY OF DONALD TRUMP. [[File number 172/000027]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u168	We turn next to the following item on the agenda: Urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to the Minister of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness on his policies aimed at promoting the capture and recovery of talent in the context of the Brexit and the presidency of Donald Trump. For your defence, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u169	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to have you here. I am very proud to present this Citizens' initiative today to ask the Government to launch a talent attraction programme in our country as soon as possible. We are in the prehistory of active policies and positive immigration policies and in Citizens we are not willing to stay behind in the global race of talent. We need ambition, we need a government with vision, we need a government, Minister, to think a little less like a provincial parliament and a little more like a great nation, which is what we should aspire to. But for that, Minister, it is essential to take human capital seriously, to take talent seriously, because if we do not, we will not live up to the future that awaits us. I warn you, we will not allow Citizens to drag your feet with this too; we will continue to attack by land, sea and air so that the government takes once and for all entrepreneurship, progress and talent seriously. We have done so with the National Pact for Education; you and the Socialist Party have been sticking together for thirty years - it is not the way to win the future, it is not the way to face the challenges that the country with the greatest educational failure in Europe - and since Citizens are in this House we have a table to talk about education, to have a project in six months that really changes the education of this country. We are also doing so with universities, we have been warning that endogamy and the lack - now said by Mr Urquizu - of meritocracy expels talent massively in this country. We want our universities to be known for educational success, for their publications, for their impact on patents, for the impact they actually have on increasing productivity and not because their governments - some of their autonomous communities - defend directors who are scripts and who also plagiarism their creations of other creators and researchers. Today we don't have a single university among the top hundred in the world. Why, Minister? You were also in the past legislature - I know you were not Minister of Education, but you remember it very well - where a committee of experts was formed to renew the university, so that we could actually have at least one of the top hundred universities in the world, but that reform was archived in the drawer. Why did they do it, Minister? We have also worked on innovation and science. In the agreement we signed with the People's Party, it came that you were finally going to implement - I think that investment in R & D and innovation in this country has dropped by about 30% - a technology transfer network, a network to support companies, SMEs with technological problems and that with university knowledge, with the connection between university and company, they could develop infinitely more productive systems and solve many of their internal processes to improve their productivity. Do you intend to bring into the budget that we have not yet seen from Mr Montoro those commitments reflected or do you intend to continue dragging your feet also in innovation? Also in Citizens we prefer to protect, shield and help the entrepreneurs and the self-employed than the corrupt and therefore to this House we brought - it was our first law and we are very proud of that - the urgent law for the self-employed, to eliminate burdens, to facilitate the entrepreneurship, so that they can develop their activity without administrative obstacles. Will they allow the emergency law to come out of the self-employed or will they also continue to block it as they have done so far by postponing the deadline for amendments? I hope they don't drag their feet in that way too. Three million families are affected by this problem. Also in Citizens we take the startups very seriously. Yesterday in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs we presented an initiative and, by the way, I thank the Spanish Startups Association for supporting us throughout the process to improve its ecosystem - that the Government is basically something that must not even recognize that exists in Spain - that is emerging, that is flourishing in an incredible way in our country, so we need to update our regulations. Do you think your government, Mr De Guindos, is doing something for start-ups or are you still defending the establishment against the new talent? In Citizens we take talent seriously because we take progress seriously. The world is increasingly divided more clearly into a screening between those who defend open and progressive societies and those who defend closed societies, nationalism, walls and protectionism. Almost everything happens, ladies and gentlemen, on a transnational level: the environment, technologies, finance and talent. However, some are committed to returning to a neo-western world and rebuilding walls and differences. Vargas Llosa said recently that perhaps the problem is that the walls have them in their heads and that is why they are unable to understand the world in which we live. Some like Trump, like May, like Le Pen, like Orbán, and also some like our friend here from the National Front, Rufian, or like We can vote systematically in Europe to get out of it. In Citizens we think exactly the opposite. What we have to do is to build bridges and that is why I would like, Mr De Guindos - and this is the reason for this question - to have the government take the lead, take the rapport and say: Faced with these exclusionary nationalisms, in front of these people who do not value talent, I propose an active system of immigration, of attraction of talent to attract all those students, doctoral students, professionals, scientists and entrepreneurs who are becoming orphans and who are being expelled from these countries, who come to Spain, who come to contribute to creating wealth, to improve productivity, to sustain our welfare system, which is at risk, and to pay our pensions for the future. Why are we not taking initiatives to really defend and attract that talent? Only in the city of London are there tens of thousands - you know very well - of people who are with enormous uncertainty about what is going to happen in their future. They don't know if they're going to be expelled simply because their passport says they were born in another country. Why can't Spain aspire with the geographical conditions it has, with the wonderful culture it has, with the sun we have and with relatively stable institutions to be the Silicon Valley of Europe? I say this to you, Mr De Guindos, because you have not had a vision of the future, because you are stuck in an economy of the past and you do not have a model based on talent, you do not have a model that really believes in the economy of knowledge. In any case, even if it costs them, we will continue to insist. We ask you to put in place a programme of effective points, but not by copying the models of failure, but those of success, as exists in Canada since 1967, in Australia since 1979, in Singapore, in France, in Denmark and in most countries that have really valued human capital, which is why they have the productivity rates they have and the very low unemployment rates they have. Spain has to strive to grow and reduce unemployment in the face of the future and that is why I wonder if they will continue to cut the scholarships for researchers who are out - it is important to attract and recover our talent - or they plan to continue to make it more and more difficult. And for entrepreneurs does the government intend to make, for example, a special visa for startups, a plan for them to come here to sit and create wealth, or do they intend to remain stagnant in permanent immobilism? Minister, I'm done with this. I don't think there are any variables -- I don't think there is, I know there isn't -- more important to the progress of nations than talent. So far you have not given a single indication that you really care about talent and human capital. We hope that they will start taking it very seriously soon because the future of this country is at stake. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Roldán. Next, the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u171	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Roldán, the first thing I have to say is that the government's fundamental objective has been not only to promote recovery - we have been in economic growth for three years and we have recovered the level of income we had in 2007 - but also to change the productive model and that is why such important laws as the Entrepreneur Support Act and the Business Financing Promotion Act, which regulate crowdfunding - the other day a Latin American minister said they were copying the law of crowdfunding - the alternative stock market, the alternative fixed income market and access to startup financing, have been adopted. However, we have recently experienced extraordinary situations, such as that of Brexit. We hope that in the coming days the British Government will invoke Article 50 and open the negotiation process. If you do not accept the four freedoms that define the internal market, the financial passport will disappear for companies located in the United Kingdom, which will produce, as we all know, relocation. There are many financial companies in London City that are planning to relocate. I do not think that there is going to be a change in the bulk of many of these companies to another city, but rather a dispersion. There will certainly be specialization by types of financial activities, because it is not the same as a hedge fund, a private equity company or a traditional fund management company. What we also hope - it will be a reality - is that two very specific institutions, such as the AEVA and the Medicines Agency, will be relocated. In short, opportunities open up. And what can Spain do to take advantage of all this? Firstly, a stable macroeconomic environment. Your Honor, if Brexit had occurred in the years 2010, 2011, 2012 and even 2013 Spain would have no chance, because then we were on the verge of rescue and collapse. Today we are the fastest growing economy and therefore there is an open possibility that these investors, these workers, this talent will ultimately relocate to Spain. Your Honor, I am convinced that you have had the opportunity to analyse the macroeconomic picture provided by the INE in its 2016 annual accounts. Economic growth above 3 %, current account surplus of balance of payments above 2 %, export growth as the main variable pulling the Spanish economy, growth of online consumption or slightly below product growth, intense job creation and inflation in negative terms on average; yes, there has been a rebound, but a rebound that is going to be strictly temporary. Your Honor, you know about macroeconomics and you know that the Spanish economy has not presented such a macroeconomic picture for a long time, not just because of the intensity of economic growth, but because of the quality of it. Unlike four or five years ago, we have all the bases for the Spanish economy to grow for four or five years. Spain has regained its credibility and prestige in the world. This is the first condition necessary for international investors in the field of talent and all those activities of greater added value to start to consider Spain a potential point of attraction. This has happened because there has been a reduction in the public deficit and because we have known that the public debt ratio GDP for the second consecutive year is reduced; it is reduced moderately, but it is reduced and is therefore already stabilized. In addition, there is another very important issue that I hope you will be aware of, namely that Spain has political stability. [[The lady]] If we did not have political stability, do not have the slightest doubt that these possibilities and this potentially attractive framework that Spain presents to attract talent would not exist. As you know, political instability is now in other areas and in other countries and we are somehow taking advantage of that situation. But apart from this economic and political stability, the possibilities that determine the current situation and the correction of Spain's macroeconomic imbalances, there are other important factors. Firstly, Spain has one of the least restrictive regulations for foreign investment in the world and this puts us in a privileged position, both for industrial and technological sectors. In addition, Spain can be a good platform to serve Latin American markets. Your Honor, you yourself have said that our infrastructure, transport and communications system is considered one of the best in the world, according to the 2015-2016 Global Competitiveness Report prepared by The World Economic Forum. There are special highways, highways, high-speed rail network, ports and international airports. With regard to R & D+i, the tax treatment system for R & D+i companies in Spain is one of the most generous in the OECD as a whole, as the organisation itself has pointed out. In the real estate field, both from the residential and non-residential point of view - and each of us who has had to live outside Spain knows it perfectly - Spain is very attractive. Our prices are much lower and the value for money in our country is much higher. The same is true of our public services; both safety and health, education and so on, are at very high levels. If we look at labour and tax legislation, we think we can perfectly compete. The fiscal pressure in Spain is moderate and, in relation to talent, the specific regime that exists for those who are impatriate is very attractive and there are important fiscal possibilities to attract talent in research, science or high management. On the other hand, the 2016 Doing Business report itself highlights among its conclusions that one of the main advantages of our country is simplicity in tax procedures. In turn, as far as the labour regulation of senior management is concerned, he knows that our system competes perfectly with that of the countries in our environment. As regards Spanish financial rules, it must be said that it is essentially determined by Community rules. We are part of the banking union and the monetary union and, therefore, in Spain there is no more over-regulation than in other countries in our environment. Your Honor, we have a problem that I will mention, which is Spain's rating compared to that of other countries such as Germany. Rating is going to be a factor considered by some companies that are thinking about their relocation out of the city of London, because they have customers and that is a fundamental issue. However, I hope that the rating agencies will reflect the reality of market perception in relation to our country's financial solvency. There is also another fundamental aspect that you know perfectly well, which is regulators and supervisors. In this regard, I can tell you that the Spanish Treasury, the National Securities Market Commission and the Banco de España have set up a specific working group to analyse the possibilities that are opened up as a result of the Brexit. The National Securities Market Commission has announced the launch of a programme to make Spain the most attractive option; to speed up all procedures; the acceptance of documentation submitted to other authorities without requiring translation; the implementation of a pre-authorisation system; the validation of internal risk models, a key issue affecting many entities and to do so in a manner that is perfectly comparable to what is happening in the United Kingdom; the use of standardized forms in English; and the opening of a single window. In order to take on all these fronts we need to strengthen the means in the National Securities Market Commission, and the Government is committed. Brexit is an opportunity for further steps in the whole of the financial union, it is not only the single supervisory mechanism, it is also in the area of securities markets. We believe that ESMA should adopt new powers, such as the relationship with financial services companies, asset managers or clearing and settlement chambers over which the European Central Bank has no jurisdiction. In turn, progress could be made towards the definition of new powers, such as empowering ESMA to authorize intermediaries in investment services companies that remain under the Mifid; recording, monitoring and resolving clearing houses, monitoring audit firms, etc. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the policies of the new American administration, let us see what these policies are. I completely agree with you on one issue; undoubtedly talent is the most important factor of production that exists in any economy. If a country as important as the United States limits the entrance of talent, do not have the slightest doubt, Your Honor, that it is not only limiting its potential growth, but is favoring those who somehow apply a much more open policy for the entrance of that talent. That is what Europe is going to do and what Spain is going to do. Talent is our weakest good and it is the best we have to deal with. That is why - I agree with you - education and training is the fundamental issue. Talent affects what economists call total factor productivity, and total factor productivity ultimately determines the potential growth of an economy. But, Your Honor, if there has been a government that has fought over what is the open economy, it has been this, either in Brussels, in the G-20 or in the OECD. We believe that what benefits society is openness - internal and external -, the elimination of internal barriers, the qualification of staff, skills; ultimately, Your Honor, human capital. That is also behind Spain being a competitive economy at the moment. Don't have the most spoiled one. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u172	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u173	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. You started your speech by saying that when you came to the government you found yourself in a disastrous economy, and I think you did one thing right - let me admit it from here - which is to achieve the first goal that Spain needed to achieve: economic stability. They stabilized the economy. We had their financial system broken, a broken labour market, a situation that was really on the edge, among other things as a result of the disasters that you yourselves did before, but well, that was the first goal and they achieved it; they managed to stabilize the economy. Now, after falling a lot, we're growing a lot. But there is a second part of the argument, which is where I think it fails - not only do I think so, but that the international institutions repeat it repeatedly - which is the change in the bottom-up productive model. You have had no ambition and had an extraordinary historic opportunity, with an absolute majority and also in a period of crisis, a time when, as the evidence itself says and all studies say, the limitations of political economy can really be broken to make the necessary reforms. You guys totally missed it. You have stabilized the economy - okay - but you have done nothing to change the productive model, so you have massively cut active and training policies for employment; that is why you have massively cut investment in education; that is why we have the highest school drop-out in Europe; that is why you have done absolutely nothing to reform a university that is at the tail of European countries and that is deeply endogenous; that is why you have done absolutely nothing to support the self-employed; that is why you have done nothing to make life easier for startups. In short, you have done nothing for talent, you have not worried about human capital, and that is the great challenge that this country has, because in the career that we are going to live in the future, the sustainability of our economy, the success of the Spanish nation in the future, will be the success of its talent. I understand that I had thought that my question would be addressed to the issue of Brexit and to the impact on how to attract the financial system, which is likely to be dislocated if it stays outside the European regulatory system. That is a significant part - we made some proposals and I am glad that the Government is partly collecting them - but I was asking you about a general immigration talent attraction program. That is, to make active policies, positive policies to attract the best talent and you have not proposed a single measure in that regard, with which I understand that the Government does not intend to change anything. Compared to other European countries, we are on the line in this area. I insist, we copy not what is wrong with France or Italy; we copy Canada, we copy the United Kingdom to be at the forefront of immigration policies and to be able to attract that talent. Nor have you explained to us, Mr Guindos - now you will have the opportunity to do so - how you intend to recover the Spanish talent that has gone away and that you are eager to return, but, as this Government does not value it, you have no way of doing so. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u174	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u175	Thank you very much, President. Mr Roldán, you are a good economist and you know perfectly well what was the model of economic growth, the model of performance that Spain had ten years ago and the model of behavior that we currently have. I'm going to give you a series of data that I think are fundamental. In 2006 and 2007, construction reached a peak of around 20% of Spain's gross domestic product. It's about 10% right now. Do you know who filled it out? Exports of goods and services. Balance of payments data show that Spain's exports of goods and services, leaving aside tourism, because we have the cliché that Spain is only a tourist country, are on a monthly average of around 25 billion euros. Tourism averages just under 5,000. We do the average to avoid the tourist tips we have in summer and the descents adjusted to the usual seasonality. In other words, Spain is a country in which exports of goods and services already account for about 35% of gross domestic product; it is an economy open to the world, a competitive economy, an economy that generates balance of payments current account surpluses above 2% in 2016. In addition, the data we are going to see from the International Monetary Fund, OECD and the European Commission indicate that this surplus will be maintained. Spain never, except for recessions and brutal adjustments, achieved, as you know, a surplus in the current balance of payments account, and in 2016 the fourth consecutive was achieved, with a surplus above 2 % of the gross domestic product. You can tell me that this has essentially to do with the price of oil, and even more than with the price of oil, with the payment of interest that we do on the basis of our international indebtedness, it is true, but even if we removed those two items and with a recovery of domestic demand, Spain would have surplus in the current account of the balance of payments. The saving of the price of oil has been about 5 billion euros and that of interest, which is much more important than that of oil - sometimes we forget it because it is more difficult to identify and it is more hidden, but there is nothing in the economy like knowing what is important and what is less important - it totals about 15 billion euros, i.e. 1.5 points. Even if we eliminated all that, we would still have a current account surplus around half a point of gross domestic product. In other words, there has been a very important, very profound change in the way the Spanish economy behaves, and that has to do with a number of factors. That's competitiveness. Competitiveness is a polyhedral concept, it has to do with many aspects: it has to do logically with productivity, with talent, with the ability to innovate. I agree with you that education is better, of course it is. Do we have problems in universities? Of course I do. Are there issues of self-government that are also particularly relevant? Of course it is, but the main problem that Spain has at the moment, from the structural point of view, is the scale of SME samples. The scale of our SMEs is much lower than the average of other countries and this necessarily implies a number of obstacles from the point of view of corporate governance, of financing, also of export - that is, of internationalization - and, as I said before, of the incorporation of talent. That's where we have to make the effort. I always wonder why Spain, in any of the business schools, has three of the top ten; however, we are behind in the university and in other areas, as you know perfectly well, such as vocational training. It is a question that I sometimes wonder and we should consider what has been done well in some cases and what has not been done well in others. The talent, which I repeat is a fundamental factor, is behind the success achieved by the Spanish economy in getting out of the recession three years ago, and I think it will continue to play a fundamental role. I am absolutely convinced that if aspects of education, university and even research are being corrected, the contribution will be increasing and Spain will not only have 35% of its GDP open to the outside world via exports, but I am convinced that we will reach much higher levels. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u176	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations may, in common, in the case of the Minister of Health, the Minister for Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities on the situation of discrimination against LGBTI persons, especially women. [[File number 172/000028]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u177	We then turn to the urgent inquiry of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, to the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality on the situation of discrimination against LGBTBI people, especially women. Mrs García Puig has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u178	Good morning, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, today, March 8, Women's Day, an unemployment of women has been called in 35 countries around the world. In our country this unemployment will take place from twelve to twelve and a half. In the Confederal Group we have decided to support this unemployment and we will stop our activity at 12 o'clock. I would like to say to the honourable Members and to the Minister that our group has requested that the order of the calls be changed so that it does not interfere with the will to carry out this unemployment, but unfortunately this proposal has not received the support of all groups. Because we want to highlight the importance of women in a world that would not work without us, because we are sick of invisibility and discrimination, precariousness and violence against women, today we are unemployment, care and consumption. In my question, I will tell you about the rights of lesbian, bisexual and transgender women, victims of sexism but also of the lesbian, biphobia and transphobia that prevail in our society. For them, for us, because we want free, diverse and alive, at twelve o'clock, I find myself at the point where I find myself from my intervention, I and the brave women of the LGTBI collectives who accompany us today in the rostrum join the workers of Congress on the street and we will carry out the unemployment. Today, as it could not be any other way, I want to talk to you about women, I want to talk to you about Carla Díaz, an Asturian girl of fourteen years old who, after having been harassed for months by the screams of bulls, committed suicide; or about Brenda and Maria, two mothers who went to the Civil Registry of Denia to register their son Lennon and met with the refusal of the officials; or about a transgender woman of twenty-six years old, whose name we do not know, who was savagely attacked in the Madrid neighborhood of Tetuán at the cry of faggot, travel, whore and transvestite. Or let me read you the statements of a Catalan lesbian woman after public health refused to perform a reproduction treatment assisted by her sexual orientation - I quote -: You feel like a shit, excluded, you are neither person, you are part of a group, of a minority. I don't know if you know the case of these women, Minister, but they are just examples of what we LGBTI women suffer every day. We're in a state of alarm, Mrs. Montserrat, we're being assaulted, insulted and discriminated against. LGTBIphobia repeats itself, increases, encamps at large without a real political and strategic will on the part of his Government to put an end to it. The data indicate that LGBTIphobia is present in our society and we could even say that it is on the rise. In addition, lesbian, bisexual and transgender women have to face double discrimination. To the greater social and economic precariousness of women in which his Government has left us and to the macho violence that we face every day is added our LGBTI condition. Not only does the Government not lay the foundations and instruments for combating such forms of discrimination, but discrimination often emanates from the Government itself, from State structures. As I am going to tell you, LGBTIphobia manifests itself very visibly in hate crimes, but it is also present in our education and health system, for which your Government, Minister, is responsible. Hate crimes, as I said, are the most visible form of this violence. We know from the Ministry of the Interior that in 2015 the total number of hate crimes for homophobia, transphobia or biphobia was one hundred and sixty-nine. We look forward to the 2016 report shortly. In any case, if anything is clear, we are not facing the path of the decline of LGTBIphobia. Data from the groups that fight homophobia, transphobia and biphobia suggest that there is a significant increase. Unfortunately, we only have data from some territories thanks to the observatories that emerged from organized citizenship, such as the Bservatory against Catalan homophobia or the Madrid Observatory, which carry out a commendable task. One of the most worrying cases is that of the Community of Madrid. According to the observatory, there were two hundred and forty LGBTIphobic hate crimes in 2016. Currently, in the Community of Madrid there is an aggression by LGBTIphobia every day and a half. But the real drama lies precisely in the figures that are not there. All LGTBI entities and official entities acknowledge that these harmful data are only the tip of the iceberg. According to the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, only 10% of hate crimes are known and reported, making official statistics seriously underestimate the problem. But let's go to the women. One fact in itself is the lack of data. We lack specific studies on LGTBI women. Neither his Government nor his party's previous governments have conducted a single study on this issue. As usual, women are invisible. It is often up to us ourselves to become invisible so as not to be subjected to structural discrimination. Secondary victimization is undoubtedly much more serious in the case of women, even when we talk about women with limited resources, and his Government does not take any steps to make visible a reality that the collectives define as alarming. Where are these studies, Minister? How can we aspire to protect women, to design effective strategies, if we do not even know the gravity of the problem? Where are his ministry's actions against the true drama of trans women, subjected to high levels of discrimination and macho violence in what is already known as transmissionogyny? What about rural women, always forgotten and always invisible? LGTBI entities believe that there are high levels of underreporting in the case of rural women, who are afraid to report because of the socio-cultural context of their communities. Will your Government consider these realities? Will it finally end the historical injustices that trans women accumulate? Will your Government realize that rural women also have rights? Let us do a very simple exercise that I hope your Government has done. Let us look at the profile of the aggressors; most of them are men under thirty years of Spanish age, and also do not belong to organized groups. Machism and LGBTIphobia share the same origin: the sexist and heteronormative system in which we live. As a 14-year-old student said in a study on LGBTIphobic school harassment conducted by the Cogam and FELGTB entities - I quote -: scorning faggots makes you more male. Is your Government aware of the importance of this link between machismo and LGBTIphobia? What are the strategies for jointly combating these two phenomena? Will your government finally listen to the feminist and LGBTI movements in our country? They are pioneering movements and to them we owe all the progress made in this field; however, their demands are constantly ignored by the governments. We are not faced with the actions of a few upset. LGTBIphobia is not just the isolated attacks of violent people. Nor is it the hate speech of a few, like the one we have seen these days with the Transphobic Bus of Make You Hear. We are facing a structural problem, Madam Minister, and it does not seem at all that we are being able to prevent it from spreading among the new generations. Pass through our schools and you will discover that the machista and LGBTIphobic behaviors are very common among our young people and have a lot of impact in the classrooms; the consequences of all this are harmful. It is clear that structural measures are needed that attack the very basis of the gender-building system, that understand that machismo and LGBTIphobia are not only the problem of a minority or half of society but of all and all, and that education based on sexual and gender diversity makes us a richer, more dignified and fairer society. Let us now talk about our public health system, which you are minister of. Our public health continues to deny sexual and reproductive rights to lesbian and bisexual women and treats trans women as if they were ill without decision on their own bodies. Let me quote, Minister, from the recommendation of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe to the Member States on measures to combat discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity: Member States should take into account the specific needs of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people in the development of national health plans. I refuse to believe that our Government has rejected such a request, so I ask you: does your ministry take into account the specific needs of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people in the development of national health plans? How? What are the results? The truth is that our health system continues without incorporating a gender perspective and without taking into account the specific needs of LGBTI people. Existing medical protocols have been conceived since the exclusion of various sexual, affective and family realities. A paradigmatic case that is causing the suffering of many women is the denial of access to assisted reproduction to lesbian and bisexual women who engage in solitary motherhood or trans people. Act No. 14/2006 establishes the right to assisted reproductive treatment for all women regardless of their marital status and sexual orientation. However, according to a ministerial order of 2014 only women with a documented reproductive capacity disorder will have access to assisted reproductive treatments. The restrictions on access to assisted reproduction techniques are due to ideological reasons. As always, your government and your party want to control our bodies. Minister, our bodies are ours and we have the right to decide freely about our motherhood. [[Applauds]] We also have the right to create the type of family we want, even if it does not conform to the ideological and religious assumptions of his Government. Are you going to repeal the ministerial order, Minister? Will you put an end to this serious discrimination by sexual orientation and gender identity in our public health? Today, no doubt, would be a great day to do so. Minister, how many more times will we have to scream that our bodies are ours and that we do not accept any more interference? When will they understand that there are children with vulva, girls with penis, boys who disguise themselves as princesses and girls of superheroes; that Mary likes John, but that perhaps also, why not, she likes Lucia; that we want free, diverse and alive? [[Applauds]] Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u179	Thank you very much. I now call on the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality, on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u180	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have experienced a major social and legal transformation in relation to LGBTI people. This Government is firmly committed to respect for the principle of equality regulated by article 14 of the Constitution. We are also committed to the prohibition of all forms of discrimination contained in article 2 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations, which states that everyone has all the rights and freedoms proclaimed in this declaration without distinction of any kind as to race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. We are all the same, without discrimination. Therefore, the rights of LGBTI people are fully protected and at the highest level by our Constitution, and the obligation of this Government is to respect and enforce the Magna Charter. Respect for the person, his or her dignity, recognition of his or her talent and capacity is the fundamental rule that inspires the Government. Respect for the other must be the sign that identifies the Spaniards. Intolerance, the rejection to which, for whatever reason, it seems to us different, must be banished forever from our conduct. It is an anachronism that in a modern and democratic society no longer has room. The principles that inspire our democratic society are totally contrary to any discriminatory attitude towards anyone. We are all people, we are all the same, and we are going to work, as we have done so far, so that no one feels discriminated against. We are aware that there is still a way to go. There are many obstacles that still need to be removed in order to achieve an integrated and egalitarian society that is inspired by the really important values and that will forever release the heavy burden of prejudice. Prejudice is the great enemy of equality. There are still prejudices and we have to fight them through education. Values education is fundamental to ending those stigmatizing and discriminating prejudices. To accomplish this work, society must be firmly united. The struggle for equality and respect does not recognize or admit colours or political or ideological preferences, whatever they may be. The fight against discrimination is the responsibility of all of us, of society as a whole. As I pointed out in my appearance before the Equality Commission of this House, there has been a change of mindset in Spain and we have made much progress in preventing discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. Unfortunately, there are still hotbeds of resistance and cases of discrimination in very specific sectors, such as work. Cases of discrimination continue to exist in the workplace and, in particular, there is a group of people who suffer severely from it, the transgender people. [[Some Members of the House and some Members of the House are leaving the Chamber.]] They have a thousand barriers to accessing the world of work and, therefore, it is inescapable to work with transgender people to seek formulas together and improve their integration into the world of work. The Government's objective is zero tolerance for discrimination of any kind. We firmly believe that the development of a policy of inclusion and integration is the basis of a democratic society. There are other social sectors in which there is still a taboo talking about LGBTI people, sectors such as sport, for example. We have to work so that everyone can live their lives the way everyone chooses, without being pressured by anything or anyone to hide their private lives. We must work so that everyone can have a dignified life, without fear and without pressure. Your Honor, I don't like to talk about minorities or collectives, I think it's a stigmatization that hurts; I like to talk about people. We are all the same within our diversity. And for people and people a lot has been done in the past legislature, but we have to keep working on this line. A specific line has been introduced for the first time in the IRPF grants for the care of victims of discrimination, hatred and intolerance, under which 14 projects totalling EUR 226,000 have been subsidized. The map of discrimination has been drawn up, which has facilitated the collection of empirical data on the perception of discrimination in Spain: extent, main reasons, main areas in which it occurs, knowledge of existing resources. Within the framework of this project, a diagnostic study on discrimination in Spain has been prepared and, in collaboration with the CIS, a study of profiles of discrimination also in Spain. Since 2013, the Ministry of the Interior has been developing a statistical register on hate crimes. The registration of these incidents by the security forces and bodies has indeed been a very significant step forward, as recognized by international organizations specialized in this field. Fifty specialized prosecution offices have been set up to deal with hate crimes and discrimination throughout the country, as well as a police protocol to eradicate discrimination and violence against hate crimes. We have also published the practical guide 'How to deal with cases of discrimination and hate and intolerance crimes', where resources are identified and practical information is provided to improve assistance to victims of discrimination and hate crimes. We have developed awareness-raising activities such as the institutional campaign 'I am you', aimed at young people aged 13 to 20, with the aim of promoting positive messages about the diversity between this segment of the population essential to prevent the reproduction of stereotypes that generate discriminatory behaviors. In addition, awareness-raising activities have been developed among Spanish companies in collaboration with the Foundation for Diversity, with the aim of disseminating and promoting the implementation of the Charter of Diversity, an initiative promoted by the European Commission. The charter is a code that companies sign on a voluntary basis to commit to the management of diversity within them. In this same line of action, a study has been carried out on the management of diversity in Spanish companies, which collects success stories, both from large and small and medium-sized companies. In collaboration with the Diversity Foundation, recognitions for the management of diversity in the company have also been organized for the first time in Spain. We have developed, in collaboration with the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport, the guide 'Abrazing diversity: proposals for education free of homophobia and transphobia', which identifies good practices and offers members of the educational community - students, parents, teachers and educational authorities - practical recommendations and a proposal for a protocol to detect and address situations of homophobic or transphobic school harassment. It has also been the first time that a Government has created a national strategy for women in rural areas to help them empower and visualize and visualize them. And in this legislature we have committed ourselves to the Rural Women's Challenge Plan. We have done a lot, but nothing will be enough as long as there are still cases of discrimination. Therefore, Your Honor, you have no doubt that we will continue to work on the measures we have implemented so far to prevent any discrimination. We reject, abhor and condemn any discrimination on the grounds of birth, race, sex, religion, opinion or any other personal or social condition or circumstance. We believe that defending an ideology can never justify aggression against others, and less so when we talk about childhood, which is our most precious asset to protect. Therefore, Your Honor, you have no doubt that this Government will continue to work together with all the public authorities, all the administrations, the autonomous communities and the Federation of Municipalities in a coordinated manner in the fight against any discrimination in our country. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u181	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs García Puig. [[Pause]] As I am not in the Chamber, I ask the Minister whether she wants to conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u182	President, thank you very much. I mean that from the ministry we are working with seriousness and rigour and we want to listen to everyone. The Secretary of State for Social Services met with the State Federation of Lesbians, Gays, Transexuals and Bisexuals, it was a very productive meeting at which they moved their point of view on the work that we can do from the ministry to combat discrimination against LGBTBI people. We were concerned about the high number of cases of aggression against LGBTI people in the past year and we were called upon to work from the root of the problem, to actively combat prejudice. In line with what we have been doing so far, we will continue to work through education and awareness-raising in order to combat prejudice. A society with prejudices is not a healthy society. As I have already said, we are not going to improvise and last March 2 - since the Member asked me for reports - the State Secretariat for Social Services and Equality has presented the report entitled 'LGTBI people in the field of employment in Spain: Towards inclusive work spaces with sexual orientation and gender identity and expression'. This study is the first carried out by a Spanish administration on the subject and offers a real diagnosis of the discrimination in the working environments of LGBTI people, paying special attention to the problem of transgender women. The findings of the study show us that in LGBTI people there is no free and natural expression of sexual orientation or identity in their field of work. Non-expression, concealment and a certain fear persists that the exposure may pose some risk, dismissal, harassment, comments, change of attitude towards them or them. This problem, which has led to transsexuality, has more serious nuances, especially in the case of transgender women. On this basis, the Government is going to promote the necessary measures that help to definitively refer this situation and one of the measures that we are going to implement is the anonymous curriculum, the blind curriculum. It is a format that we are not going to impose, but we are going to promote companies to adhere to it. As you know, the blind resume is a resume where potential candidates for a job offer do not put their photo, their name, their surnames, their sexual orientation, their gender, or their date of birth. What allows us for the blind curriculum is that people's talent, ability and merit are really valued. What avoids the blind curriculum is any discrimination. Many times we find that in the private enterprise a person who is sixty years of age may not be able to access the job because they are discriminated against in advance because of their age, even if they have an exceptional curriculum. Or that women who are of childbearing age, because they are in that age group, no longer have access to the labour market. We also saw last week in the media how a woman for having a few pounds more was not hired in a company. In the public administration this does not happen because to gain access to a position of official what is valued in the opposition is precisely the capacity and merit of a person. However, we must continue to work in the private sector and we will therefore implement this measure together with the companies. In the ministry we have held a meeting with all the companies that have the badge of equality and all of them have welcomed it very well. I also want to say that there is a particular company in Spain that is carrying out it and that the recruitment of women has increased from 12 % to 36% through the blind curriculum. We therefore believe that it is a good instrument to avoid any kind of discrimination, and therefore also of LGBTI people and above all of transgender women. We will continue to work, as I said before, with preventive measures, awareness-raising, trying to remove barriers, stereotypes, prejudices in our society and we want to do this jointly with all parliamentary groups, with society and with LGBTI people, as we have already been doing in this legislature. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-08-CD170308.u183	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until tomorrow at 9 a.m. on Thursday. It was 12:15 at noon.
