ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the agenda referred by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mrs Margarita Robles Hernández, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u2	Thank you, President. Mr Rajoy, my group is perfectly aware of the situation that this country is experiencing with the independence challenge in Catalonia, with the terrorist threat and you know better than anyone how we are supporting legality, the defence of the Constitution and a clear sense of state. But that sense of state that we have cannot make us dispense with the reality in which many citizens live in this country because, unfortunately, inequality and impoverishment exist in Spain. Such support for the fight against terrorism and the defence of legality cannot be an excuse not to address the problems that matter to citizens. After ten years of economic crisis, and when the country is now growing to 3%, it turns out - says Caritas Diocesan, not my group - that 70% of the families in this country do not notice that we have emerged from the crisis; a million and a half people do not receive any income; six million are on the verge of reaching poverty; wages have lost their purchasing power. Today a national circulation journal - even ABC - recognizes it and in the meantime, what are you doing? What they're doing is giving a tax amnesty so that they don't get income into the public purses; 42 billion are going to be lost in the bank bailout. What they are doing is cutting the benefits to which many workers are entitled. You have a minister who says we live in the spring of employment; the spring of employment, what is it, Mr Rajoy? That one in four contracts they signed in July lasts less than a week? Twenty-one per cent of workers under the age of fifty-five are registered at employment offices, 300 000 are not receiving any income or can contribute to social security and 370,000 have been unemployed for more than two years. What are you going to do in that situation? Please do not listen to the issue of Catalonia to continue with its policies of social inequality. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u3	Thank you very much. Mr President of the Government, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Robles. I'm not shielding myself from anything. I believe that one thing is the issue of Catalonia and another is the economic policy of the Government and what you can think about it. I am grateful for your position on the two matters to which you referred at the beginning of your intervention - in the case of terrorism and in Catalonia - I believe that it is a sensible and reasonable opposition, which is the responsibility of the Socialist Party. It is very commendable, but I do not share your opinion on the economic situation in Spain. Spain is a country that has experienced the greatest economic crisis in decades - five years followed by negative economic growth -. More than three million jobs have been lost. The situation was very complex. A ransom had to be overcome. Many institutions could not be financed because markets did not trust it. Many decisions have been made in recent years and today we can say that things are better. Undoubtedly, we still have to work hard for economic recovery to be consolidated. And what needs to be done, in my opinion, to make the long-term unemployed of more than fifty-five years less and less is, first and foremost, to maintain the economic policy of the Government - the one we have carried out in these years has worked, because it has made it possible to recover more than two million jobs - and to do so in all the autonomous communities, in all sectors, in all the collectives and in all the age groups. Secondly, what we need to do is to improve active employment policies in order to promote the employment of those long-term unemployed, and of those over fifty-five years of age in a specific way. That is what we intend to continue to do in the future, the same economic policy, because it has worked, and, at the same time, with the agreement of the Autonomous Communities, that it is necessary to improve active employment policies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs. Robles.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u6	As always, Mr. Rajoy, you haven't answered me. Stop theoretical discourses and give practical solutions to the citizens of this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u7	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u8	In fact, you did not say anything in this second speech. He simply said: Give practical solutions. Some of us have given, because it is not bad that more than 600,000 jobs are being created a year; I think it is also quite practical, because today in Spain the people over fifty-five years of age who are working are more than ever, namely 3,107,700 people, is a positive fact; since we arrived at the Government, today there are 669,000 people over fifty-five years of age. Therefore, decisions have been made, important goals have been achieved and we will persevere in that policy because we believe it works and is useful to people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GOVERNMENT OF Iglesias TURRIÓN, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNITY CAN IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT WILL YOUR GOVERNMENT DO TO RECOVER THE MONEY OF THE CITIZENS YOU USED TO RECOVER THE BANK? [[File number 180/00308]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u9	He asked the president of the government of the deputy Don Pablo Iglesias Turrión.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Mariano Rajoy, what is your government going to do to recover the money from the citizens you used to rescue the bank? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. Iglesias, when we arrived at the government, at the end of 2011 and in 2012, Spain lived, as I recalled now, the biggest economic crisis in decades. Difficult decisions had to be made, reforms had to be made, expenditure had to be controlled, and one of the most important reforms was financial reform. As you know, the existence of a sound financial system is essential for the economy to function, for investment and employment to be generated. We had to restructure some financial institutions and recapitalise others, and we did the same thing that Germany, France, the United Kingdom and Italy did, with aid similar to ours, and there were other countries, such as Greece, Ireland and Portugal, which even had to devote 25% of their GDP. We did so with transparency, with the support of European partners and international bodies. The alternative to that would have been bankruptcy, it would have been that the depositors had lost all their savings and it would have been the lack of credit, which would have made economic recovery and investment impossible. Fortunately, and thanks to those decisions made by many other countries, Spain did not break, we do not need the rescue, the depositors kept their money, the credit began to flow, investment began, consumption began, we have created many jobs and we have already had four years of economic growth. It was therefore a very positive decision. We are now awaiting, when the privatization of what is still nationalized banking and the sales of the Sareb, to recover some of the resources to heal the Spanish financial system. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u13	Mr. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u14	Today you have answered the question, but I am surprised by the answer. According to you, it is very good to give 40 billion euros from taxpayers to banks: three out of four euros that have been used for such aid have been given to banks. Do you know what this means for many Spanish families, to whom the banks do not forgive their debts, to whom the banks have even dispossessed from their homes? Let me - because you talked about 2012 - remember some of the things you said. You stated here, in parliamentary office, on 13 June 2012 - I quote literally -: This is a credit that will return the bank. Mr. De Guindos, who today does not please us with his presence, said... are we pleased with his presence? [[Rumors]] I haven't seen you, Mr. De Guindos. [[Laughter]] Mr De Guindos, that same June 13 you said: It will not cost the citizens. And the Vice-President said at a press conference in August - I quote literally again -: The basic and fundamental objective of restructuring the financial system is that it does not cost taxpayers a euro. Two conclusions are drawn from this. The first, which you lied, but this is not a novelty because you lie from getting up until you lie down. [[Rumors]] But there is another more terrible conclusion: you failed to fulfil your obligation. The obligation of a government when it lends money is to recover it because it is not your money, Mr Rajoy, it is not your money, it is the money of all Spanish citizens and with that 40 billion euros you can do many things. I'll give you some examples. With 40 billion we could multiply the pension hedge by four, with less than one fifth of what you have forgiven the banks you could have avoided cuts in health and with half of the money you have given the banks you could have kept the investment in science between 2009 and 2016. Mr. Mariano Rajoy, you have not only lied, you have shown yourself to be incompetent. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u15	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u16	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I reminded you before that all of Europe had to do such operations. By the time we got to the government, the previous government had already given aid worth EUR 15 617 million. The only person in Europe, and probably in the world, who understands that this was not necessary was you. What happens is that with their thesis they would have broken the Spanish financial system, the depositors would have lost EUR 490 billion, all those working in financial institutions would stop working and there would be no credit, there would be no economic recovery, no investment or employment. It is appropriate to study the issues well because governing is very difficult and also to do less demagogy than you do. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF ALBERT RIVERA DÍAZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT A SEREN AND Strict DEBATE IS NEEDED TO UPDATE AND STRENGTHENING THE CONSTITUTION? [[File number 180/00317]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u17	He also asked the President of the Government of Mr Albert Rivera Díaz of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u18	Thank you, President. Mr President of the Government, in the investiture agreement and also in the agreement we reached with the PSOE in its day, it is reflected that there are many reforms in this country that we have committed ourselves to: educational reform, reform of the labour framework, reform of the public administration. But there is one of them that, not because it is not urgent, does not cease to be important, which is the reform, updating and strengthening of our Constitution. Our Constitution is today, as we are seeing, the guarantor of our rights and freedoms. We have one of the best constitutions in the world but, like everything else in life, we need to improve it and we need to update it. I propose to you, Mr President - in accordance with point 122 of the agreement by which you and I commit ourselves to updating and improving our Constitution without occurrences, without nonsense, with jurists, with people of prestige - not today, surely, nor at this time, when we must stop the blow to democracy, but in the future, let us get to work. I propose to you, Mr President, that the main parties in this House appoint lawyers, experts, people who can do a great deal of work to bring us to this House a proposal to update our constitutional framework. I would like to propose this to you, Mr President, because today is not a day of occurrence or immobilism; today it is a day of looking to the future and as this party is a firm supporter of the Spanish Government and is a constitutional party, I believe it is legitimate for us to ask you whether the Government is prepared to push point 122 of the agreement. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u19	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Rivera, I believe that in your speech you have given the key to what is urgent at the present time. I think that today the priority is not so much the reform of the Constitution - which is a matter on which I am prepared to speak, of course, and also on which we have spoken in the run-up to the investiture debate - I believe that today the priority is to defend the Constitution, as we, the Socialist Group and you are doing, and to defend it against those who want to liquidate it. Think that at this time in Spain there are those who are trying to end national sovereignty, the principle of legality and the rule of law, which are the basic pillars of our constitutional text. They even want to invent a parallel legality that already exists by jumping all the formalities proper to the regulations of parliamentary democracies, as happened on the 6th and 7th of this September in the Parliament of Catalonia. I therefore believe that defending the Constitution at this time and avoiding the nonsense in which some have been installed is the priority. From there I have no problem talking about what things can be done for the future and of course - as you have said - with rigor, seriousness and without any sort of occurrences of which we are unfortunately left in Spain in recent times. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u21	Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u22	Thank you, President. Well, totally agree, Mr Rajoy, but those who want this Constitution and this democracy are the first to improve it. Immobilism is neither the solution nor the occurrence. The problem of Spain is not that in this case Madrid is a nation - as the Socialist Party proposes - or Formentera a State or be a nation of nations, the problem in Spain is to defend the freedoms and equality of our citizens and our nation. That is why we do not want to happen or join a sort of commission show but to give the best jurists in this country a commission. Tell them: Bring us a document to discuss how we improve our Constitution. Look, Yugoslavia made a nation of nations in 1974 and we already know how Yugoslavia ended, but Germany has reformed the Constitution 60 times. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u23	Silence, silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u24	Yeah, yeah, you guys read history. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u25	Silence, ladies and gentlemen! I beg your silence. [[Rumors.-Mrs. Bescansa Hernández utters words that are not perceived]] Mrs. Bescansa.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u26	Don't be shocked. The right to decide of the peoples of Yugoslavia was recognized in 1974 and that was a legal and political fact. Instead, Germany and the United States have amended it. I think, Mr. Rajoy, that's much better... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u27	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you all to remain silent. Question time is a very limited time - as you know - and I beg you for that, please, silence everyone. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u28	Thank you very much. I believe that my position has already been set out in the previous reply; however, I would like to point out that this is very relative of immobilism. Sometimes there are people who move in the opposite direction of reason and in that case it is best to stay where it is. Especially when you don't know where to go and you don't have it clear, because you better stay where you are that you end up having no problem. [[Laughter]] I would like to say that the Constitution is obviously not an immutable text, but all constitutions are born with the vocation of permanence. Look, the French is 1958, the German is 1949, the Italian one of 1947, the one of the United States of 1787 and there have been minimal changes in all; included in ours there have been few changes, only two and when necessary. We do not have to build anything new, I think the basic pillars of the Spanish Constitution are there, we agree with them - not all - and they are national sovereignty, the rule of law, the guarantee of individual rights and political pluralism. In any case, as I have said before, I am willing to talk to you but first it would be convenient for this battle that we are giving and that will obviously win democracy, the law, the rule of law, reason and common sense... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u29	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE DON FRANCESC XAVIER DOMENECH SAMPER, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE COMMUNITY MAY IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: IN THE CHRISIS OF RELATIONS WITH CATALUNIA MOST IMPORTANT OF 1978 CONSIDERING THE GOVERNMENT THAT SOLUTION IS THE JUDGES? [[File number 180/00307]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u30	Questions now to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations. Question by Mr Don Francesc Xavier Domènech Sampere. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u31	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, in the current crisis of relations with Catalonia, the most important since 1978, does the Government consider that the solution is the judges and that we are seeing more and more policemen?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u32	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. No, Mr Domènech, but you will agree with me that any solution is, as a matter of principle, for all of us to respect democratic procedures and comply with the law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Domènech.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u35	I will be as brief as the nothing of your proposal before the judges. Madam Vice-President, in having acted as a State Government, there are already thirty-four laws passed by the Parliament of Catalonia and suspended by the Constitutional Court; complaints against the Bureau of Parliament for allowing debates, only for allowing debates, which are also being done in Madrid, currently avoiding demonstrations only for freedom of expression; disqualifications from public office; complaints against hundreds of municipalities; thousands of letters to public workers; intervention in printing and weekly; police deployments in different cities of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] What's left? What else do they have right now? It appears that the application of the National Security Act or the application of article 155 to suspend the self-government of Catalonia. With your lack of proposal and your purely judicial and police action, you are destroying those pacts that you claim to defend from the 1978 Transition. You pose yourself only one possible scenario in the face of a majority demand from the people of Catalonia, the stage of victory, but there are victories that are absolutely pirtic and that end up being absolute defeats. Because if in May 77% of Spaniards and 44% of their voters felt that they were mismanaging the crisis with Catalonia, I don't even want to know what the citizens of the whole state are thinking right now. You intend to disable half of the Catalan political system and by doing so you are absolutely disenfranchising yourselves as a state government force. They're going to pass into history like a lot of things. One, like the government that had more cases of corruption in Europe and did not end them. Now they are going to pass into history as the government that in the face of the worst crisis with Catalonia dedicated itself to pouring gasoline into the fire and nothing but gasoline into the fire. This has already gone too far. There are 70 Members in this House who today are going to sign a petition for urgent appearance by President Mariano Rajoy to discuss the situation in Catalonia at once because if you... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u36	Thank you very much. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u37	Madam President. Mr Domènech, your political confluence cannot be used to 'Everything against PP' being the only glue of your contradictions in Catalonia and the rest of Spain. Therefore, stop taking the Government as an alibi for its indecisions. Secondly, Mr Domènech, this government has spoken and tried to dialogue with Catalonia - in this you do not have the exclusive monopoly - but what they have told us is simply one thing: they just wanted to talk about the referendum. And no president of a democratic government can skip the law. Therefore, Mr Domènech, it is appropriate that today, rather than asking for appearances, it should be clarified in this House. Are you of those who respect the law or of those who support others to disobey it? Do you, when you propose laws in this House, do so for all citizens to comply with or for anyone to miss? Are you, when lawlessness is breached, the ones who believe that judges have to act or that anyone takes justice by their hand? Pronounce yourself, Mr. Domènech, are you a full-time Democrat or a part-time Democrat? Are you a Democrat according to the circumstances or at all times? [[Applauds]] Mr Domènech, neither the Government has the monopoly of the defence of law and democracy - it has the whole State - nor you have the monopoly of dialogue, and what you cannot do is stand in the middle of the way between the right of self-determination - which does not exist - and the defence of the rights of all Catalans and all Spaniards. Mr Domènech, what you cannot claim is to confuse discrepancies - that there are and are legitimate - with protecting disobediences - that are always illegal. Finally, allow me a piece of advice, Mr Domènech, you ask on behalf of Catalonia and want to speak on behalf of the entire Catalan people. I think you're getting too much of your night meetings with Mr. Junqueras... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u38	Your Honor, you have to finish because there's been an accountant failure. As you have seen, there has been a clock failure, which has stopped in two minutes thirty seconds and did not compute the first intervention. Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHICH FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: WHY DOES THE Vice-President SAY THAT A CATALANA PARLIAMENTARY VOTATION SUBJECT THE DEATH OF DEMOCRACY? [[File number 180/00305]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u39	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Sáenz de Santamaría, Vice-President, I will make it easy for you. He's gonna understand it all the way to his collarbone. We understand that it is hard for you to be a residual force in Catalonia - I am referring to the People's Party in a country where, together with your orange minion, they bring together only one mayor - but why do you say that an absolutely democratic vote in the Catalan Parliament means the death of democracy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u40	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u41	Mr Rufián, I am surprised that, given your parliamentary style, you ask me what I meant by that expression. More than anything because it is the same one that many parliamentary groups used in that session of Parliament. And more things would have been said if their boss, Mrs Forcadell, had allowed them to speak, because in this Parliament only those who put ahead independence to democracy, independence to freedom spoke. And if you want to know why I said it, but it's not that I say it, it's that all the Spaniards and the whole world watched it on live television for ten hours in a row. And if they didn't have enough, the next day they had the sequel. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u42	Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u43	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, I understand that Mrs Pastor is also your head. Then we are happy, because the last time they left the Parliament of Catalonia was not to condemn Francoism. [[Rumors and Protests]] This is what they're chasing. [[Remove and show a printer.- Rumors]] Don't get nervous. This is the body of the crime. I understand your friends in the press have already warned you. Don't worry, because she's a humble Samsung Republican. It's not as dangerous as a Ricoh, an Epson or an HP. In short, it does not print 500 euro banknotes. I'd print them in black and white. What I'm asking you to do is stop being ridiculous. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u44	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u45	Stop chasing printers, campaign for no and, above all, stop chasing printers, stop chasing printers, and chase corrupt and thieves. I'm giving you a confession, Madam Vice President, I hope you won't stop me. I have a ballot, I confess, but I also swear it's for my own consumption. I'll see you at the polls. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u46	Madam Vice President, come in. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u47	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Rufián, the best thermometer of the quality of democracy is the treatment given to the dissenter. The proof that this is a democratic House and the Parliament with Mrs Forcadell is not so has been your performance today. You can come here today to say whatever you want and bring whatever you want. You can come up with a T-shirt slogan, you can make a summary of the best tweets of the week - as you have done - and you can even bring the printer to teach us to do crafts to make the referendum at home. You can do whatever you want, because this is a democratic Parliament. It is a coincidence that this government, which is so critical of it, this state which is so annoying to it and this democracy which is so suffocating to it, will allow you even its weekly theatres. What we saw in the Catalan Parliament the other day was an exercise in tyranny that no one can defend. We could not speak, we could not amend, we could not speak the lawyers of the House, nobody could do anything that did not suit Mrs Forcadell and her group. If that's a democratic vote, let Montesquieu come and see it. Mrs. Forcadell killed democracy and you come here every Wednesday to bury her. But, Mr. Rufián, don't be fooled. We will protect the rights of Catalans against you who impose independence at the cost of the legality, democracy and freedoms that in Spain it has so much cost to get so many in this House, many before you. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well! Bravo!-Strong and prolonged applause]] - OF THE DEPUTY GABRIEL GONZALEZ RAMOS MANUAL, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES, FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT: WHAT MEASURES HAS THE GOVERNMENT ADOPTED BEFORE THE SEQUEA? [[File number 180/00314]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u48	Question to the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment. Question by Mr Manuel Gabriel González Ramos, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Let's change. What measures has the Government taken in the face of drought?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u50	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u52	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u53	Your Honor, the Government has launched numerous actions to alleviate the effects of drought, a recurring problem in Spain: measures in the area of the CAP, with the advance from 16 October of more than 3000 million euros that farmers will be able to receive; measures in the fiscal field, reducing the modules in 2016 - even more will have to be done in 2017 -; measures in the area of financing, with aid for credits worth 200 million euros. We've passed three royal drought decrees... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u54	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u55	... in the basins of Duero, Jucar and Segura; we have carried out 28 emergency actions worth more than 83 million euros; we have mobilized about 280 additional cubic meters in the basins of Segura and Jucar to avoid restrictions; we have approved the Royal Decree-Law 10/2017 to apply exemptions to tariffs and fees and moratoriums to social security contributions, among other measures, and all this in addition to reinforcing the policy of agricultural insurance, which has been shown to be the best system of risk management at the level of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. González Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u57	Good morning again, Minister. Good and dry days, because this hydrological year that is about to end has been a dry year, and not only the state of drought in which we live is alarming, it is almost equally alarming, despite its proposals, the inaction of its Government over the past few years. They have promised water, minister, even if the well is dry, because in your party, minister, they are repeated in their failure in water management. The ministry has acted late and evil. Some of your disagreements: the budget cuts year after year for agricultural insurance; in their star measure against drought, the royal decree-law they dealt with as a matter of urgency, remained short, because they have left out hydrographic demarcations that are suffering from drought: Ebro, Guadiana, Tajo; they promise water to dry Spain through drought wells or transfers from dry Spain itself, thus confronting farmers and users, and you remain so wide. Remember that climate change is with us and causes, among other things, drought cycles to worsen in intensity and frequency. Droughts are not resolved by urgent and improvised measures, such as the Royal Decree-Law, without prevention and planning. Madam Minister, it has been difficult for them to take on the usefulness of the desalinators that have so much damaged and clumsy; now reality has made them change their minds. Do you remember what some of your party correspondents said? Do you remember what González Pons said in 2008? He said, "If the PP wins the election, there will be no disheartening." Yes, we have lost six precious and valuable years, Minister, because all this time you have not done water policy, you have done water policy; you have traded and promised water where there is no water and you have lied to farmers and users. You, Minister, want a national pact for water, but, yes, you want to agree with you. What we want is a social pact for water, a pact in which all are included, all the autonomous communities and all the users. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u58	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President. I never thought they'd have the boldness to talk about water from their bench. You know that when we got to the government we didn't have a single river basin plan approved in Spain. He also knows that the Community obligation was to have them in 2009. He knows that in four years we've had to pass two cycles. In four years the Government of the People's Party has done the work of twelve, because two legislatures were lost whole with governments of the Socialist Party. Today we have the water planned and because we have the approved watershed hydrological plans we can take one step further, which is to move forward in a national water pact, where I am sure we will find ourselves, because it is an open pact to fix problems as important as the lack of water where it is needed, environmental problems, flood risk management problems; indeed, flood risk management plans that also had to be approved, but were not, and we, as always, had to fix the shortcomings of the previous governments. We have talked about drought and I want to end up giving an important fact. You know very well that the autonomous communities are competent in agriculture, they are all equally competent. From the important battery of measures that I have mentioned before, I would like to highlight one point of interest: only the communities governed by the People's Party have implemented additional measures to those of the Government, only those governed by the People's Party. I think that says it all. [[Let's give it up.-A honourable Member: Good!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u60	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL Adriana LASTRA FERNANDEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO DO SO THAT ECONOMIC RECOVERY COMES WITH A BETTER RANCH OF THE INCOME? [[File number 180/00311]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u61	Questions now addressed to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Adriana Lastra Fernández, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u62	Thank you, Madam President. What will the government do to ensure that economic recovery is accompanied by a fairer distribution of income?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u63	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Lastra, first of all, the Government intends to continue to promote job creation, to create more than five hundred thousand jobs a year. Secondly, as the productivity and competitiveness of our economy improves, wages, wages in the private and public sectors will also increase, and in this regard we are preparing a wage increase in the Public Service agreed with the trade unions. Thirdly, through the strengthening of the welfare state - fourteen million people are collecting public income in our country - and by lowering taxes precisely on our country's lower incomes, which we are also planning to do in the next General State Budgets, we are working with other political formations so that, in fact, lower-income citizens can improve their economic capacity and thus make the economic recovery that no one anymore denies more inclusive and more equitable, not even you, because they cannot cope with that reality. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lastra.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, five and a half years ago your labour reform and, in this global context of recovery that no one denies, your labour reform served essentially one thing, to create precarious jobs with low wages. That is the reality we have today. At present, the wage of 40% of the workers, who earn less, is not that it increases, is that it has decreased, is that the weight of wages has been reduced on the gross domestic product while it has increased that of the income of capital. You were talking about productivity, and it is true that there has been an increase in productivity, but it has not been translated into an increase in wages. And business profits - you know very well - have grown at a rate that has nothing to do with rising wages. Today, a person entering the labour market would charge 25% less than the rest of the workers, i.e. that what has been achieved in these five and a half years is precisely this: precarious work, low wages and, above all, something we thought we were no longer going to see in this country, that it is the poor workers who do not arrive at the end of the month; that 10% of the workers who do not do so badly to reach the end of the month, is that with what they charge they do not have to pay the shopping basket. That's the reality today, Mr. Montoro. In 2012 workers with an income below 60% of the average were 10.8 of the population; in 2015 they were 13.1, that is, we are at a level within the European Union only surpassed by Romania and Greece. This is not a success. Moreover, it is not a question of the economic situation, it is that this is your model, it is the model you imposed, that of low wages, that of the precariousness of employment, that of converting good jobs into precarious jobs, into the creation of poor workers. And what I'm wondering is, are you comfortable in this situation, generating inequality day after day? What I'm wondering is, what are you going to do so that working at the end means not being poor at the end of the month? That is what we are asking, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u67	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Lastra, what is happening in Spain is that we are recovering the destruction of employment caused by the policies of the socialist government. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] That's exactly what we're doing, Your Honor. A country that destroys 3.5 million jobs is a country that does not exist anywhere in the West. That was achieved by the Socialist Government in this House, supported precisely by many of you, who voted in favour of those budgetary policies, those policies which served only to destroy hundreds of thousands of jobs each year. We are now recovering them and that is the economic recovery: at the end of this term they will be working in Spain almost 20.5 million people, who are the same people who worked in 2007, but will do so with more national wealth. From there, there is also the question of an equitable distribution of that growth and wealth, and that is what we are going to do in the next draft General State Budgets, lowering taxes on our country's middle-low incomes. Where will the Socialist Party be in this programme of economic recovery and job creation? Stop disqualifying and...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u69	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIAN BEITIALARRANGOITIA LIZARRALDE, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF ACHIEVEMENT AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WILL THE GOVERNMENT DETERMINE TO PROTECT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF LOCAL ENTITIES BY LAWS LIKE BUDGETARY ESTABLISHMENT WHICH UNDERSTAND AN ATTACH TO THEIR COMPETITION, TO THE AUTHORITY OF THE GOVERNMENT, TAKING INTO ACCOUNT ALSO THE GOOD MANAGEMENT OF GOOD PART OF ELLES, WHICH HAVE REDUCED CONSIDERABLELY YOUR DUTY AND IN SOME CASES HAVE CLOSED THE ACCOUNTS OF THE YEAR'S PAST WITH SUPERAVIT? [[File number 180/00303]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u70	Question by Mrs Marian Beitialarrangoitia Lizarralde, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Montoro, are you going to stop the government from protecting the actions of local entities?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u72	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, the Government is not going to abandon its responsibilities, which are those conferred on it by the Spanish Constitution and the legislation in force, including the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability. The same applies to the government in relation to European rules and governance. I do not know whether your Honor agrees with these European standards - I am sure you will say yes, but in that very untrue way - but the Government is exercising its responsibilities, I insist, and complying with the requirements of the Constitution and the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u74	Thank you very much. Mrs. Beitialarrangoidia.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u75	Mr Montoro, you cling to the laws that you yourselves pass, in that austere desire that you must put deficit control ahead of social entities, in order to be able to carry out all the policies that lead the Government to treat local entities as lower-ranking institutions. They reserve for you most of the deficit, even though they know that it is the autonomous communities that carry out much of the social expenditure, and leave the municipalities without any room for manoeuvre, tied up with their feet and hands, to implement the policies that citizens need, and they do so with the laws that you passed by an absolute majority. They want to decide for them, they attack their competences and autonomy - that is also to respect the current legislation - and they have a re-centralizing action that makes many municipalities practically intervene. They even make them pay for the structural crisis that you have generated for the benefit of the financial sector. You, the responsible, want to stand up as guardians of the municipalities whose accounts are much healthier, and I wonder how long you're going to do that. The truth is that it would take much more time than I have to list all the cases of municipalities than in the Basque Autonomous Community and in Nafarroa ended in 2016, having considerably reduced their debt or those who did so with surplus - which there are, and many, fortunately - like Iruña, like Lizarra or as Tutera. I will also mention to you the debt of the municipalities of my province, Gipuzkoa, which has fallen below 300 million euros and is the best figure of the last decade. It is clear that municipalities are the most compliant administrations, but right now they are unjustly locked in a zero percent forced deficit, even with resources to implement other policies. And you want to protect them, when you are neither immature nor incapable of governing yourself. It happens to them with the municipalities more or less what happens to them with the Catalan population, who think that deciding for them will go better, when experience shows that when you organize yourself and have the decisions in your hand it goes much better. The population of Euskal Herria is equally clear. Therefore, what we ask the government, Mr Montoro, is that you stop deciding for us, that we don't want them to rule us, that...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u76	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, if it is the law that governs you, if it is the rule of law and democracy. In this House we have endeavoured to question a number of fundamental elements of democracy, of what it ultimately means to belong to Europe, of what it means to correct our public deficit in accordance with the principles of our integration into Europe, with the euro. But we are working with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces on a matter relating to the one known as the rule of expenditure, and at the moment when Spain abandons the excessive deficit procedure, we are working in terms of analysing and defining its contents according to the principles that come from European bodies. We are also working on another area, namely local reform, the reform of local finance in parallel with the reform of regional finance. All this seeks to provide more resources to our local corporations, which I do not know how many times I have had the opportunity to congratulate on their surplus - and to celebrate it too - and on the debt reduction they are carrying out, which is so much to boost economic growth and job creation in all these municipalities. Or is it that the job creation in Spain does not come from this budgetary policy that we are doing thousands of public administrations? That is the question that must be answered with all sincerity and frankness. Of course, the Government is clear and will continue to implement the policies that are favouring job creation in the vast majority of Spanish municipalities. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u78	Thank you very much. - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE PROVIDED FOR EXPLANATIONS ON THE ISSUES SUBJECT TO THE BARCELONA AND CHANGES THE LAST MONTH OF AUGUST? [[File number 180/00316]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u79	This is a question now addressed by the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Miguel Ángel Gutiérrez Vivas, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, Mr Zoido, first of all, from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group we wish to express once again our appreciation for the work of the Security Forces and Corpses in the attacks in Barcelona and Cambrils: the Mossos d'Esquadra, the National Police Corps, the Civil Guard, the Urban Guard and the emergency services of the Catalan Generalitat. Minister, we know that it is not easy to manage this crisis effectively and properly, a complicated crisis, but we are sure and convinced that it is possible to draw lessons from it, Mr Zoido, to make self-criticism. Self-criticism is always good, because it also helps us grow, helps us to improve as a country. Mr Zoido, we have been asking you for a report on what happened during all these attacks; we have been asking you for a report on what happened, what self-criticism you can do, what those teachings are, and we are still waiting for that report, Mr Zoido, and the Spanish want to know. The Spaniards want to know if it is true that there was an alert or an alarm from a foreign intelligence service, the Spaniards want to know how it can be that a Spanish ex-con accused of drug trafficking and with an expulsion order can travel through Europe, they want to know why it can also become a magnet in a Spanish municipality. The Spaniards want to know what happened in Alcanar, why the Tedax didn't come, what investigation was done there, what happened to the wounded. Therefore, Minister, I ask you: do you not believe the government, do you not believe the minister, that with all these questions you should have appeared voluntarily and urgently before this House and given the appropriate explanations? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u81	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u82	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to express my condolences to the family of the Deputy Police Inspector who lost his life in service yesterday in Valencia and to have a memory for the entire National Police Corps. [[Applauds]] Mr Gutiérrez, I certainly share with you that self-criticism is always good, that self-criticism will allow us to grow, but let me tell you that the Government of Spain has been managing the information of the terrible attacks in Barcelona and Cambrils with great prudence and responsibility and at the same time has been giving the information that could be moved. It has been doing so with transparency, it has done so in real time and, I sincerely say, with a great deal of loyalty. We did it at the call of the Counter-Terrorism Pact on the 21st. Political decisions are under way, but there is a judicial investigation and it must be respected. Until then, one of the questions you have asked cannot be answered.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Gutierrez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u84	Minister, I understand that you do not want me to say that the control of the government in this House is going to steal you through an anti-jihadist pact full of listeners and full of parties that do not even have representation in this House. You think that control of the government is done outside the Congress of Deputies, but we believe that no, we believe that the Congress of Deputies is the place to make this control of the government. Mr. Zoido, we point out to you the convenience and the need for you to appear voluntarily. You wasted a unique opportunity yesterday, because you had an appearance on the Internal Affairs Committee. He could have told us yesterday, he could have told us something; all the groups would have been happy to give up our space for that, but he didn't. Minister, you can still correct this situation. We urge you to do so, please, because the past cannot be changed, but the future can be corrected. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u85	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u86	On the same day of the attacks, on the 17th, they had timely information about what was happening. On the 18th we share some acts of revulsion in Barcelona itself. On 19th, the Review Bureau on the Terrorist Alert met and, unanimously, all security specialists and experts agreed to maintain level four strengthened. On the 21st I made the transfer to all the groups that had either signed or as observers wanted to participate - I think it was a time to be together instead of looking for a signature - and to all I gave them all the explanations that could be transferred, because the others are subject to secrecy of summary. It seems a lie that you too, right now, when it hasn't even been a month, want to know the conclusions that the judge keeps secret because he's conducting an investigation. And I tell you that the security forces and operatives are already reviewing the protocols to be able to draw conclusions, but one thing will be what we can facilitate when we have them and another is the judicial investigation that is still subject to summary secrecy. Let us not use politically acts as terrible as the attacks in Barcelona and Cambrils. It seems to me that the rating I could use would be very great and I don't want to do it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u87	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE DON JOSÉ LUIS ABALS MECO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WILL THE GOVERNMENT TAKE ANY MEASURES TO INCREASE SALARYS? [[File number 180/00312]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u88	Question to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. Question by Mr José Luis Ábalos Meco, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor. Mr Ábalos Meco: Thank you, Madam President. Minister, will the government take any measures to increase wages?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u89	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, you know very well that wages in Spain are decided in collective bargaining by trade unions and employers, and as far as the government is concerned, which is the definition and raising of the minimum wage each year, last year we agreed with your party an increase of 8% for 2017. In the field of Public Service the table is open and the unions and the Ministry of Finance and Public Service are working to raise wages in the coming years in Spain. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Abalos. Mr Ábalos Meco: Thank you very much, Minister. I'm not satisfied with your answer, but I think it's consistent. It seems to me consistent to do nothing and let things work out by their very nature. That responds to a model, of course, the model of the right, and that is not correcting any problem on the market. The Spanish economy has been growing for four years - growing; this is not economic recovery - and the last three above 3%, but the citizenry does not notice any benefit from this, are benefits outside society. That is why, when the President of the Government presumes economic growth, people do not share it. Why? Because it does not notice, and when it is not noticed, the perception is reality, and the reality is that there is no economic recovery if there is no distribution of the benefits of that growth precisely among those who have paid the most for the crisis. Today most workers earn a euro more than five years ago; a litre of milk, that is. Precarity has been installed in the labour market and today we have poor workers. That myth that getting out of poverty was enough to get a job is over, because there are poor workers too. But this is a political alibi; it is not an effect of nature or of the market, but a problem that you have a political project whose economic benefit is based on the exploitation of workers, on labour exploitation. Hence his labor reform. There you do have initiative; to cut workers' rights, yes, but to raise wages, no. A country is not rich with poor workers, nor is it worthy of unworthy wages. In addition to the social drama, there is also a need to stimulate consumption and low wages are not going to be achieved. We therefore urge you to make a real policy and not that of the SSS, which I do not know what you would be thinking. They raise the minimum wage by EUR 1000 by 2020, ease the wage gap between men and women, stimulate and lead the social dialogue so that next year we have a 2.5% wage increase and 3% by 2020. They must be put at the head of that claim in order to bring about an economic recovery and not an economic benefit for a few. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u92	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Ábalos, I would like to make three clarifications regarding your intervention. The first is positive, as they finally recognize a solid recovery. The first S in Spain. Secondly, I find it incredible that the Socialist Party wants a recovery in Spain for a few. Mr. Ábalos, do you know who is closest to poverty? Those millions of unemployed people who with their economic policies and the crisis left you in Spain without knowing how to manage them: 3 300 000 people. There is not a single word in your income pact document that refers to the unemployed and the unemployed, and that worries me. We want the unemployed and employment to be the country's top priority. Thirdly, wages are decided in collective bargaining and we respect the social partners. Mr. Abalos, you don't believe your own words. Trade unions and employers have made a great deal of commitment and have had a great responsibility for recovery. Do you know what you've achieved since 2014? That every year in Spain the purchasing power of workers is increased, that 500 000 jobs are created and that every year productivity in companies increases. That is a healthy growth of the economy, counting on all, with the unemployed finding employment, with the wage earners to whom every year their wages are raised, as decided in collective bargaining, and having a country with greater productivity and competitiveness to meet the challenges of the future. That is where we want the Socialist Party, counting on all; that counts and remembers the unemployed, because the main thing is employment, and that respects trade unions and employers, because collective bargaining in Spain is its own field. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT MEASURES ARE TO BE DEVELOPED THE GOVERNMENT TO CORRECT THE INCREASE OF LABORAL POVERTY AND UNEQUALITY? [[File number 180/00304]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u94	Question by Mr Alberto Garzón Espinosa, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u95	Minister, what is the government going to do to correct the rise in labour poverty and inequality?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u96	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Garzón. You know very well, as the International Labour Organization has certified, that the increase in inequality in Spain by 80% is due to the severe destruction of more than 3.5 million jobs during the crisis. The first thing to do, therefore, is to find a job for the thousands of people - over 3 million - who are still unemployed in our country. Until we reach those 20 million occupied and the recovery reaches everyone who deserves and wants to work and has not yet been able to do so, we will continue to strengthen long-term unemployment programmes and active policies with the autonomous communities and the social partners so that such recovery is for everyone as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Garzón.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u99	Madam Minister, I do not presume any kind of malice to the government, much less, I just think they put the focus and the interests in places other than us. On August 27, you said here in Congress that the job you created was of better quality than the one you left. He was unlucky because just a few days later, on 31 August, more than 266,000 jobs were destroyed. It is not an ordinary figure, but the highest of job destruction in a single day throughout the history of Spain, and it is the consequence of a model. The model goes beyond the individual wishes of workers, is a model driven, driven and promoted by a certain government, its own: the model of precariousness, low wages and a productive model based on seasonality and low added value. Madam Minister, your denial of precariousness is surprising, especially given your own data. It is true that there are more busy than in 2012, but much less busy than in 2008; but it is also true that there are 18 million hours less worked per week. It's a rule of three, there's more busy, there's less hours worked, which means there's less hours, less wages, more precariousness. That cannot be denied, it is as I said a purely arithmetic question. This is the result of your model, precariousness. But, Mrs. Báñez, these aren't numbers, they're people. In July 2007 the average duration of a contract was seventy-three days, in July 2017 the average duration of a contract was forty-nine days. Greater precariousness, and I ask you if you with a contract of fifty days could arrive at the end of the month, you could make decisions like having a family, having offspring, buying a house or going on vacation. Notice that it is an average, fifty days, and as an average you know that one in four contracts are less than seven days long. You are Andalusian, you know the figure of the handler, that foreman who attended to the people who wanted to work and said to him: you have a job, you have no job, and hopefully the next day you could play that bet again. What you are doing with your policies is turning the handlebar - now called invisible hand - into a permanent crisis of the working class and people. That's a model and it's avoidable; do it because they have the ability to do it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u100	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u101	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Garzón, Spain today is Spain's job recovery, whether you like it or not. You tell me: what happened in 2017? A figure of hope, between January and August 2017 460,000 jobs have already been created in Spain. We are very close to the goal of creating 500 000 jobs by the end of this year. These 460,000 jobs mean nothing more and nothing less than 15% more than what happened in 2016 in this country, which was a great year for employment. You tell me that the job that comes is of worse quality and is not true. Today in Spain three out of four people who work have an indefinite contract, 7 points more than before the crisis. Moreover, the employment that comes is better than the one that goes away, because 72% of the employment recovered is timeless and we have only recovered 44% of the temporary. We have had forty-three consecutive months of continuous increase in indefinite recruitment in Spain. You talk to me about national accounting and I want you to be rigorous, as an economist. With a million and a half fewer jobs still in Spain today, the total wage of employees is 0.5% more than in 2007, whether you like it or not. And wage earners have increased during the recovery by 9.8 and corporate profit by 9.3. Therefore, employment is created and every day also of higher quality, although much remains to be done, Mr Garzón. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u102	Thank you very much. - OF THE SAURA GARCIA PEDRO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ECONOMY, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS: WHAT Policies to deploy the Government to improve THE PRODUCTIVITY OF ECONOMIC ACTIVITY? [[File number 180/00313]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u103	Questions now to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness. Question by Mr Pedro Saura García, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, what measures does the Government intend to deploy to increase the productivity of the Spanish economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u105	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, as you know productivity is a very important variable, as the increase in hours worked plus productivity determines the medium-term growth of an economy. In the case of the Spanish economy something important is being given. On the one hand, as the Minister for Employment said, there is a very significant increase in employment and hours worked - hours worked since the beginning of the recovery have increased by 8% - and on the other hand, productivity per hour worked in Spain is currently the fastest growing one. We are according to the OECD growing above - in terms of productivity, of working time - developed countries. This is a consequence of a factor, that there is a significant increase in investment in Spain and that Spain is a competitive country. In addition, investment, unlike in the past, does not depend solely on construction, whose contribution to productivity is very limited, but is investment in fixed capital, and that is what is currently determining that the Spanish economy will grow, almost for the fourth consecutive year, above 3%. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Saura, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, let's see if you understand. Why doesn't economic growth reach the majority of Spaniards? Firstly, because employment is worse, in a way that is happening in our country from the proletariat to the precarious. Secondly, because for many citizens and young people wages are miserable, so that wages, workers' incomes are losing in a very important way on national wealth, and because productivity is growing in year-to-year rates well below 0.5 - I insist, in year-to-year rates. Ultimately, this model of economic growth is unsustainable to finance the welfare state and also socially unsustainable. In the DNA of its growth model, inequality must be increased in order to increase competitiveness; that is, inequality finances competitiveness, and that is unsustainable from an economic and social point of view. There is another model for our country, another economic model and another model of society that goes by investing in increasing productivity, because in this way we increase wages; but not only that, Minister, but - this certainly puts hair on the right as scarves - increasing wages and improving the quality of employment also increases productivity. The problem we have is that we have entered a new economic paradigm of secular stagnation also of productivity. So what we are asking of the social majority in this country and the Socialist Party is to increase wages, the quality of employment, because that will also increase productivity. That is why we are proposing that the government lead, because it is its responsibility, an income pact and that the government increase the inter-professional minimum wage to EUR 1,000 by 2020. That is very important, because its model of society is to impoverish the majority. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u109	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u110	Thank you very much. Our model of society and our economic model is that of growth above 3%, job creation around half a million jobs per year, the significant reduction in the unemployment rate. We will have economic projections again with the presentation of the budgets and you will see how they continue to improve the conditions for the evolution of the labour market. And again I say that in terms of productivity - and I agree with you - there is a problem of secular stagnation of productivity in the world, and Spain now combines a very intense job creation, a very significant increase in the number of hours worked and an increase in productivity per hour worked. That is the best reason for the future of the evolution of the Spanish economy. And I will tell you that this is achieved primarily by a number of factors: one, maintaining economic balance; secondly, maintaining the competitiveness of the Spanish economy and encouraging investment, and above all through a question that is basic: human capital. Human capital is training policy and education. Through an increase in productivity based on the total productivity of the factors, which is the one that is increasing in Spain, we will be able to match upward wage developments with the continuation in the creation of employment, which must be the goal of all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u111	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Idoia SAGASTIZABAL UNZETABARRENETXEA, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ACHIEVEMENT AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHAT IS THE POSITION OF THE GOVERNMENT WITH REGARD TO THE SITUATION OF THE LANAVAL SHIPYARD ASTILLER? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[NORTHERN NAVAL CONSTRUCTIONS, S.L.]] [[File number 180/00309]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u112	Question by Mrs Idoia Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea of the Basque Parliamentary Group
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u113	Thank you, President. The Naval de Sestao is currently a private company and in its privatization the Government of Spain had much to say. He is currently in difficulty due to the decision of the owners of a creditor tender. The naval sector has undergone numerous conversions, but I will refer exclusively to that of 2005, in which the Government of the State decided the liquidation of the public enterprise IZAR, which was the result of the merger of AESA, dedicated to the civil shipbuilding, in which was La Naval de Sestao, and Bazán, dedicated to the military shipbuilding. The liquidation of IZAR was due to the impossibility of returning a number of aid required by the European Economic Commission. From this process of split is born the public company Navantia, to which the military business was reserved exclusively, thinking that in this way the competition was avoided and the business secured through the public budget, leaving therefore out of Navantia to the Naval of Sestao; that is, they privatized the civil business, a decision with which the Basque government did not agree and which was criticized from this bench. We also asked that the Naval of Sestao be part of Navantia, because we believed that this would make the company more protected, a protection that is now evident necessary. SEPI reserved for Navantia the military shipbuilding, but it must be said that since 2015 it can operate in the civil business without any limitation, so it can compete with the rest of the shipyards for the markets for the construction of gas ships or marine wind platforms, elements of high added value in which all the shipbuilding tries to take positions, but that is so, under conditions far more advantageous than the rest of the private shipyards, since they have public financing and other types of aid that the others lack. This is also partly the result of past decisions. The consequence of this privatization is also the pact that granted exceptional protection to the staff of La Naval for a period of ten years and by which the former IZAR, today Navantia, undertook to rescue the workers in case of dismissal by reduction of the staff or by closure and disappearance of the shipyard, and by which these workers have already sent a letter to SEPI in this regard. For all this, we ask you, Minister, what is the position of the Government with regard to La Naval de Sestao appealing to its responsibility or to the responsibility that the Government of the State had in the decision to privatize the civil shipbuilding business and its obligations towards the workers, in a sector that is strategic for us, with potential for industrial social economic development, with great technological capacity to be a tractor of the economy, and so the Basque Government will also accompany the ship in the search for alternatives for the continuity of this shipyard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u114	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u115	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, as you have already indicated, at the end of August the Naval had to apply for a tender from creditors, since it had a negative net worth of approximately EUR 50 million and an evolution resulting from the cost overruns of its orders and delays in the construction of several ships that have caused it significant penalties for non-compliance with delivery deadlines. Currently, however, the Naval has four ships under construction: a ferry, two dredges and a cable boat. Despite this workload, estimates of losses exceed EUR 50 million, with an additional 24 to be added in terms of penalties. In these circumstances the company itself decided to recompose the board of directors, and a month later it agreed to extend the capital, since it seemed that there was a partner who could enter and contribute this capital, but the offer has not been made, so the only way out was the tender of creditors. Our goal, shared also with the Basque Government, as the lehendakari has shown, is for this competition process to attract investors. In this regard, the Government is ready to cooperate in the search for private solutions. I agree with you on the importance of this company for the activity of the province of Vizcaya, and particularly of Sestao, where it generates more than two hundred direct jobs and about one thousand five hundred indirect jobs. Moreover, the existence of orders to the shipyard is proof of the power of the Basque companies in the naval sector. It is precisely in this respect that the General Secretariat of Industry has different lines of aid. It has allocated more than EUR 20 million over the past five years to projects to improve competitiveness and 425 to help offset the evolution of interest rates in order to match the financial costs of our shipyards with those of the main competitors. We also have a Reindus Plan for the left bank of the Nervión, where La Naval is based, from which have benefited about fifteen industrial projects, for more than 18.5 million euros in the period 2012-2016. In any case, I would like to insist, Your Honor, that the Government follows very closely the situation of the shipyard and its workers, an important part of which they have the right to be relocated to Navantia, as your Lordship knows perfectly well. We will therefore be in contact with the Basque Government to seek, as I said earlier, the best private solution for this shipyard which has a workload and whose fundamental problem has been management. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u116	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sagastizabal.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u117	Thank you very much. Minister, it is true that I have to tell you that we are concerned because this closure affects a specific area, many workers and a large number of companies...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u118	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u119	I simply want to reiterate our willingness to work with the Basque Government to find a solution, I insist, in private terms for a company that has a workload and needs to improve its management. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u120	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF AGELES ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHY DID THE GOVERNMENT NOT INCLUDE SEXUAL AGRICULTURAL PREVENTION PROGRAMMES IN THE ORDER OF THE SECTORAL CONFERENCE ON EQUALITY OF THE MONTH OF JUNE WHERE THE CRITERIA FOR DISTRIBUTION BETWEEN THE AUTOMOUS COMMUNITIES ARE APPROVED? [[File number 180/00315]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u121	Questions now to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. Question by Mrs Ángeles Álvarez Álvarez, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Come in. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Good morning, Minister. Let me give you three data. At least three women are raped every day in Spain. Twenty-five per cent of Spaniards are victims of sexual abuse and nearly eight hundred crimes of sexual abuse were committed by minors in 2016, which is the highest figure of the entire decade. I would like to assume that you are interested in stopping this, and that being a minister is also aware that it is in your hand to try to do so, but the truth is another. The truth is that at this point in the year you have not yet moved a single finger to enable the 2 million euros that you negotiated with this group in the budget debate, and which have been in the State's Official Gazette since June, but not at the disposal of the victims, precisely because of their lack of diligence. Your desire in management can lead to the autonomous communities not being in time to plan and implement the programs, so I ask you to commit yourself here this morning to transfer these items as a multi-year fund, because otherwise it will be clear that you are in the ministry not to manage in this case in favor of the victims, but to save Mr Rajoy 2 million euros, precisely at the cost of leaving them at the stand. What you need to know is that resources are not taken away from the autonomous communities, resources are taken away from each of the women who have to face the consequences of rape. Look at what a disturbing connection we met yesterday. They delay the arrival at the plenary session of the anti-violence pact so that the draft budgets will enter just after the next Friday that goes to the Council of Ministers. Tell me why we have to trust a government that says it will contribute to the fight against violence 1 billion in five years, when they are not even able to manage and distribute in time and form 2 million in 2017 to prevent and support victims of sexual assault. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u122	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u123	Thank you, President. Mrs Álvarez, first of all we must say that we are all - and the Government of Spain is the first - committed to a society free of macho violence, free of violence, because our concern is for women victims, their children, their families, and because we want a society free of violence and therefore we have to eradicate this scourge. I will tell you more, the Government of Spain and the Group of the Party of European Socialists have agreed with the Socialist Group to include this amendment which you are telling me in the budgets, but the irresponsible ones were you who said no to the budgets, to an amendment tabled by you and which we accept. I will tell you more, this ministry in what goes on in the legislature has convened five sectoral conferences and interterritorial councils, with all the autonomous councillors - one of health, two of social, one of equality and one of drugs -. I will tell you more, the equality one was held on 29 June, just the same day the budgets were approved. Therefore we simply did not have material time to include the amendment of the budgets that you did not vote at the sectoral conference precisely because it was the same day, but my commitment is of constant dialogue with all the autonomous councillors, in constant agreement, and we have demonstrated it in just eight months of legislature with five interterritorial conferences with the councillors in our ministry. Therefore, my commitment is firm in the implementation of the budgets, and this item will be implemented and will be taken to the next Inter-Territorial Equality Council in the ministry with the advisors. [[Applauds]] There's no doubt about it. And I'm going to tell you more, we from the government are working for a society free of gender-based violence with a triple commitment: women victims, their children and their families; with a political commitment and with an economic commitment. And that's how we've proved it. The first, unbreakable commitment to women victims, their children and their families. I want to highlight the ten years that telephone 016 has just fulfilled that so many families have helped. The second, at last Friday's Council of Ministers, we have made the most important contract in our history for the acquisition of protection bracelets for victims, for 15 million euros, where we have moved from 2G to 3G and 4G to protect victims. And third, President Rajoy's political commitment to the investiture debate. That is why we have worked together all the political forces in this House for a future state pact, which I am convinced we will achieve and with a firm budgetary commitment in future budgets... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u124	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alvarez. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Look, minister, dialogue you, but distribute the money to the communities. Why? Because not doing so puts the government in an immoral act.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u125	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Angela Rodriguez MARTÍNEZ, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE COMMAND IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT PRESENT TO ACT ON THE LISTS OF EXPERIENCE RELATING TO PRIVATE HEALTH? [[File number 180/00306]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u126	Question by Ángela Rodríguez Martínez, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Does the minister plan to use private health care to manage waiting lists?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u128	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u129	President. Thank you, Your Honor. Patients, all of us, are the raison d'être of our National Health System. From the Government, from the Ministry of Health we work every day to consolidate public health, promote the cohesion, quality and equity of health care that all citizens require, and we always do so from respect for the competences of the autonomous communities and also always working closely with them, who are responsible for health management in their territories and therefore waiting lists. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u130	Thank you very much. Mrs. Rodriguez, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u131	What a coincidence, Minister, that the same entities and private health insurers that are behind the hospitals in their governments, that have put our hospitals worse and more expensively managed, are the same entities that through the IRIS this week and previous days have offered them for the modest price of EUR 1500 million to solve all the problems of waiting lists. The question we are asking you today is whether you want to privatize health to solve this problem, because we have two doubts about this. The first, or you are a government that is not able to solve people's problems and so even today we still have waiting lists. And the second, or you want to cheat, you want to take advantage of our rights, you want to take advantage of the right to health. Therefore, Minister, we ask you today whether you want to privatize waiting lists as well. And all we have to do is read the preliminary draft health legislation that they have done, both in the Community of Madrid with a government of their party and in Galicia, to know that this is their way. Of course we ask you not to cheat, we ask you please; we ask you - so much that you presume - to be constitutionalists, to be provided and to protect the right to health, because it is a real shame that you are playing with this. Minister, as with your policies, you, who may have the honor of receiving the precious title of director of the ministry of life, will end up having that of the ministry of death, that of the ministry of the people waiting for help, that of the ministry of the people who cannot operate, that of the ministry of the women who continue to be murdered. And worst of all, Minister - it is really creepy and I think it is very important also for what you have just said - do not depoliticize the debate on pain. All human beings know what pain is. The truly chilling thing - and one when you say it is filled with tears - is that you continue to do business with our lives, you go to people's lives in it, minister. So please stop waiting and do as we do that we hope. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u132	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u133	Thank you, President. Your Honor, we will neither privatise the management of waiting lists nor have the competence to do so. Sometimes I wonder if you know that you are doing control of the Spanish government and not of the autonomous presidents. I will tell you more, the Ministry of Health - that is what I said earlier in the previous question - has convened and held five interterritorial conferences and councils in eight months with all the autonomous councillors - one of health, two of social, one of equality and one of drugs - where the Government of Spain together with the presidents of the autonomous communities are working side by side to improve our National Health System, which is the heritage of all. We are working with the Autonomous Communities on three lines of action. First, by dialogue, listening and agreeing, then let us do so with instruments as valid as the interterritorial councils. Secondly, improving funding. And third, promoting transparency. As far as funding is concerned, I would like to say that the Spanish Government, together with the autonomous presidents, decided at the beginning of the legislature to hold the Conference of Presidents, where one of the key points was the study and implementation of working groups in improving the system of autonomous financing, in which one of the essential points is health. The second important point in financing is that in these 2017 General State Budgets they go 53 billion euros more to the financing of the autonomous communities to dedicate them to what really matters to people, health. It is therefore the autonomous communities that will decide whether with this money what they do is manage their waiting lists or not. And the third important point is transparency. Thanks to the Transparency Act of 2013 since last year it is possible to access more detailed information on waiting lists than ever before. We had never had the information we have on the waiting lists in Spain. And currently in the ministry we are working on the creation of a specific portal for the National Health System that will see all health indicators and that will allow us, together with the autonomous communities, to improve the efficiency of all resources... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u134	Thank you very much. Before we begin with the calls to the Government, I would like to remind you that it is not allowed in the Chamber to take photographs or videos. That is covered by the Rules of Procedure. In the last question without going any further I have just seen how two Members took photographs very visibly - I do not know if I have not seen others doing them at other times - and the worst of all is that at a minute you have them hanging on the net. I mean, it's not just that you do them to remember them - which is also not allowed - but what you do is you go on the net something that doesn't allow the regulation. I would therefore ask you not to use the camera to make videos or photographs in this House until you decide - because it is all of us who have decided - to change the Rules of Procedure in another direction. To this day and as long as I am President of this House, the Rules of Procedure will be complied with at all extremes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u135	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group Citizens to the Minister of Development on their policies aimed at preventing and tackling the phenomenon of 'opupation'. For your defence, Mr. Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u136	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the crimes of occupation of buildings and houses, characterized as usurpation and defined in the Penal Code as the use of foreign property without authorization or violently, have experienced worrying and high growth in recent years. According to the National Institute of Statistics, we are talking about an increase of almost 300% since 2011. For example, the number of total usurpations would have increased by 92% compared to 2014, reaching 22,461 in 2015. It is necessary here to make a fundamental distinction between those situations that are vulnerable and organized crime groups, which take advantage of premeditated and profit-making purposes precisely of those in vulnerable situations. This is a distinction that must be kept in mind whenever we talk about the phenomenon of 'opupation', because if we did not, we would be incurring something truly tearing, which is the confusion of the real victims of situations of poverty and of disadvantaged situations - vulnerable people - with those who organize themselves to delinquent and exploit the misfortune of the former. Both the neighbors and the owners themselves are victims. Neighbor communities are experiencing a marked deterioration in coexistence where this phenomenon occurs. We know some examples in Barcelona, in El Raval, where what there are openly are narco-okupations, that is, drug trafficking behind the problem. We can consider this to be the most extreme case, but I assure you that in Barcelona, which is the case I know most closely, it is reaching unsustainable situations for coexistence. In any case, it is impossible for a lot of people - thousands every year - to enter their own homes when they return on vacation or after a short absence. The lack of protection of private property and the slow pace of judicial proceedings pose a serious problem for owners and neighbours. In December 2016, the Ombudsman initiated an ex officio action before the Secretariat of State for Security and the Office of the Attorney-General of the State arising from complaints from affected persons, private individuals. The Ombudsman recommended that adequate channels should be provided for the adoption of urgent precautionary measures that would give the owner of the property as soon as possible possession and enjoyment of the property and provide for prompt judicial proceedings. This recommendation, regrettably, was rejected. The right to private property is absolutely fundamental in any advanced legal system. Article 33 of our Constitution reads: '1. The right to private property and inheritance is recognized: 2. The social function of these rights shall define its content, in accordance with the laws: 3. No one may be deprived of his property and rights except for justified reasons of public utility or social interest, by means of corresponding compensation and in accordance with the provisions of the laws.' That is, whenever there is a limitation to that right, we find the requirement that it be, as it cannot be otherwise, in accordance with the laws. There are three fundamental distinctions to understand the phenomenon. The first distinction, which is of a legal nature, distinguishes between the limits that may be imposed on property rights in accordance with what I have just read to them - the Constitution and the laws themselves or the Civil Code - and, secondly, any other limits imposed on property that are not covered by the above cases, which, always and in any case, will be an intolerable interference with the legitimate right of a person to enjoy and dispose of his property. The second distinction would be of a political nature. There is the case of eviction, situations of need, of vulnerability - caused, for example, by foreclosure - and there is the case of occupation. Both represent, in fact, a limit to the right to property, but one deserves all our protection, to the extent possible, and the other deserves all our reproach and persecution. So let us not confuse the problem because if something were to be made clear of my intervention, even if it were only one thing, it would be this. They have nothing to do with many of the phenomena we find under the same label and basically the two great phenomena are absolutely contradictory to each other. I repeat: situations of vulnerability that we have an obligation to try to solve, situations of exploitation of the vulnerable by organized criminals. And we are going to a third distinction between two types of illegal occupations, because within the phenomenon of illegal occupation there are different cases: it is, as I told you, that of organized criminals, not that of the narcopies I have said before, no. About the terrible attacks we have suffered in Barcelona, it turns out that we knew that the cell was being organized in an occupied house; that would be the most serious case: organized crime that reaches terrorism. Then there is the case, within the illegal occupations, of the anti-system groups. We must act against both, against both, it is reproached, in both cases it becomes victims to owners and neighbors, in both cases it deteriorates the coexistence and in both cases we unfortunately conclude that in Spain there is little protection of private property, that in Spain the judicial processes to obtain such reparation are still very slow and that we need to tackle the current situation and prevent it in the future. We are aware that a law on the matter is currently being debated in this House and we agree that there is an urgent need to amend the Civil Prosecution Act in order to speed up judicial proceedings for the recovery of the full possession of housing by its owners. It is true that we have some criteria for changing the content of the proposal which we will be expressing within the time limit for amendments, but this does not prevent us from agreeing on the broad lines and the substance of the matter. However, although this law is in place and this is true, there are other aspects that need to be taken into account. One, the reform of the Organic Law on the Protection of Citizen Security in cases where the legitimate holder has reported that there is sufficient evidence that such property is being used for particularly serious criminal purposes, and I am talking about terrorism, drug trafficking or human trafficking. When these indications are given we believe that they should be considered by themselves legitimate cause sufficient for the entry, registration and identification of the occupants, regardless of any disputes over the legitimacy or not of the title of ownership. Two, the reform of article 245 of the Criminal Code to tighten the penalties provided for. At this particular point, we believe that it should be ensured that perpetrators of the crime of usurpation serve their sentences, which should serve to deter others from committing the same crime and prevent the proliferation of criminal organizations that profit from the phenomenon of occupation. Finally, it seems to us that it is essential to distinguish again between evictions and occupations. We want to protect the former and punish the latter, and to this end I will list four measures which we believe are fundamental. The first would be the flexibility of the requirements for the most vulnerable debtors to be able to cancel their debts. The second is the strengthening of municipal social care services for those affected by the occupation. The third is the assessment of the desirability of finalizing the Social Housing Fund. And fourthly, to create a portal for housing aid where all calls for aid arise from the various public administrations and their different levels. The comparative law protects the vision that I have just exposed to you. All countries in our environment have rapid procedures to immediately evict the occupants and regain the possession of the legitimate owner. In the Netherlands, in France, in England, in Germany, in Italy, in Denmark, the period of time that goes from the denunciation to the recovery of possession is very short, and there we should look at each other. Only in this way will we effectively guarantee the protection of a right which is central to our system and whose treatment too often is the subject of an approach which would deserve some more nuance and which I repeat to you the few seconds that I have left. The right to property is a right, of course, subject to public utility, subject to limitations, but such limitations must always and in any case be legal. When it is done from outside the law happens what we have: truly unfair situations, delays and harms for neighborhoods and owners. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u137	Thank you very much. I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Development.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u138	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, first of all, I would like to move you, as it could not be otherwise, that I agree substantially with what I have just heard. There is no doubt that the State must respond and ensure prompt judicial protection in order to restore citizens to their rights. I share the concern that the honourable Member has just expressed. As a sign of that concern, let me begin by transferring our firm commitment to the defense of private property. The demonstration that this commitment is true is that we have just submitted a non-law proposal to the Promotion Commission that was adopted in June of this year, adding the votes in favour of the Citizens and Socialist groups and the abstention of Republican Left, precisely to make that defense of the protection of private property compatible with the needs of the most vulnerable groups. On the other hand, and as you mentioned, we have also voted in favour of the proposed law submitted by the Joint Group to amend the Civil Prosecution Act to regulate a specific procedure for ensuring the possession of dwellings owned by natural persons and to ensure that social entities and public administrations also have the availability of dwellings intended for social rental. Also as a sign of concern for this defence of private property, when other administrations have raised rules that violated constitutional property law, as set out in article 33 of the Spanish Constitution, we have appealed against them from the Government, and I believe that this is an important issue because it has sometimes been mixed with the other case that his lordship has mentioned. As you yourself have just said, there are two very different cases and it is good that they do not mix: on the one hand, the movement of anti-system tendencies or that of those who propose occupation as a way of obtaining housing so that in both cases they make use of housing against their legitimate owner, and the second of the cases - quite different - that of occupations out of necessity, that is, of those families who have been left without anything and who need housing in order to survive; unfortunately, this second case has, of course, been more customary than it should be in the economic context that we have experienced in recent years. But in the first instance, as you have rightly pointed out, it is anti-system activist movements that do not respect the right to housing and take advantage of it for their own benefit. Certainly, in the case of citizens with problems of social exclusion, the State and the different administrations, the society in general, must provide them with the necessary assistance to return to them what is theirs and to include them as soon as possible in a situation of social normality, that is, decent work and housing in which they can develop their personal and family life. I will focus with a little more detail on the solutions and tools available today and in the future to curb these occupations. Generally speaking, in view of such a phenomenon, it is good to recall that the citizens concerned can go to the criminal court; this is an articulated fact, often under article 245.2 and consistent with the Criminal Code, as a crime of usurpation. On the other hand, and as an alternative, there is another way, the civil jurisdiction, in which there are options covered by the Civil Code and the Civil Prosecution Act itself, although it is true that all of them present - I think you have also made some indication in this regard - some limitation or problem of application; indeed, the offence of illegal occupation of a property, dwelling or building that is not inhabited without violence or intimidation is provided for in article 245.2 of the Criminal Code with a penalty of three to six months' fine. It is a fine that has not been amended since the entry into force of the 1995 Criminal Code. However, with the reform carried out in 2015, it became a less serious offence to be a minor one. As a result, and although it is not really up to me as Minister of Development to say so, it is clear to me that there is a will on the part of the Ministry of Justice, of the Government itself in the final analysis, to adapt the necessary precautionary measures and to speed up the procedure to the maximum extent possible. You mentioned those difficulties that existed in relation to the slowness of the procedures. I would like to say that there are at least two essential problems at the moment: the first is the technical difficulty of agreeing as a precautionary measure the immediate eviction of housing. To solve this problem, we would have to amend article 13 of the Criminal Procedure Act to expressly provide for immediate eviction as a precautionary measure, and we would also have to amend the Criminal Code in its article 13.4 in order to consider as less serious crimes those who for the extension of their sentence can be considered simultaneously less serious and light. Secondly, there is the delay that sometimes occurs in the processing of procedures. What is desirable is the possibility of regulating a quick trial for the same when it can be expected that the instruction will be simple. In addition to these two points, one could begin to analyse the desirability of increasing the penalty for this crime, although in principle - you have commented on some cases as well - our Criminal Code, from our point of view, already offers sufficient protection against these more serious cases, among which are those involving an organized group, an offence of belonging to a criminal group, for example, or those where a certain amount of money is required to recover the housing, a coercion, given that the corresponding competition figures of crime would apply. But these matters, of course, we are willing to talk about. On the other hand, she mentioned the recommendations of the Ombudsman which were formulated very recently in April, mainly in two respects: on the one hand, to take into account the conclusions of the Office of the Attorney-General in order to respond to the existence of various types of crimes of usurpation of immovable property - which was among the first issues raised by the Ombudsman - and, on the other hand, to provide for appropriate channels for the adoption of precautionary measures to restore to the owner of the property the urgent possession and enjoyment of the property through the processing of a speedy judicial procedure, something to which I referred earlier. He assures, however, and in this I disagree, that they were rejected. That is not the case; the recommendations were not only not rejected, but the Ministry of Justice informed the Ombudsman that, obviously, in the event of a possible reform of the Criminal Code, we would of course take these recommendations into account in order to improve the treatment of the crime of usurpation. On the other hand, although I have just mentioned that the two types of occupation must be distinguished, I would also like to highlight the part of the occupation that concerns people with economic problems. Indeed, here we agree that the important thing is to facilitate access to decent housing, mortgage protection and coordination with social services. Regarding the first point, that of housing, as his lordship also knows, we have the State Housing Plan; in the years 2013-2016 a plan was established, which has been extended in 2017, which encourages the rental and rehabilitation of buildings and housing in urban plots. A plan that, by the way, has been improved with the new drafting of the housing plan that is already being processed 2018-2021, which we expect to be in force at the beginning of next year. In any case, it is only during the period covered by the previous plan that we can talk about more than 100 000 families who have received rental aid and 70 000 families who continue to receive aid for the subsidisation of mortgage loans for the purchase of sheltered housing. With regard to mortgage protection, since 2012, we have taken steps to address the vulnerability situation affecting many families as a result of the crisis itself. It is true that in this first quarter of 2017 there has been a slight increase in the number of launches, in particular by 2.2%; but, from the analysis made by the Government, we really think that it is due rather to the procedures derived from the Urban Leases Act, which is not strictly linked to the occupations we are dealing with today, because we think that for this same period, for the first quarter of 2017, mortgage executions have dropped by 26.2%. The protection of the mortgage debtor has been a constant concern and the action of the public authorities has focused precisely on those debtors without resources who were going through situations of special weakness. I don't have time to formulate all the royal decree-laws and the contents of them that have been put into effect since 2012. I do want to say that in the same year a new royal decree-law has been established which has broadened the scope of the protection measures for these groups, which has expanded, as I have also personally moved to the Committee on Development, in three additional years the implementation of the launch suspension and which has established rental mechanisms in favour of the debtors executed on the buildings whose launch is subject to the suspension. On the other hand, I would also like to mention that there is coordination with social services and this is working well. There are agreements signed with the General Council of the Judiciary, as is the case with the Government of Aragon or with the Basque Government, i.e. coordination with the judicial authority and the corresponding Governments. Finally, I would like to mention the anti-system movements themselves, it is the third scenario in which competences fall more on the side of the Ministry of the Interior, that is, occupation as a way of obtaining housing. I would like to point out at this point that the different national and local police forces have taken steps to create special units, as has happened, for example, here in Madrid since April 2016, where a coordinator of the National Police Corps is responsible for solving the problems of illegal occupations that the capital is giving and that affect some four hundred houses, enabling, for example, a free telephone, a mail, etc., with a job that tries to fight against illegal occupations and against the mafias who then rent these floors. There are also other examples in Spanish territory. These are some of the main measures, but ultimately I believe that there are issues that can be improved and there is sufficient capacity in this plenary to address some within the framework of the political agreement that exists in the recently agreed process, by putting in place the means to solve existing problems and prevent some of these issues from happening in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u140	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, thank you for your answer, which is obviously a thoughtful and hard-working answer and I thank you for that. I would like to stress that this urgent inquiry, by its nature, is addressed to the entire Government. Therefore, the whole part of my speech that refers to criminal matters, the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act, I know that it does not enter your department but it does enter into what we want to pass on to you and the urgency with which we want to pass it on to the Government as a whole. But in your particular department you can do a lot and I'm sure that when it comes to alleviating vulnerability situations your department is critical. I welcome the coincidence in the general view of the problem, but sometimes we discuss and debate on issues, we come to the conclusion that we share the vision, but the problem continues to exist, spends time and continues to exist, and it happens that with the occupation there is already a real social alarm; there is a real concern and social alarm and there are neighborhoods where, I insist, social peace is deteriorated. There's despair in some places. So from that coincident overview the desirable would be for us to move on to coincident concrete actions. You have resorted to rules that came from other laws, you have said, that clashed with article 33 of the Constitution. You have told me that the State Housing Plan is producing results, I do not doubt it, you have more information about it, and what is desirable is that it gives so many results that we reach a point where vulnerability does not exist and that, provided that there is an occupation case, it is clear that this case is a criminal matter, without any justification, that it does not deserve specific attention, since all those situations of vulnerability are covered. But it seems to me that we are still far from that situation. I would like to devote the few minutes left - I would like to know whether you agree or not because it is not clear to me - to insist on something that has to do specifically with your department: to make the requirements more flexible so that the most vulnerable debtors can cancel their debts. I am aware that some of that has been done in previous years, but the problem continues to exist. Despite the facilities that may have been provided, there are still cases that are not covered. Does your department, your Government, intend to seek solutions that will make it even more flexible for vulnerable people, who are debtors, to be able to cancel their debts? Does your department have a fluid communication relationship with municipal services to coordinate social care for those who are negatively affected by housing occupation? Is it willing, willing, willing, willing, or not in agreement with the possibility that the Social Housing Fund will become definitive, as we propose to you? Perhaps it is not a good idea and you have arguments to explain why it is not, but we believe it is and we deserve the Government to explain to us how it sees it and what it intends to do. And, please, let us take advantage of the facilities of the information society. There is a bureaucratic labyrinth in Spain, there are countless initiatives that I am sure would be infinitely more efficient if they were to unite, structure, articulate and systematize in a housing aid portal. Is the government willing and willing to do something like this? Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u141	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u142	I don't know if I'll have enough time to answer all the questions you just asked me. With regard to the first, although not strictly dependent on the Ministry of Development, I would like to recall that in 2012 a royal decree-law was adopted that suspended the releases on habitual housing of particularly vulnerable groups and that in 2013 this immediate suspension was maintained for a period of two years from the evictions of families who were in a situation of special risk of exclusion, measures to strengthen protection precisely for mortgage debtors, debt restructuring and social rent that maintained the immediate suspension. These are direct measures to promote what you have just mentioned. And in 2017 a request has been made at the Sectoral Housing Conference by the Ministry of Development in collaboration with other ministries and the implementation of the launch suspension has been extended in three years, so that facilities are provided to be able to meet these debts. With regard to the social measures he has mentioned, let me mention some of those covered by the new state plan, which has had a fruitful process of political, institutional and social participation. First, persons who are in a situation of eviction from their habitual home are treated with a specific rental programme. Work is also under way with the Sareb and the financial institutions for the provision of housing, resulting in aid that is largely determined by what the social services of the municipalities and the autonomous communities say. Of course you are counting on the social services of the different administrations! Secondly, the improvement of rental aid will also be promoted, making it easier to manage the autonomous communities themselves, which had requested, for example, extensions of the three-year period for granting the aid or to be able to make payments in a much faster way and we are trying to meet those requests. There is a programme to promote the rental housing stock - I do not go too far in this - there is a specific programme for young people and their access to the enjoyment of rented housing or by means of assistance in the purchase of housing and there is also a specific programme for older people through the promotion of housing with common services and facilities. In other words, programmes that have a clear social character and that seek to address situations of greatest vulnerability, especially those in which some problem associated with eviction can be given. Finally, I would like to mention - because you mentioned it in the first intervention, I did not mention it - the need to amend the Criminal Procedure Act so that the legitimate owners of a house can recover the same before collectives known as okupas within the phenomenon of occupation. It is true that this issue, precisely because the case that causes this situation may be due to the social need or to the willingness of certain people to take private ownership of others in a lucrative way, must be made a prior study, taken into account of the rights at stake. Because it must be borne in mind that the legislator has, in recent years, made an important effort to suspend the launches of those persons in a situation or with mortgage execution procedures. Then, it is important not to proceed to promote a regulation of this matter without having that detailed study of the possible implications, it is not going to be that with the ways to solve these problems we will generate others. As you have also mentioned - I believe - a case of occupation of public land, I would like to remind you that in all that has to do with real estate and public property, Law 33/2003 allows a set of prerogatives for the administration to act in relation to such real estate, including, for example, that of recovering possession of such property without having to go to civil jurisdiction. There are also procedures in the case of the occupation of public spaces and public goods that ensure that such time delays do not occur in the private case. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u143	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United States of America may, in common, in Marea, on the guarantee of informational independence in RTVE. [[File number 172/000057]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u144	We turn to the urgent inquiry of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the guarantee of information independence in Spanish Radiotelevision. Mrs. Vera Ruiz-Herrera has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Montoro, I begin by thanking you for taking charge of this inquiry; sincerely, with all the parliamentary respect I have of course, I do not understand why it is the Minister of Finance who comes to answer an urgent call for independence on Spanish Radiotelevision. [[The Lord]] Yours would have been to be the country's vice president, as it is your competence, but I suppose you'll be busy burning firewood in Catalonia on behalf of the Democrats, as I said before. [[Applauds]] I thank you - I insist - for taking over. The truth is that we would have liked not to have to go out today to defend the independence of Spanish Broadcasting because, as you know, very recently - only three months ago - we approved in this Congress, through an agreement that you also signed, a reform of the 2012 law to reverse the cacicada you did - by calling things by your name - to name the president of Spanish Broadcasting without parliamentary consensus, taking advantage of his absolute majority and, of course, without doing any kind of negotiation with the workers and the workers of the house. Since you in the Senate are putting that agreement at risk, and we will see if the PSOE too - we hope not - and the latest news shows how it is systematically being violated, since that agreement was approved, the independence of Spanish Broadcasting, we are obliged to remind you as opposition that it is a public service that we pay among all and among all, the three hundred and fifty that we are here and all the people that are in their homes, and that therefore belongs to the people and not to this government to make cheap, profitable propaganda and a partisan use of what is of all and of all. I say that we would have liked not to have to, but because of the news and the countless reports - we have been talking only for three months, since the summer - of the information council, which, as you know, is the independent body that has to ensure independence, compliance with article 20 of the Constitution and the Spanish Broadcasting Information Statute, which have sent us to the Control Commission, where they have asked systematically to their leadership and the Government to denounce bad practices and have not been answered, we are obliged to do so. Yesterday I was watching videos of this same legislature in which you were replying to a socialist Member on this, telling him that the government cannot get involved in Spanish Radio Television to guarantee independence and that it also had to do with a budgetary issue. Complying with an ethical code has nothing to do with budgets - I am moving ahead with what you are sure to tell me - and of course it has to do with the election of this government. As I was saying, with that law you changed it, first to name Echenique, who also had to resign because there was not enough money to carry out the management of Spanish Broadcasting, and then put Sánchez. I am always obliged to say this, because I believe it is of justice, that you have put a finger on a person whose only merit in his résumé is that of having privatized, outsourced, and making an ERE that affected eight hundred people in Telemadrid, which thus became the worst television in Europe. That was his merit and what led him to direct Spanish Radiotelevision today. [[Applauds]] In addition, he is a person - having passed the law in Congress, I insist - who in the last Control Commission we did to him in the Senate openly said not only that he votes for the People's Party, that he can vote for anyone who wants to while he is clear that he manages something that is of all, but also that he declared himself apostolic, Romanic and Catholic, and that he therefore did not rebroadcast, for example, the International Day of Pride, which was based in Madrid, when it was rebroadcast on all international public televisions, on all public televisions. [[Rumors]] It must be that the friends of HazteOir called him to tell him that the boys have penis, that the girls have vulva and that everything that comes out of it doesn't have to be related to Spanish Radio. That was a shame and that is happening since we passed - I insist - the law and since you signed that agreement. I insist that reports, reports and reports have come, and I will begin to detail them one by one to see if you can give me explanations. Mr Montoro, I'm going to ask you in a very direct way if you have plans to put in Genoa 13 an office to the director of Spanish Radio Television news. There is clear evidence that there have been leaks directly from Moncloa to the direction of the Spanish Radiotelevision news reports that the deputy director of the news reports, Carmen Sastre, passed to an editor an argumentary of the People's Party to be based on it and thus retransmit, in textual words, Mariano Rajoy's Bochonny statement at the National Audience as a witness for the corruption of his party. There is such evidence of this as that the writer herself - the argumentary of the mail did not put that it was an argumentary of the PP - needed an investigation as exhaustive as putting in Google the text of the news and, oh surprise!, the same format, the same underlined, the same letter and the same content, and, as a liar is caught before, the writer - what a shame, Mr Montoro! - had to accept his right not to sign the piece. So, I ask you, are you going to put an office directly in Genoa? [[Applauds]] I keep going, and I'm not leaving that day. Do you consider - thus it is dedicated to the Treasury, by common sense - that this event, that the president of the country has to go to declare the National Court as witness for illegal corruption of his party, is not news? All the television stations of all the private channels opened with this news, but it is that they also opened all the front pages of the international ones, it is that they opened the public of the international ones!, while it seems that in Spanish Television they considered that there were much more interesting contents that day than the fact that the president of the government had to go to declare and that information was not retransmitted. I'm going further. At the same door there was a citizen protest, of people who have had to eat, like you, the Gürtel - come for the pocket, come for the pocket - while they have had to put the weight of the crisis on their shoulders. It was a legitimate citizen protest and the correspondent who was there told it and put it in her play Oh, surprise, when that writer puts on the TV and sees the piece that has been cut, curiously, the part of the citizen protests! Do you know what this is called - is that I'm talking about July 26th, when the law was passed -? This is called manipulation, it is called censorship and it is called propaganda use of public television. [[Applauds]] But I'm going to get a little more technical because you're dedicated to the Treasury and I'm a journalist and I'm a member of the Information Statute. This is a violation of article 8, which I will literally read to you: 'The audiovisual information professionals have a duty to provide the society with information of public relevance with truth, objectivity, impartiality and respect for the values enshrined in the Law on Radio and Television of State Ownership'. And in this case the most serious thing is that the professionals did fulfill their duty and it was the managers, their friends, who named them to their finger - and hence you have a lot to do with all this - who applied the scissors or put a gag on them, as they try to do with all of us, as they are doing in Catalonia and with everything they don't like. We will continue rewinding because, I insist, I limit myself to the summer, to more cases of these because there are sixty reports, sixty reports!, made by the information board since then. Javier Arenas, Ángel Acebes, Rodrigo Rato and Jaime Mayor Oreja declare before the courts for the Gürtel case, for the illegal corruption of their party. I'm not talking about fulanito or menganito, I'm talking about former senior officials with public responsibilities when these cases of illegal party financing occurred. You think it wasn't news, Mr. Montoro? Because on Spanish Television the editorial board thought it wasn't. More scandals. We all know that the Ministry of Justice serves the same purpose as it is serving Spanish Radio Television, which is to cover up its corrupt. Do you think it is normal that when there was a whole debate in this society, in Parliament, in the street, everywhere, when it was being called into question, and we continue to do so, the lack of independence in justice because of a minister who has been reprobated, that that was not news either to be broadcast on Spanish Radio Television? Do you really believe that? More scandals. I do not know whether you are aware - and a change of subject - that the spokespersons of the rest of the parliamentary groups and political formations are responsible for something that is called a screen quota, which is not for sucking the camera - something that we are also highly accused of - is because of something as simple as promoting plurality and promoting democracy. I'm going to put in a very funny case looking at the Socialist Party. Socialist Party Primary Day. Radiotelevision Española has prepared a special to broadcast live who was going to be the secretary general of the Socialist Party, I guess thinking I was going to win Susana Díaz. He won Pedro Sánchez, a jar of cold water. Do you know what Spanish Television did? Dismiss the special! [[Laughter and applause]] He canceled the special, but it's that he canceled it to issue Masterchef, which I like, but I don't know if Miri and Jorge's crotch between stoves are more important than who was going to be the secretary general of the Socialist Party, I say. More about censorship and informational silence. United We can table a motion of censure and that night there's a debate at night in 24 hours. Who's going? Representatives of all political formations. Who aren't you inviting? Oh, by chance! The United We Can. We leave on Monday, Diada Day, where there was a three-hour debate in Spanish Radio Television during the event. Was there any representative, any independent leader giving his version of what's going on in Catalonia? Has any Catalan independence appeared in the last year by Spanish Radiotelevision? What's the Spanish people's version of watching Spanish Radio and Television pay their taxes? [[Applauds]] What you want, what you want. And I'm going on. Now I'm going to change the subject because I like this subject very much. I'm going to go to the euphemism level. Do you know what they call dictator Francisco Franco in Spanish Radiotelevision? Chief. Today he's called a caudillo. Do you know what is called the illegal financing or the B-box of your party? They call it unofficial accounting. [[Laughter]] Do you know how the appearance of Cristina Cifuentes is described in Spanish Television to declare also for corruption in the Community of Madrid? Commitment to honesty. [[Applauds]] If this is not manipulation, Mr. Montoro, let some of your gods come down and see him. Now I'm going to move on to the shift that I like even more, which is that of the template movements and that of the purges. You guys are always pulling us out and we're gonna talk about the real purges. What if you're a director of Spanish Television in a territorial center and you get caught in a recording talking about how you manipulate to benefit the People's Party? Let them climb you up. That happened to the director of Spanish Television in Murcia. I'm done, Mr. President, it's my last point. He said textually in the recording: The guidelines frame them I, absolutely I give the information. Now, the information I give it as I want to give it, all the school people at the moment are disciplined, it has cost me my thing because they make me bet out of here. But that's exactly why, because they're making me a bastard, now I'm a bastard and more than I'm gonna be. You think he quit? Did they kick him out? No, Mr. Montoro, he was promoted and put in a position of responsibility two weeks ago in 24 hours. But what if you're editor of the only television station that hasn't been denounced for manipulation, the only one that's dared inside Spanish Television to take out Fernández Díaz's audios trying to build political evidence against political opponents, in this case against Catalans? What if you follow a little journalistic ethics within Spanish Radiotelevision? Let them stop you, take you away from responsibility and relegate you to where you don't bother. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u146	Mrs. Vera, you have to finish up.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u147	And that happened to the editor of The 2 News last week. But, oh by chance! The Director of Information, Mr Gundín, has answered the questions of the Information Councils there. You know what he says? That it is not a stoppage for political issues, that it is to rejuvenate the staff. Of course, to rejuvenate the staff must also be that they have put Carlos Herrera to present a political debate. [[Laughter and applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u148	Mrs. Vera, your time is up. Finish it.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u149	Because as everyone knows it is the example in the Cope of modernity, vitality and youth. Don't fool us. I've got to get this over with. I had a lot more to tell you, Mr. Montoro. I have given you very concrete examples, Mr Montoro, I insist, since the law was passed in June. Please do what the vice president hasn't been able to do and answer me. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-wing Party (Christian Democrats) - ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u150	I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, I must begin my reply to this question by recalling that it is not the Government's job to guarantee information independence on Spanish Radio Television. And it is not, precisely, out of respect for that independence that is contained in the Spanish Constitution and guaranteed by the laws. It is not the Government that exercises control over the performance of Spanish Radio-television but the Parliament, as your honor has acknowledged at the outset. It is Parliament, and that is why Congress and the Senate have a joint committee that carries out this work and it is up to them to do this task that they have done here today by asking the Government - I insist - on a matter that is not the subject of government action. It is also true that this is not the first time I have answered a question or question like this - I don't know how many I have - perhaps because of the size of the government itself and because economic and financial control does depend on the Ministry of Finance - in the 10th Legislature, Ministry of Finance and Public Administration and in the current Ministry of Finance and Public Service. But that, being responsible for the economic management of a public service, for the budget contribution, in no way implies any intervention in the contents of Spanish Radiotelevision because frankly I do not understand or how that can be done, how it can affect the independence of professionals - who are the templates - who make up that Spanish Radiotelevision. Radiotélévision Española is a public service and, as such, the Government has retained and promoted it, has improved it, after a previous government, a socialist government, took away the main source of funding, advertising, and from there composed a television picture in Spain different from what existed before 2004. Go ahead that a public service has the contents of objectivity and impartiality that are characteristic of that public service, as well as respect for the professionals, who every day work in that public service. The Government is supporting that work and respecting its approach and independence. That being said in global, general terms, we must insist on this because they are questions of principle, but since the political group to which your lordship represents has said so, it is good to remind you of the importance of the impartiality of the media in our country because you are critical of these media, you make lists of media, you make lists of journalists who understand that they are characterized by objectivity - as your political group understands it - or you are the object of informational biases that the leader of your political group, Mr. Iglesias, decides when it turns out that he has his own television programme. Is this the model that aims to extend to the whole of Spain, to the public services of Spain? Maybe there's a lot of objectivity in his program, where he presents and directs. I have never presented or directed a television programme, therefore I confess an absolute layman, it is not that it is complete, I confess an absolute layman, I am unknown, but his television programmes are not characterized precisely by objectivity, impartiality and by representing the plurality of Spanish society. [[Laughter]] It is not precisely the Adalids, with which you as a political group, defending these criteria of objectivity, the truth is that you leave a great deal to be desired. He also adds his lordship in his words that he is a journalist. It respects the independence of journalists, it respects professionalism, it respects the personal freedom of those who work in this public service and those who work in other areas which, being their private funding, are public service. Because the media in a modern society are a public service without which there would be neither democracy nor confrontation of views. That's why authoritarian regimes - those that some of you support and have intellectually advised - reduce media spaces, that's why they promote the closure of private media, because they don't like the contrast of ideas, because they don't understand that these ideas and that contrast should exist in a society. And that concept of public service must be preserved in terms of the provision of informational and media content that Radiotelevision Española does. When there was an electoral process, what happened? That the opposition has turned to the Central Electoral Board to denounce certain manipulations. Has this body of objective control of our electoral processes ever failed to recognize that these allegations or accusations had content? It has not been so, a complaint has never prospered. Critics are part of the very content of politics and we will not deny them. In that sense, it is normal for there to be a degree of criticism, but I want to tell you that Spanish Radio Television news has been a leading audience for ten months and its screen share has been the highest since May 2012. That means that there is a very important part of the Spanish population that comes to information through the contents that are being offered to it and without a doubt that also means that there are quality contents that are not subject to manipulation as your lordship has intended here. I insist that the Government is convinced that Spain needs a public television that serves the general interest and offers a quality, truthful and independent public service. We are convinced that this role is performed by Spanish Broadcasting under the direction of its professionals, the supervision of its board of directors and the control exercised by Parliament within the framework of the Constitution and the laws. I also told him that we can all have a more or less subjective view of the contents and what that public service should be, but that is the object of the approach, the contrast and the political debate that we must do without any vision of exaggeration. The truth is that the impartiality of his words has been questioned. It has been very eloquent and its political group always receives these kinds of interventions with great excitement. However, in view of the problems that Spain has, the uproar about the figures that you have described in this rostrum is not understood. In the face of the major issues before us today, the fact that there is a certain contract or there is no contract causes a stir in your group which certainly does not correspond to the political and social reality or the economic needs that Spain continues to have. But be glad that you understand that you have to be excited. Have fun as you like, but frankly it did not seem like an intervention worthy of standing up. There are problems in Spain at this time that you, especially Mr Iglesias, far from coming to compensate and weigh them, what you are doing is exacerbating them; as in that intervention you did in Barcelona that is collected by all public and private televisions - all - and that all you really do is disrupt the political landscape rather than compensate or balance it. I'm done. As you said yourself, honourable Member, there is already a change in Spanish Radio Television. There is a very important agreement between the political groups in this House and the Government is behind that agreement. It is the agreement of the pact and consensus and it is the result of dialogue. Therefore, a new law is already in place that will regulate the activities of Spanish Radio and Television and will give this Parliament more capacity so that both in the appointment of the members of the council and in the appointment of the management there is as much political agreement as possible. That is already under way, it has been supported by political groups and supported by the Government. What, then, can the Government answer? For we already have a new regulation and we continue to trust that it is a door that opens the future to guarantee not only the objectivity of Spanish Radiotelevision - which has it - but also that it is advancing in terms of quality and also the future of its workers, of the public employees who are there offering every day the best of themselves. In this sense, I understand that the economic-financial model and the business model, such as that of communication, are subject to great tensions coming from our world and from the very dynamic and very competitive technological change that we are experiencing, and in this area this Parliament must have a positive stake in order to ensure the survival of the publicly funded media, which are so important in the balance of content supply in any developed society. We all hope that we can continue along the lines of major political agreements in the definition of the future of Spanish Broadcasting. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u152	Thank you very much, Minister. The next item is Mrs Vera Ruiz-Herrera.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr Montoro, for your kind dedication to my speech. I have come very prepared, regardless of whether you or the Vice-President answered me. I already knew the arguments that I was going to give not to say anything and not to answer, but to none of me, to none of my parliamentary group and to none of the people who, as I say, pay Spanish Radio Television. [[Applauds]] The Tuerka. [[Shows a folio in which you read: La Tuerka]] That's right. Hispan TV. [[Shows a sheet reading: Hispan TV]] That's right. You want to control the media. [[Shows a folio in which you read: You want to control the media]] That's right. Freedom of expression. [[Shows a folio in which you read: Freedom of expression]] That's right. And Venezuela. [[Shows a folio in which you read: Venezuela]] I thought you were going to say Venezuela and you called it a regime. Having said that, Mr Montoro, it is clear once again that what you are doing is using your ministry, the Ministry of Finance, as the Minister of Justice does with the Ministry of Justice, to deny people and not to talk about what they do not want to talk about, because they are covering up the corrupt. They're using public institutions to cover up the corrupt. A few days ago I listened to Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría who said the following about what happened in the Parliament of Catalonia: I have not spent any more democratic shame in my entire political life. I'm going to bring him to the field, because we've come to talk about Spanish Radio Television. With his answer he has just shown that he has no idea what independence is or a journalistic code of ethics. Yes, I am a journalist and have worked on public television with Sánchez, the current president of Spanish Broadcasting, who directed and destroyed Telemadrid's news; there I learned to do journalism and learned what I didn't want to be in the damn life. Having said that, let us go to democratic shame, according to the words of the country's own vice-president. Democratic shame is all workers feel every time they have to be forced not to sign a piece because they are forcing them to manipulate and lie to make a political campaign for you. [[Applauds]] That's democratic shame. Stop talking to me about Rome, stop talking to me about Iran and Venezuela. Talk about what you need to talk about. Democratic shame - I'm going to go one point beyond what we've been talking about before - is that you use public television - really! - to interview for more than an hour a rapist who just got out of jail and put him as an excellent person; an infamous chatter to defend a rapist and thus violate the rights of all women. What is a democratic shame, Mr Montoro, is that you use public television to send racist messages against Muslims, against the Chinese community and against gypsies. These groups that I have just appointed have had to send a letter to the Information Council and the Government itself. What is a democratic shame is that you pass from Moncloa the PP's argument to a Spanish Television journalist. What is a democratic shame, Mr Montoro, is that they cut off an intervention by Pablo Iglesias to talk about the Tomatina. What is a democratic shame is that every time a representative of the United States comes out, we can talk on public television, even if it's how badly you manage public money, whether with images of Venezuela behind it. That's democratic shame, Mr Montoro. You want to talk about private media? Because he mentioned them talking about intervention, about what we like to control. I will tell you who are the only two people who control the private media in this country: you and Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría. And you know how they do it? With something called institutional advertising, in which you invest 70 million euros of the General Budgets of the State. [[Applauds]] I'll explain to you what institutional advertising is. It is to give money to the private media, be it El País, be it El Mundo, be it whoever it is, be it any television or any radio, in exchange for you to pull propaganda from you, and that costs us all Spanish and all Spanish €70 million only in 2017. Who's going to talk, which media director is going to dare to point out your corruption if you're going to take away the money if you do? I do not say that, the Vice-President said that at a press conference after a Council of Ministers when the Government was in office and we were going to other elections. Do you know what he told the journalists? He said to them: This is very much in the interest of their bosses; if there is no government, if we do not approve the general budgets, the publicity plan will not be able to move forward and here someone will be badly harmed. Do you know what that's called, Mr. Montoro? Singing and political pressure to journalists so that, on the basis of stalwarts, with everyone's money, they say what you want them to say. [[Applauds]] If you'll allow me, I'll talk again about what we've come here to talk about, which is about the television and the public radio that we pay among all of us and among all of us. I urge you, I have appointed you very specific cases and I would like to know your opinion because, precisely because I am a journalist, I see the right to information for citizens. You have appointed a director of information to a person like Somoano, whose only merit was, when he was director of information, to make a thesis entitled 'Communication strategies for the triumph of the PP in the upcoming general elections'. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u154	Mrs. Vera, you have to conclude. You've exceeded your time. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u155	If you have nothing to do with it and you can't do anything real to guarantee the independence of Spanish Broadcasting, then, Minister, you don't know what you're talking about. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-wing Party (Christian Democrats) - ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u156	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vera. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Finance and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u157	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that the whole of Spanish society is very aware that anyone who manipulates the media is a server! That is palpable, palmarious and well known!, as his lordship has said. I no longer know the dramatic things that one has to listen to in this House to support an argument about what his concept of manipulation represents. But the most expressive of this interpellation has been that you, your bad conscience, the bad conscience of your group, bring it in folios. Okay, you have it well written, but that's what you'll have to write in the history of Podemos. That sequence of leaflets you have taught is the history of your group: the television financed from such a site, because it says it the title of the television, and so a continuity of leaflets until you end up with a concrete Latin American country. It is the whole sequence; it brings it written and raises it to show it. He says: we knew we were going through it. But it is dangerous one of those you have taught there in the middle; between a TV financed in a certain way and freedom of expression, which is absent in a certain Latin American country. That sequence you've shown is very risky and very dangerous, and you've done it with those leaflets successively. That, what is it? The history of Podemos? But has it not been in that bill that we are jointly developing all the political groups in this House to appoint television directors, television boards? Aren't they in that renovation? [[Rumors]] What always happens to your political group is that you intervene with a tone - each one has his own, of course, with all freedom and also with the utmost respect - and it doesn't matter what you say, because you brag to each other, get excited, hug, kiss, do everything to stimulate yourself. [[Risa.-Rumores.-A lady MP: We're talking Spanish Television!]] They do everything to stimulate themselves, to free themselves, and that's okay...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u158	Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u159	I do not understand modern political communication techniques, which Mr. Iglesias is certainly introducing to our country. [[Rumors]] The others take note; they take us a little older to learn quickly, but we take note of all these techniques. That's fine, but then they're participating in that bill, they're participating in the contents. [[Rumors]] Yes, they're participating. That is what happens to them with the votes in this House: they make a criticism - in their eyes - fierce, really disembodied, they hug again after making that criticism, but then they vote yes. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] But the political coherence where do you have it? Where are they? Why do they bring an inquiry of this nature when this House is already working on a political agreement of that magnitude and magnitude? [[Mrs Vera Ruiz-Herrera utters words that are not perceived]] I have not understood it and perhaps I understand it in the motion resulting from the inquiry, which I imagine will also be of high intellectual content, based on the examples it has revealed. [[Rumors]] But we're gonna be practical, we're gonna get to work together, like I said. It is true that, in terms of the media, there is an economic crisis, that is true, not only in Spain, it is a global phenomenon, and it is true that the future of the public media must also be assured and committed to that new media structure that is being defined in the world. We are going to work in this legislature by understanding, dialogue and agreeing on the contents of those laws that ensure - I insist - not only the quality, which is already much, but the objective content itself and the future of the workers of the public communication bodies. I understand that that is the positive, the correct, the relevant and even the urgent, which this House must address, Your Honor; the rest I leave to its political consumption and to its public consumption, of course. I insist that we are working, it seems to me that we are moving forward in terms of coincidence and we must seize the great opportunity that we have all been able to create. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u160	Thank you very much, Minister. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON MEASURES TO ENCOURAGE SALARY RECOVERY SUBJECT TO A BETTER DISTRIBUTION OF THE INCOME. [[File number 172/000059]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u161	The next item is the urgent debate by the Socialist Group on measures to promote a wage recovery involving a fairer distribution of income. For your defence, Mr. Simancas Simancas has the floor. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u162	Madam President, Minister, with this initiative my group intends to question a growth model, the growth model of your Government which causes increasing job insecurity and a significant fall in the wages of the most humble workers and, consequently, an increase in inequality and poverty in broad sections of the Spanish population. I want to underline this. We are talking about its growth model; economic model at a growth stage, because we are all aware that, unfortunately, in the stages of decline, in the stages of economic recession, there is a loss of employment, a fall in wages, an increase in poverty and an increase in inequality. Our criticism, our complaint, Madam Minister, is that your economic model, your employment policy leads to a chronisation of these problems. The macroeconomic crisis is passing, the recession is lagging behind, the gross domestic product is growing at three and a half percent, but job insecurity is maintained, garbage contracts are maintained, and inequality and poverty are growing in this country; not only are they not being corrected, but they are growing in stages of economic growth. That is why we denounce that this recovery sold to us by the People's Party Government is a purely statistical recovery, a false recovery, an unjust recovery. That is why we insist that there will be no fair recovery until the majority of the Spanish population does not enjoy good jobs and decent wages, until the benefits of this recovery reach the entire population, ending or reducing at least significantly the rates of precariousness, inequality and poverty. How do they do that, as they achieve in the People's Party government that job insecurity, falling wages, rates of inequality and poverty are maintained and even intensified at an economic recovery stage by increasing above 3% of GDP? Through a deliberate policy strategy that is implemented through two channels. On the one hand, you are pushing for a labour reform that leads companies to seek competitiveness gains in the easiest and most unfair way: precarious contracts and the fall in wages. This is the model of competitiveness that you drive in government. And, on the other hand, you practice the fiscal policy that economists call reverse redistribution: with one hand you raise indirect taxes, lower direct taxes to higher incomes, promote tax amnesties to large fraudsters, and with another hand you lower welfare state benefits, reduce the percentage of social spending on gross domestic product, and therefore drain resources from lower incomes to higher incomes. This is your policy; so you manage to maintain and intensify the problems of inequality and poverty even in stages of economic growth, with wage devaluation, with social devaluation. That is why we are constantly telling you, Mrs Báñez, that you are financing your false recovery, your statistical recovery, your unjust recovery with suffering, with the impoverishment of millions of workers. There are the consequences: an unfair distribution of national income. Its policies have made it possible to drain labour income into capital income, more than EUR 40 billion of money that should have been in workers' wages has ended, as a result of its policies in this crisis and during the recovery, in capital income; EUR 44 billion that have served not to improve wages but to improve business profits and dividend-sharing in some companies. An unfair distribution of national income, an unfair distribution of productivity, too, because productivity has grown in these times of crisis as always, but not because more has been invested in technology, innovation, worker training, is that we are producing virtually the same with 2 million fewer workers. Productivity has grown by more than 12% since the start of the crisis, but who has benefited from this increase in productivity? Not wages, which have grown almost as an average below 1%, but again capital income. The most humble wages fall; the evolution of wages is an evolution absolutely inequality, there is the Gini wage index. During the crisis, the wages of 10% of the most humble workers fell by 25%, but when the crisis ended, on the path of recovery, the wages of 10% more favoured have grown twice as much as those of 10% less paid. More inequality; 8 million workers in this country are considered poor, Minister. It also increases the precariousness in contracts, here are the figures for August: more than 93% of the million and a half of the contracts that were signed were temporary contracts; just 69,000 of the million and a half of the contracts that were signed in August were full-time indefinite contracts. You are chronifying job insecurity and garbage contracts in this country, with consequent increases in inequality and poverty; more than 22 per cent of the population below the poverty line, 33 per cent among children. This is, Madam Minister, your employment spring. If you were more dedicated to talking to real workers and less to torturing statistics for your public speeches, you would know that workers in this country are having a rough winter. Where are the causes of this situation? Because this is not a meteorological phenomenon, this is not Hurricane Irma, these consequences are the product of a clear ideological model of unjust rights and a deliberate strategy, the strategy of inequality. These results are achieved by breaking collective bargaining. And how do you break the principles of collective bargaining? Weakening the position of workers' representatives and fundamentally empowering entrepreneurs. How do they do it? With the prevalence of the company agreement on the sector agreement, facilitating the practically free non-application of the agreements, with the free withdrawal of the agreements, ending the ultra-activity of the agreements and facilitating the modification of the substantial working-day conditions by the employer. With your labour reform you have managed, Minister, that the negotiation of wages has fallen as a result of the labour reform. Before the labour reform, even in times of crisis, the unions achieved wage increases above 2%. As a result of labour reform, the agreed wage increases do not in any way reach 1%. How do you achieve these results? With the conscious promotion of garbage procurement and labour exploitation. Temporary recruitment in this country has been completely de-causalized. Millions of temporary contracts are signed to cover jobs that by their very nature are indefinite. Temporary recruitment has been de-causalized. Part-time recruitment is fraught with fraud. There's a lot of fake part-time contracts that hide full-time days, Minister. How do you guys do this? For example, with overtime, which allows to carry a partial contract to a full day even under the law, preventing contracts from recording staff working hours and thus the labour inspector arriving at the company does not know exactly whether or not the law is being complied with. This is their regulation and has a conscious and deliberate objective, the objective of precarising the labour market to enable companies to gain competitiveness through the easiest and most unfair way: the precarisation and the lowering of wages. You have promoted the generalization of false part-time contracts, false self-employed contracts, false training contracts, false contracts of practical workers; false jobs for your false statistics which conceal a great truth, which is the increase in labour exploitation in our country. This policy has its costs not only in social terms, but also in terms of the weakness and fragility of the economic model. Inequalities are increasing, of course, but the economic model they promote with these policies is an unbalanced, vulnerable and weak model. Don't they realize that with these policies wages are falling, but consumption is also falling and the savings rate of families is also falling? What solid and strong economy are we going to build with low consumption and low savings rate of families? The productivity of a healthy economy cannot be based on wage devaluation. Business competitiveness in a healthy economy must be based on innovation, technology and not low wages. Minister, correct, and if you do not want to do so for sensitivity or social justice, do so at least motivated by the pursuit of economic efficiency. Of course there's a way out! You said a few minutes ago that wage bargaining is a matter for the social partners. But if you have been able with your policies to promote a devaluation of wages during the crisis, even during the recovery, you must be able, with the rectification of your policies, to contribute to an increase in wages. We're going to give you some clues with our rent deal. Can they or can they not raise the interprofessional minimum wage? We've done it for 2017. The Socialist Party has reached an agreement in this regard. Let us raise the minimum wage to EUR 1000 by 2020, Minister. Can they or can't they? Can they or can they not, as we are doing, promote between the social partners wage increases of 2.5 and 3.5% for the coming years? Can widespread wage review clauses be promoted in agreements over the coming years? Of course they can be promoted. Can public employees be better remunerated? This is a public responsibility and can be done. We can repeal labour reform and agree on a new statute for workers that will restore the balance of power within the company. Young people can be rescued with new relief contracts, the gender gap can be narrowed by means of a law on equal pay. Minister, you can do it if you want. I am afraid - and this concludes this first intervention - that the real spring for employment in this country will not come until you leave the government, Minister. [[Applauds]] In the meantime, we can make proposals to curb the deterioration in the labour market, we can push for a genuine income pact that will restore decent employment and decent wages. You are trying to convince the Spaniards that we must choose between employment and dignity. I tell you, Minister, there is no government or decent country without decent work and decent wages. Let's do it, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u163	Thank you very much. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u164	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Simancas, I would like to begin by welcoming you to the debate on the recovery and quality of employment in Spain. From the first moment I will admit that much remains to be done in Spain, yes, and in that we will be and will continue to be the Government and the representatives of the People's Party, because for us the first thing, talking about growth and recovery, is more employment, and the second thing every day also better employment. Although the figures, which no one should question because they are official, are improving, no one denies that much remains to be done, and although the averages favor the majority, there is still a minority that needs a push to achieve the definitive recovery. In that majority that needs that momentum are those you always forget, the 3 200 000 unemployed still in Spain, who want and need to work and who, unfortunately, today have not found a job. They are the priority for us. Do you know why, you like statistics so much? Because the CIS, month by month, tells us that the concern of more than 70% of Spaniards is unemployment. Let us therefore work first for employment and every day also for the quality of employment, Mr Simancas. So welcome to this debate. You can say whatever you want, but the current data support the collective effort of Spanish society, which today leads the creation of jobs in the euro area. Eurostat data for the second quarter of the year have just come out and Spain is leading employment creation in Europe: 165 000 jobs. It doubles 2.5 times those created in Poland, second-placed, and 35% more than in Germany. I insist that in that quarter Spain doubles the average of the whole eurozone in job creation thanks to the collective effort of the Spaniards. Spain has exhibited a good employment situation, whether you like the words that the Minister of Employment can use or not. I do not know whether it will seem better to you what is happening today, that 2600 jobs are created a day in Spain, or it yearns 2011 and the Socialist Government, when 1500 jobs are destroyed every day, Mr Simancas. Therefore, a little respect for Spanish society. [[Applauds]] To come to this debate after five years you should have thought a little bit, because you're talking about going back to 2008. I do not know whether you remember very well the situation in Spain at that time; a moment, by the way, when the Socialists, when they presented themselves to the elections, said that there was no crisis. In 2008 there was no crisis in Spain, in 2008 we were at a great time of recovery. One year, 2008, when wages in our country rose by 3.6%; the CPI rose by 4.1% and there were two consequences: the first, loss of purchasing power of workers and the second - and one that should be of concern to you - the destruction of 600 000 jobs in Spain. That is the model of the Socialist Party, which is very different from the model of growth with employment, gains in purchasing power and productivity, which is what has happened in recent years thanks to the social partners and thanks to a country that has commitment and responsibility. That, Your Honor, is the difference. It has been very difficult for them to turn the economic situation in Spain around to all Spanish people, to workers, to businesses, to families, to the social partners and, also, to all the public administrations so that you can go up to the gallery today to make such a demagogic analysis. During the last five years something very important has happened in our country, a change has been made in the model of labour relations, a model of flexicurity, Your Honor, in which conditions are more flexiblely agreed by companies and also workers are more secure because jobs are maintained. It is not said by the Government, it is said by different educational services, including the European Commission. If the 2012 labour reform had been approved in 2008 it would have avoided the destruction of two million jobs in Spain - BBVA Study Service -. Moreover, as the European Commission says, labour market reforms have accelerated job creation in our country, encouraging new employment growth with economic growth of around 1%. Thirdly, this reform and this model of flexicurity that we have seen among all - by the way, four groups in this House supported this reform - have managed to reduce unemployment in a direct way. Because, according to Fedea, the 32% reduction in unemployment in recent years can be attributed directly to changes and modernisation of labour legislation. So, Mr Simancas, don't be so unflexible in your ideological approaches. The Spanish labour reform will not be so bad when it has been copied by Mexico, Italy and, in recent days, also by the Republic of France. [[Rumors]] Therefore, something has been done well in this country in recent times. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, don't get nervous, there's time for everyone. While much has been done, we still have a lot to do, but there is something he says I do not accept because today in Spain there is no more social recovery that begins because economic growth is intensively translated into job creation. That has made it possible for us to recover 65% of the jobs that destroyed the crisis. And here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like once again to acknowledge in this forum the fundamental role of the social partners since 2011 which, with their commitment and responsibility and collective bargaining agreements, have allowed wage increases every year with purchasing power, have allowed the creation of 500 000 jobs since the recovery and, also, gains in productivity since the recovery. I therefore ask you to respect collective bargaining and the social partners, for the more than 230 000 workers' representatives who negotiate agreements at all levels every day in Spain. Respect them, because the rise in wages has been marked by them since 2012. And I'll tell you more. You talk to me about quality in employment, and I want to. I know we have a lot to do, but also acknowledge the progress that is being made in Spain. In Spain, indefinite recruitment is growing twice as much as temporary. In Spain, three out of four people working today have an indefinite contract; by the way, 7 points more than before the crisis. Eighty-two per cent of the undefined employment destroyed and 44 per cent of the temporary employment has been recovered. I'll give you one more piece of information. The average annual contribution per member changes at the rate of wages. In 2016 it grew above 1%, since 2007 it has grown by 10.8%. Therefore, today the average annual contribution per social security member is 5990 euros, when in 2007 it was 5300 euros. In short, things are evolving better, Mr Simancas. As I said, productivity gains are produced for the first time in Spain, not for the destruction of employment, as happened in the management of the crisis in the first stage with the socialist government. Productivity gains are produced with employment growth and, in addition, purchasing power gains. That's what happened in our country, whether you like it or not. Since the recovery, Spain has been among the countries in the euro area where real productivity has grown the most, which is the one that takes into account the effect of prices; it has grown by 3,9 %. What is new about this recovery, Mr Simancas, is that these productivity gains were achieved in 2014 -0.4% -, in 2015 -0.7- and in 2016 -1.7- while 500 000 jobs were created per year. Therefore, our model is social recovery, but it is also a safe model for workers, because they are also gaining in productivity and improving wages. And I don't say that, says the ESC. The ESC says that the 2016 wage valuation marks a new gain in wages, as it did in the previous two years. Yesterday we knew the average increase in collective agreement agreed in Spain: it is in 1.33. It is the representatives of workers and companies in collective bargaining who have to decide what the wages will rise in the coming years. We are now in the public sphere with the Civil Service table and the Finance Minister negotiating with the social partners, with the trade unions, the rise in wages for the next few years in Spain, because with us public officials are raised their salaries and with you when they govern they are reduced by between 5% and 10%. That, Your Honor, is also the reality. You have said some things that are not true. The first of them is that the recovery comes to the company and does not reach the workers, and I tell you that is not true. Read the figures right. Since the recovery, wage earners have grown by 9.8% and business profits by 9.3, with 500 000 jobs per year, I insist. What do we want to do from the government? To continue to favour the continued growth of Spain, the creation of jobs and the achievement of recovery for all. When it touches, in October-November, we will open consultations for the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage for next year, as it does, according to the royal decree. And, as I told you, wage increases are being agreed in the public sphere for the coming years. But, ladies and gentlemen, do not forget that those who decide to raise wages in Spain for the majority are the unions and the employers. You, being socialists, should have more respect for trade union and business representatives in your own sphere, which is collective autonomy, which is collective agreements, which negotiate in a bipartisan sphere. We here again show our confidence because with responsibility and commitment they are going to accompany this intense recovery that Spain is experiencing today, growing by more than 3%, also with a job recovery of 500 000 jobs each year, with increases in productivity and of course with annual gains of purchasing power. They know how to do it right and the People's Group and the Government have, we have, their confidence. So let's let people work normally. Finally, Your Honor, you tell me about temporality. The rate of temporality in Spain before the crisis was 35%, now 7 points below. Talking about temporaryity and precarious employment being socialist is risky, Mr Simancas. The duality of the labour market is born essentially - experts say - with garbage contracts and temporary contracts in the 1980s with a socialist government. When we arrived at the government in 2011, another socialist government, Zapatero, launched a measure consisting in the endless chaining of temporary contracts, which was stopped by the government of Mariano Rajoy. Also, in 2011 they decided that university fellows did not have social protection, and it was this government, together with the union Workers' Commissions, that put an end to that. Today, university students in Spain can practice and also have social protection from the very beginning because, Mr Simancas, it is one thing to do demagogy and another to make decisions favouring workers every day. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u166	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you tell us: Spain leads, Spain doubles, they copy us. Mrs Báñez, you are the Minister of Employment of a country with more than eight million poor workers. Do us the favor of ascending to this rostrum with something more humble and with something less boastful and self-congratulation. [[Applauds]] Do us a favor and do it to her too. As usual, you decide to respond to our well-founded criticisms with pilgrim references to the past and I will tell you something: you can tell us about the socialist governments of Zapatero, the socialist governments of González, the socialist governments of Largo Caballero, Negrin or Emperor Trajano - that you were not socialist, but you were Andalusian and could serve you - but none of this will remove that the increase in garbage contracts and labour poverty in this country is your fault, your responsibility, your inheritance, Minister. [[Laughter]] [[Applauds]] After six years of government, Mrs Báñez, you are heiress of yourself, is your precarious work, is your wage devaluation, is your failure; neither of Zapatero, nor of González, nor of Negrin, nor of Trajano, are yours, Minister. It bothers you that we reproach you for these unfortunate expressions about the spring of employment and I don't know who writes these phrases to you, I don't know if you are even the one who invents them, but it is, Minister, believe me, a lack of respect for all those workers who are forced daily to accept junk jobs with extreme days and wages of misery, and there are many. What do you think, Minister, that a citizen who listens on the Television every day thinks of how some large companies boast of growth, of profits above 15, of 20%, while they have to sign salary increases of 1,3, as you said, or wages below 1000 euros? They think companies exploit them and think their government is complicit. How can you tell them, after this, about employment spring? The workers of this country are living, I have already told you, a hard winter, a lasting winter. Is it not embarrassing for you, for example, that all of Europe witnessed this summer that a company with a public majority, such as AENA, which claims on its website 117% profit increases during the first quarter of 2017, had to force its security workers to call a strike because they have been reduced by 350 euros a month and placed below 1000 euros? Doesn't it embarrass you? [[Applauds]] 117% increase in profit and wage earners below EUR 1000. This is a shame, Minister, we see the same statistics but we make a different assessment. What assessment do you make, for example, of those studies by the General Workers' Union which tell us that more than 10% of workers in this country cannot cope with the food expenditure of their families or that more than 12% of workers do not reach the minimum wage? They do not reach 700 euros because they are suffering from fake temporary contracts. Do you know what it's like to live on less than 700 euros a month in spring, in summer, in autumn or in winter? Madam Minister, of course statistics must be respected. Do you know how the labour force survey, the EPA, is done? The citizen is called and asked: Did you work for at least an hour last week in exchange for a well-paying money, either in kind or in any other way? Here's the question. I respect the statistics, but can you really infer from the data from this survey that there are only 17% of workers in Spain who are having a bad time, Minister? Look less at the statistics, ask more of the people and you will really know what is going on in this country and the fumes will go down. [[Applauds]] Minister, you are promoting an ideological scam to the Spaniards. They want to convince the Spaniards that we have to choose between growing up or sharing, between garbage or unemployment contracts, between employment or decent wages, between work or dignity. And it's fake because there are other policies. There are alternative policies to yours that can ensure that you grow by sharing with justice, that you contribute to a stronger economy with good jobs. The countries that grow more solidly, the least vulnerable countries, the most developed countries, Minister, are not the ones that have the most garbage contracts, it is the opposite. We're not asking you so much imagination, just look around. We want to look like the most worthy countries in our environment. It is true that not only is there bad news - I finish, Madam President - because the Tax Agency has just told us that the number of supermillionaires in this country has grown by 24% since 2012 and that we have 57 000 people who charge more than 1.5 million a year. Inequality, Minister, is what we are blaming you for. Excuse the tone. A colleague of yours a few years ago in the Community of Madrid told me that I was suffering from a disease that was class grudge. I always told him that more than class grudges, I was passionate about equality and justice. I know you're not going to cure this supposed illness but I recommend that you now in the replica speak with a little more humility because one day - believe me too that I tell you with all respect - you're going to choke with so much boast. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u167	To conclude the debate, the Minister for Employment and Social Security has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u168	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Simancas, you know that from all the previous speech - as I always do in this House - recovery, job creation and the improvement of people's opportunities I never blame the Spanish Government for it always blame Spanish society. That's also the difference between you and us, that's your way of doing cheap demagogy every day, Mr. Simancas. [[Applauds]] I'm worried about something and I'm going to tell you frankly. I am concerned that the first opposition party, which should be called upon in its day to lead a government in the future, forgets how fundamental the Spanish live today. What the Spaniards are living today - although much remains to be done - is the need to find a job and, therefore, to put the unemployed and the unemployed on the horizon of all our public policies. Because you want - before I told Mr Ábalos - you want a recovery with some, we want a recovery with everyone where the unemployed, the unemployed, the wage earners, the pensioners and those who live in the labour market in a more vulnerable way. But in his speech, and I am concerned, in the report on the income pact they have submitted, in the eighteen pages he has, there is no mention of an unemployed person or an unemployed person in Spain. That says a lot about the partial recovery they want. Therefore, your proposal for Spanish society - which you say is novel - begins by being insolidary because the unemployed are out. They're the first thing for us. It's also disrespectful. [[Mrs. Cancela Rodríguez utters words that are not perceived]] No, no, read it, honourable Member, I'm sure you haven't even read it. [[Protests]] It is disrespectful of collective bargaining because it places duties on the social partners, the bands tell them where they have to negotiate, something that this country has never seen of a socialist government. But moreover, the worst of all, Mr Simancas, is that your proposal is fallacious because it is based on false premises. It is false that wage wage is losing weight in the national economy because today, with 1.5 million less wage earners and workers in Spain, the total wage of the wage economy is 0.5% higher than in 2007. Although you say that the recovery comes only to the entrepreneurs, I have already told you in my first intervention that the remuneration of employees has grown by 9.8% since the recovery and only by 9.3 the profits of exploitation. You forget that only half of the productive fabric that destroyed the crisis has been recovered, Your Honor. There are many companies in crisis in Spain and they have to move forward to continue creating jobs and to continue paying better wages. And it is also false that collective bargaining has been broken because it increases at all levels of negotiation year after year. And it is also false that there is an abuse of temporality in Spain. I have already told you that today there are more people with indefinite contracts in Spain than at the beginning of the crisis, although we still have much to do. If you want me to tell you what my model is, I'll tell you. My model is that of employment stability, for example in Madrid, which is above 80%, while unfortunately in other autonomous communities where you govern is ten points below the Spanish average, at 63% instead of 73%. That's the reality. And today, however - and I am concerned about any job and the quality of the job - the employees with a contract of less than a month - there are all the contracts for hours, the contracts for days - the employees of less than a month represent 0.9 % of the total employees, which is an important figure but I also want them to put it in the general context. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, much needs to be done for the quality of the job every day, but do not say that the job is being distributed because it is not true, 93 % of the job recovered is full-time. Do not say that temporary recruitment grows more, that is not true, that it grows at a rate and doubles indefinite recruitment, even if there are people who unfortunately get worse. I also wanted to tell you that our model is a model for getting everyone out of the crisis. That means that the first beneficiary of economic recovery must be the unemployed, the one who needs to work. Your Honor, what is really unworthy is to have people without pay and people in unemployment, as you did in your management of the first phase of the crisis by sending them to unemployment, there were more than 4 million layoffs and more than 3.5 million unemployed when the socialists ruled. Firstly, employment, therefore, should continue to create 500 000 jobs per year. Secondly, continue to raise wages every year within the framework that they decide in collective bargaining, increases that allow gains of purchasing power. Our aim is to create these 500 000 jobs and to make productivity gains, which is the healthy growth of the Spanish economy, which will give us robust, sustainable and more social growth in the medium and long term. Therefore, Your Honor, that is our pattern of growth; its model is much less generous, it is a more insolidary model because it leaves the unemployed out and above all it is a model that also interferes in what must be sacred to all, which is the framework of collective bargaining between trade unions and employers. Your Honor, rejoice with us that things are getting better - although much remains to be done - thanks to the collective effort of all Spanish society. And there should also be the Socialist Party. I ask you, instead of making criticisms, to make proposals, because that is also how Spain is built every day. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-13-CD170913.u169	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was 12:30 at noon.
