ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u1	The meeting was called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, two weeks from the tragic attacks in Barcelona and Cambrils, and on the occasion of this plenary session, I ask your ladies and gentlemen to keep a minute of silence as a sign of solidarity with the victims of this terrible terrorist attack and of support for their families as a proof of gratitude to the security forces, to the emergency services and to the citizens as a whole, and as a condemnation and strong rejection of terrorism. This House, the seat of national sovereignty, expresses with this silence the unity of the Spaniards for freedom, for democracy and against violence. [[Ladies and gentlemen, stand up, keep a minute of silence]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u2	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. COMPARISON OF THE GOVERNMENT TO THE FULL ROOM, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 203 OF THE REGULATION: - URGENT COMPARISON OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT TO THE FULL OF THE CAMARA, REQUESTED BY THE SOCIALIST AND CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMAND IN MARIA, TO EXPLAIN THE REASONS ON WHICH POLITICAL RESPONSIBILITIES ARE NECESSARY IN THE CASES OF CORRUPTION WHICH HAVE BEEN DemonstratED IN THE PEOPLE'S PARTY AND THAT THEY'VE REASONED THAT THEY HAVE TO DECLARATE BEFORE THE NATIONAL HEARING IN THE ORAL VIEW OF THE GÜRTEL CASE. [[File number 210/000029]] - COMPARISON OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT TO THE FULL OF THE CAMARA, REQUESTED BY THE JOINT AND DEVELOPING PARLIAMENTARY GROUPS, TO TAKE ACCOUNT OF THE REASONS WHY, AS THE FIRST AUTHORITY OF THE GOVERNMENT, DOES NOT TAKE HIS POLITICAL RESPONSIBILITIES AS THE GENERAL SECRETARY OF THE PEOPLE'S PARTICIPATE IN THE FINANCING OF THE PARTICIPATE IN A BOX. [[File number 210/000030]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u3	We move on to the joint debate on the appearances of the President of the Government agreed by the Permanent Chamber to explain the reasons why he refuses to assume political responsibility for the cases of corruption that have been revealed in the People's Party and that have motivated him to have to testify before the National Court at the oral hearing of the Gürtel case, and to account for the reasons why, as the first authority of the Government, he refuses to assume his political responsibilities as secretary general of the People's Party in the financing of the party through a B-box, requested respectively by the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and by the mixed parliamentary groups of the Republican Squerra. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin this speech with a reminder to the victims of the attacks in Barcelona and Cambrils and a brief reflection on the tragedy that the Spaniards suffered there in Catalonia just a few days ago. They have wounded us in a corner of Spain, but we have felt the pain in Spain as a whole, and we have invaded all Spaniards not only the nightmare, but also the anger contained in the incomprehensible cruelty of a fanaticism without heart. I would like to reiterate our support and affection for the victims and their families, all the victims, whether they had a Spanish passport or not, because they are all our victims today. We have tried to speed up from the very beginning all the care mechanisms so that no one, having the nationality he had, could feel helpless in these dramatic circumstances. It comforts us all to have found that, once again, the Spaniards have shown the world the courage, temperance and solidarity of a nation that knows terror very closely because it has spent many years putting up with its outbursts. I would like to acknowledge in this House all the State Security Forces and Corpses, which every day and everywhere safeguard our rights and freedoms. The Spaniards are grateful to them and we are aware of the security services that are among the best in the world. Similarly, it is necessary to recognize the role of all members of the Health and Civil Protection System in their vital work in assisting the injured. To them, as to our consular service, I would like to reiterate the support and appreciation of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, they have hurt us but they have not beaten us or will beat us. They'll keep stalking us, but we'll be more and more prepared to face them. First, with our unity, united in everything we share, the values of life, freedom and coexistence in peace. United in the determined effort to end the worst threat today to the West, as we demonstrated last Monday by the European leaders we met in Paris. United in order to let the fans know that in Spain they are not going to find support, because in the block we want to offer the Spaniards and their representatives we are not willing to leave any cracks in which to dwell the sinrazón. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let us enter into the matter before us today. This is a matter that we have discussed extensively in this House in various formats in recent years, on different aspects of it and with various requests from the parliamentary groups that have raised it. In particular, and only in this Congress of Deputies, I have had fifty-two interventions related to it. I only remind you of the most important ones: Appearance of August 1, 2013 - more than four years ago -. In addition, on 27 November 2014, I defended the Government's position in the debate on all the bills that formed part of the National Democratic Regeneration Plan. Also in several appearances to report on European Council meetings we have dealt with these issues; I refer in particular to the discussions on the Councils on 7 and 8 February 2013, on 22 May of the same year, on 23 and 24 October 2014 and on 18 December also 2014. In all the debates of the state of the nation held during the 10th Legislature we also address the problems of corruption. Specifically in the years 2013, 2014 and 2015. We also had the opportunity to deal with this in the last four investment debates, in 2011 and the three in 2016, 4 March, 2 September and 29 October. In addition, in the weekly monitoring sessions to the Government I have answered thirty-two oral questions on these same matters since February 2012. I would like to point out that the report I have just made to you contains only debates which have taken place in this House and which I have spoken in my capacity as President of the Government. I therefore ignore all those who have taken place in the Senate and the innumerable speeches on this subject which the Ministers have played both in plenary and in the Commission. To a greater extent, I would remind you that at the moment there are two parliamentary committees, one of which is an investigation, already working in this House on the same thing. The degree of detail that is being followed in these works is credited by the appearance of people who left the People's Party and public life more than a quarter of a century ago. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that only two months ago several honourable Members wanted this House to demand the political responsibility of the President of the Government, and in order to achieve its objectives they launched the instrument that the Spanish Constitution establishes for this purpose, an instrument that had not been used for more than thirty years in our country: the motion of censure. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I have always and fully submitted to the control of this House. From the first day I respond to my actions, I take account of my speeches, I participate in all sorts of debates and I attend to all the questions that you have to ask me. I do, among other reasons, because it is my duty as President of the Government. Another thing is that some of you do not like anything that I do and despise the explanations that you try to ask me, that you pretend to give them reason without further delay, that you show conformity with what you present as undisputed truth, that you can easily admit your accusations, those that you agree with at every moment, and that you therefore pay the corresponding penalty, a penalty that would be missing, you also establish, and, if possible, that you abandon the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, you will understand that I cannot accept these approaches, that is not how things work. But let us return to the account of the facts of which he causes this appearance. The truth is that some of you decided last August 24th that I would come here, in this very month and in an extraordinary plenary session, outside the session, to talk about the same thing again. On this occasion, and given the obvious absence of any new element that might justify these emergencies, the excuse they bring is my supposed refusal to assume political responsibilities for having testified as a witness before a court. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the right to request my appearance, I will not reproach you. Nor am I going to lose myself in reflections or cabals on the true intentions that seem to encourage the inquisitorial zeal of some of your ladies and gentlemen, but they are going to allow me to insist on what I just pointed out a few moments ago: that I have already reported on the same on fifty-two occasions, that there is no reason whatsoever for this appearance and that, in view of the problems that we have today in Spain and the challenges that we must face, we do not understand the need to hold an extraordinary debate on this matter outside the session and that we do not focus on others that perhaps deserve the attention and interest of your ladies and gentlemen more rightly. [[Applauds]] In any case, it is you who set your priorities. This is what worries you most and I respect it, although, as I have just told you, I do not share it. Having said that, allow me two more considerations. The first thing that brings me to the attention of this request for attendance - and I do not know if I should congratulate myself on this - is that it is justified not by actions of my Government, as stipulated in the Spanish Constitution - it is the usual and logical thing - but by actions of my party, and some, by the way, more than twenty years ago. Frankly, ladies and gentlemen, in view of this unusual lack of interest in the management of the Executive, I must think that we are doing so with so much certainty that we do not offer any reason for your criticisms or that you do not take the job of looking for them - I am referring to the reasons - and you prefer to continue going through a path that, from such a treble, threatens not to take them anywhere. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, your obsession with trying to judge and condemn in this House my political formation, because it is not the Government of Spain, it is my political formation. They do it every time they get a chance. Their alliances allow them to add the votes for it - it is true that not always -, but let me tell you that their sum of minorities does not serve to amend the plan to the clear and clear will that the Spanish have expressed on the last three occasions when they were summoned to the polls. Don't take this the wrong way, but you will understand that it points to an indisputable fact: when it comes to making political judgments and valuing the responsibilities of one or the other, it is much more equitable, less biased and, therefore, more accurate the judgment of the Spaniards than that of one of their lords in sessions like this. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, given these reflections, I shall refer to what you are asking me to explain: why I refuse to assume political responsibilities as you demand. I must tell you that, in the light of your demands, the concept of political responsibility that you proclaim has nothing to do with what our constitutional text says and yes much with its political urgency. Just as you seem to understand political responsibility - when it comes to mine, not certainly yours - it is a bottomless sack in which you can introduce as much as you like and use it to the liking of your specific interests. Ladies and gentlemen, I say this to you with complete frankness, I do not object to political responsibilities being demanded of me, it is one of the most important functions that you have, in addition to passing laws or controlling the government. And that power to demand political responsibility is also your exclusive power, only you can do it, not even the Senate is empowered to do so, and this is logical and reasonable. The President of the Government is because this House gives him his confidence and this House can withdraw it. That is to demand political responsibilities. And how can he do that? Historically, confidence was withdrawn when the Government lost an important vote, but that raised two problems that were well understood. First, it confused the parliamentary pronouncement on a specific matter - one that was sufficient - with the global expression of trust or not to the Government, and, second, it caused situations of great institutional instability because the loss of a simple vote brought down the Government and then a process was already opened to see who and how it governed, if that was possible. Well, ladies and gentlemen, to avoid this situation, modern constitutional systems, including our Constitution, have established an instrument, one, to demand the political responsibility of the Government: the motion of censure, which is subject to a series of material and procedural requirements that I will not report because you know them perfectly well. That is how political responsibility is demanded in Spain today. This is a responsibility that has nothing to do with the civil, administrative or criminal offences that are committed in other instances and that is also different from the criticism that can be made of the action of the Government through the various instruments of control, information or investigation contained in the Rules of Congress and which you all know very well and use with profit. Or, in other words, criticism of the Government for a specific act or policy does not determine the demand for political responsibility; to do so, the House by majority must withdraw confidence in the Government and name another president, that is, approve a motion of censure, as required by our Constitution. Having said that, ladies and gentlemen - we had to say it to speak with property - let us now go to the substance. This House has given me its confidence - it has done so twice - something which I again deeply thank, as I did at the time, and which was quite reasonable because at last the People's Party was the political force that had the most popular votes and seats in this House. A very short time ago, after the debate on a motion of censure, this House has not withdrawn its confidence, otherwise said, it has not forced me to assume political responsibilities. In addition, my party - and I was his candidate for the Presidency of the Government - have held the confidence of the Spanish people on three occasions. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, my duty is to govern - it is my duty - and I will continue to do so to meet the Spanish and to meet this House. I insist, it's my obligation and I'm not going to give it up. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many challenges ahead and, unfortunately, some of them have become dramatically palpable these days. The most serious attacks in Barcelona and Cambrils are a reminder to all that fighting terrorism, defending people's lives, rights and freedoms must be our top priority. Ladies and gentlemen, that is or should be our top priority. To preserve the unity of Spain, our constitutional text and with it our democratic system is something that demands our full attention and to what we cannot and will not give up. Nor can we forget that, despite the progress that has been made following the most serious economic crisis that the Spanish people have experienced in decades, we must continue to persevere in economic recovery, avoid putting it at risk and make it reach all households. In my opinion, these are the most important challenges, I suppose for a majority of those present too, although today some of you have preferred that we debate on other things on an extraordinary basis. It is your decision, to which you have wanted to give priority and I, as I said before, respect it. In any case and for their tranquility, I assure you that I too am concerned and for a long time the struggle to improve fairness and transparency in our public life. For that I have worked and a lot, believe me, I have done it in recent years and I am willing to continue to do it in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, we have passed a dozen laws - which are said soon - with the sole aim of strengthening citizens' confidence in our democratic system. We have done so by democratic conviction, without anyone forcing us to do so, with a majority that granted the ability to do or not to do so, without anyone forcing us, I repeat, and many times without many supporting us. Because I have always believed, ladies and gentlemen, that reforms are more effective against corruption than you blame them. I would remind you that at the first Council of Ministers in 2011, following the appointments of the cabinet, we approved a reform of the Law on the Financing of Political Parties, before anyone claimed it, long before even a Member of the opposition asked me the first question on this subject. We reformed a law passed by the previous Government, which my Government wanted to make firmer, not only by lowering subsidies to parties, but by reducing for the first time the funding it receives by other means. Among other decisions, we prohibit a publicly funded entity from making a donation to a party. We set more limits and controls because we also reform transparency requirements. For example, our political parties have to publish their accounts on their website by this law. Not only did we reform the Law on the Financing of Political Parties, but we adopted a new law to control all its economic and financial activity, ranging from the content of the statutes to the functions of the Court of Auditors, to leave no room for irregularities and to completely change the way in which the parties operate in our country and how they are controlled. Donations of legal persons are now prohibited, rather than those of natural persons who exceed 50,000 euros and all are communicated to the Court of Auditors. Bank debt cancellations to political parties or any out-of-market renegotiations are prohibited today; before I was president of the government the situation was quite different, as some present here can prove that they were granted significant debt forgivenesss by financial institutions. [[Applauds]] Today all those responsible for the economic management of a party are subject to the requirements of suitability and honorability and of appearance in this Parliament, not because someone asks for it, but because the law requires it. Today all parties have to submit their accounts to the court, all without exception and, in addition, they cannot receive any subsidies if they do not comply with this rule or have debts with the public administration, nor can anyone who has been convicted of corruption-related offences do so. In short, ladies and gentlemen, today all political parties in this House and outside it have to comply with the strictest rules that have ever existed in our country, and not only that, but they face criminal responsibility if they fail to do so - a criminal responsibility that did not exist before - or can be charged with an offence of illegal financing, which was also not covered by the Criminal Code. All these are improvements that we have introduced and that it is not good to ignore, among other things because it is not fair and because they have made a significant progress in the fight against corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, we have not only increased our vigilance over political parties, we have also put the public administration and its officials under the utmost control, because it was my Government that finally adopted a law on transparency for Spain, it was my Government that turned into advertising on its own initiative, which was once a complete opacity. Subsidies, contracts or real estate of the Administration, remunerations, compensations or compatibility of the high offices, everything is public today and was not so before the last reforms. Likewise, we have assumed the political responsibility of making good governance compulsory, with established rules of public administration and specific sanctions in case of non-compliance. That is why we did a reform of the Criminal Code, so that those who fail to comply with their obligations face all the consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, collective obligations, and also at a particular level, because it has also been my Government that has adopted the first High Commissioner's Statute, with the highest requirements of suitability and honorability for his appointment, and above all more stringent controls are laid down on his assets in the appointment and also in the cessation, in order to detect any possibility of unjustifiable enrichment and bring him, in this case, to justice if necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, we are and have always been aware that it is not enough to make the rules more demanding, it is necessary to make the sanctions more effective and, where appropriate, even tougher, in order to deter those who might wish to approach politics for other spurious and non-general interest purposes. That is why we have worked to facilitate and strengthen the action of the justice system, with reforms in the criminal and procedural fields, and this allows me to say that the Government has provided more instruments to the courts to deal with corruption, not only because they can now prosecute more crimes, starting, as I have told you, with illegal financing, but because they can demand more responsibilities by extending the limitation periods for corruption-related offences, they can impose harsher penalties, longer disqualifications and they have more instruments to make it back to the last euro stolen from the Spaniards. In the last few months of the 10th Legislature we created, as you know, the Office of Asset Recovery and Management from the Fight against Corruption. A month ago, he appeared here in this House, his head, because this was established by the Government in its regulation, to account for his management and results, reporting that today he manages more than 250 seized property of the crime and has about 17 million euros in his deposit account. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also worked to provide more instruments for justice and have done our utmost to provide it with better means, despite the economic difficulties that we, as you know or should know, have experienced. I'll give you some data. The budgets in force for 2017 provide for the creation of 89 new courts, in addition to the 16 places of judges for the second criminal court. A total of 105 units strengthen our judicial system and fight, among other crimes, against corruption. Precisely the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office has increased its staff by 40% since 2014 and the number of its provincial delegates has increased by 14%. The number of support staff of the Tax Agency has increased by 22 % and that of the Civil Guard by 35 %. Ladies and gentlemen, all these reforms have been put forward and approved so that there is no doubt that our will for public service is ensured by controls and is guaranteed by the rule of law, but also to make it clear to the Spaniards that those who step aside in their political activity from this public service will be removed from their responsibilities and from politics. I have said on many occasions, and I want to withdraw it here today, that there is no impunity in Spain, that the institutions are functioning, that controls are warning us and that irregularities are being punished where they have to be punished, in the courts and in the ballot box. Otherwise, we would never have known the cases of corruption we have known in recent years. But the most important thing is that the police, the Civil Guard, the judges and the prosecutors have taken them to the courts, which are being pursued and judged because there is no impunity for corruption and there is more force against it. There is no impunity because Spain is a country with controls, there have always been them, but now they are stricter than ever; in Spain there is freedom of the press and everyone reports what they think is appropriate and convenient; in Spain there is a Court of Auditors that audits the economic and financial activity of the parties; in Spain there is a Judicial Power that pursues the crimes and punishes its culprits; in Spain there is a Government that complies and enforces the laws, and in Spain, ladies and gentlemen, each one fulfills its function, that is and that should always be. The institutions, justice and the rule of law work, I have always defended it with all my conviction and I will always work to make it so with all my will because it is what I believe in. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said this once but I want to reiterate it here today: I believe in politics, in people who from any democratic ideology put all their capacities at the service of the common good, in the nobility of the individual vocation of working for collective progress, in the dignity of politics and of those who know how to exercise it, and since I am not sick of sectarianism I include you all in that general consideration. [[Applauds]] I also reiterate to you what I have said on many occasions in this House, that I am prepared to continue to work to improve the instruments of control, prevention and punishment that allow us to be more effective in the fight against corruption. In short, ladies and gentlemen, once again I have appeared before this Congress of Deputies because you have decided to do so. I will do it again every time you have to ask for it, what I cannot and should not do is to abdicate my responsibilities as a government, what this House demands of me and the majority confidence of the Spaniards. In conclusion, allow me to insist on something I have referred to earlier, I consider it substantial and for me it is the most important part of my speech today. We have very important challenges ahead that deserve our priority attention and, to the extent possible, they demand a constructive attitude from all of us, putting the interests of all Spaniards ahead of us. We need to be united to deal with the terrorist threat; united in Spain, for which we must work and strengthen the jihadist terrorism pact, and united with our European partners. A few hours ago in Paris we ratified our firm will to fight together and to strengthen coordination in operational and intelligence matters. We must also be aware of the seriousness of the challenge posed by the will of some to liquidate our national unity and coexistence in a unilateral and open disregard for the most elementary rules of a democracy. The Government will act with the firmness required by the magnitude of the provocation to our rule of law, our Constitution and Catalonia's own self-government. It will defend the right of all Spaniards to decide what their country is and protect Catalans from an autocratic project led by radicals that would only bring division, confrontation and loss of freedom and well-being. [[Applauds]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, although no one has been questioning the results of recovery and the good data on economic growth and job creation for a long time, we still have a very important task ahead of us. We have overcome the biggest economic crisis in Spain in decades. The last labour force survey reminded us that in the last year the number of people employed in Spain increased by 660,000. Well, despite these good data, there is still much left to reach the 20 million occupied, which is the objective I raised in the debate on investiture in this legislature. This would not only be good in itself, it would help improve our public services, our pensions and the level of well-being of the Spaniards, let us not forget. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the priorities of my Government and I believe that of most Spaniards. There is certainly more, of course, we must continue to fight corruption by making it increasingly difficult, by more rigorously sanctioning reprehensible conduct and by strengthening citizens' confidence in our democracy. What I am not sure - and I am quite frank - is that these kinds of debates are very useful for these purposes. I'm rather afraid that some people's goal is another, and I also think that there are a lot of people who are beginning to realize it. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u5	The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Robles Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u6	Thank you, Madam President. My group naturally wants to start with the memory of the victims and the support of the State security forces at this difficult time in Spain. Having said that, without a prologue and an introduction as long as that of the President of the Government because we do not have so much time, I will explain to him, Mr Rajoy, why my group is asking for his appearance, is asking for it today in plenary and is going to ask for it in the Committee of Inquiry. You're going to ask because my group wants to know the truth. I'll give you three reasons. The first reason is that you are a suspect president. You are a president under suspicion because with your silences, with your omissions, with your lack of truth you have shown a connivance or tolerance with the financing of your party, which is subject to the knowledge of the courts. You haven't clarified anything to us today either. Look, the issue of corruption is an issue that affects public money. The money that the corrupt take does not go to Social Security, does not go to unemployment, does not go to pensions, and the citizens of this country care a lot. And what do you do in that fight against corruption to recover public money? I will tell you, a fiscal amnesty; a fiscal amnesty that the Constitutional Court has annulled, and not as you say for formal reasons of decree-law, which it also says, but, as you will have read in the judgment, the Constitutional Court clearly tells you that it has failed to fulfil the duty of those involved in corruption cases and those who did not pay taxes to contribute to the public purses; it is told by the Constitutional Court, in addition to telling you that you have violated the right of all citizens to contribute proportionally to their economic resources. I insist, I do not say, that is what the Constitutional Court says, the tax amnesty. And what have you done in this matter of money? When January 17, 2013 The World publishes that Mr.Bárcenas has 22 million in his account in Switzerland, you the next day send him a message: 'Luis, be strong'. Be strong why? Because he's got a lot of money at the bank in Switzerland? Many Spaniards would already like to have 22 million euros. Am I strong because those 22 million euros have been the result of corruption? You will explain to us - because you have not explained it - why you send this message. How you care about public money! I'll give you a third reason. Because you, as President of the Government - for the first time in history as President of the Government - appear before the National Court as a witness. I'll tell you one thing. As a professional who has worked for more than thirty years in the world of justice, I will tell you that your statement made me blush. I was blushed by the shapes. You thought you were here, in parliamentary office, with the moral superiority and arrogance you use. In addition, you answered with all kinds of evasive questions from the court and, above all, from the lawyers of the charges. Mr. Maillo, so concerned about extraterrestrials and paranormal phenomena, came to say that Age was equivalent to Adicae. For you have made me blush because of your evasiveness, because you have not tried to clarify the facts being prosecuted. But I am not surprised, because Judge Ruz, who was just the one who investigated the Gürtel case, was criticized by his party, tremendous criticisms; moreover, he was not given the last extension so that he could investigate the facts and his minister, Mr Montoro, reprobated by this House, was allowed the luxury of telling Mr Ruz that he was not going to send him documentation, having to be the prosecutor's office who demanded that such documentation be provided. I would say that it is - I am not going to use a very harsh adjective - a lack of respect for justice professionals to say that you are working for justice. For this year there have been only sixty-five places of judges and thirty-five places of prosecutors. That doesn't even cover maternity leave. I already understand that you, when you go to court, enter through the back door and by official car, and your Minister of Justice can tell you Lexnet's rulings. [[Applauds]] I also recommend that you see how Judge Eloy Velasco says he's leaving the National Court because they don't give him the means against corruption. I'll tell you more. The Socialist Party, my group, has a deep sense of state. [[Rumors]] That deep sense of state has made it possible for you to be with us in the fight against terrorism, in support of the State Security Forces, to support you in defending the legal order in Catalonia, even if you demand and demand more dialogue. [[Applauds]] But because we have a sense of state we know that the second concern of the Spanish citizens is corruption and fraud; 49% of the citizens of this country think that it is the main priority and others understand that it is the second, after unemployment. Transparency International, in its November 2016 report, says explicitly that 80% of respondents in this country do not believe in their commitment to fight corruption and suspend it; they also give the highest percentage in Europe. And I am not surprised that you are suspended and that the Spanish citizens do not trust you because you have not told the truth, you have failed the truth in financing your party. In 2013, you appear before the executive committee of your party and say that in the People's Party there is no B-box or illegal financing, which no one has paid out, but on November 24, 2014, Judge Ruz, so badly-deserved by you, dictates a car in which he clearly says that there is a B-box, that there is a financing of his party in a B-box carried by Mr.Alvaro Lapuerta and Mr.Bárcenas. Do you hear anything from Mr. Álvaro Lapuerto and Mr. Barcenas? And that box B - you see - lasts from 1999 to 2009, a long time for you not to find out. And, as I was telling you, the central investigating judge, Mr. Ruz, says that with that box B what was done was to pay for election campaigns - you ran the one of 2000, remember that, right? - and also outstanding. But no longer only Mr.Ruz in November 2014, is that the prosecutor himself in 2015 expressly recognizes in his indictment that box B and says that it is a box B nourished by donations in exchange for obtaining public awards. You, who in 2013 said that there is nothing like that, neither in 2014 nor 2015 make any kind of statement about it. And you go the other day to testify before the court of justice, which occurred to me - I told you before - that blush that sometimes causes us legal professionals to see that some witnesses, and much more when you are president of the government... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u7	Quiet, please,
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u8	..., try to respond with evasive ones. And you said that your statement was of pure common sense. Well, I'll tell you the pure common sense you used. You said that you only dealt with political issues, not economic ones. Man, you ran an election campaign, there's the damn hemeroteca, where you can see yourself explaining the 2000 election campaign. And you said that you had only had two meetings, a meeting with the treasurer, Mr. Laporta, in which Mr. Laporta had to explain something to you, you don't know very well, about Mr. Correa, and you said to him, "If that is so, let us no longer contract with him." No explanation was given as to what was going on in the hiring with Mr. Correa; he did not want to give it. You spoke of another meeting that was attended by the treasurer Lapuerto and Mrs. Esperanza Aguirre, and you just told Mrs. Esperanza Aguirre: Do what you think is right. I remind you that Mrs Esperanza Aguirre talks about assuming political responsibilities because of guilt in guarding, and you have a treasurer and a manager sitting right now on the bench. Well, look, that pure common sense tells us that what you said is not credible. It is true that it will be up to the courts to assess this at the judicial level, but at the political level, in pure common sense, it is not credible that you would only go to two meetings. And if you went alone and exclusively to two meetings, it makes me worse for your absolute passivity to fight corruption in your party. However, you did worry about meeting Mr Bárcenas in 2010. He found it very reasonable that Mr. Bárcenas could have an official car. And while Mrs. De Cospedal in 2009 said that Mr. Bárcenas should resign, you had Mr. Bárcenas as Senator, despite the fact that the Supreme Court had granted a supplication, for another seven months. Why is that concern for Mr Bárcenas that you do not have to explain to the citizens of this country? I finish, because we have this time limit. The credibility of politics requires telling the truth to citizens on such serious issues as corruption. You, who always boast of your sense of state - a sense of state that the Socialist Party has - do not do like other presidents who in the days of Banca Catalana got involved in the flags to cover up corruption. You come here now and you are involved in the big problems that Spain has, the problems of terrorism, the problems of Catalonia, in order not to face your omissions in the fight against corruption. [[Applauds]] Because I believe that Spain is experiencing difficult times, because I believe that Spain needs a credible president, a president who gives explanations and does not do what you have done here today, giving us a lesson in administrative law, I ask you to assume your responsibilities. You're stuck in La Moncloa. He made a second election in this country because, although you did not accept the commission of the head of state, you did not let Pedro Sánchez be president of the government... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u9	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u10	...and if there had to be a third election, Mr. Rajoy, you wouldn't have cared either. You well entrenched in La Moncloa, we don't know why; maybe we have the right to believe that so that cases of corruption don't come out. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u11	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u12	For all this, and I will finish - thank you, Madam President - I will ask you to assume political responsibilities. I am going to refer to what the secretary general of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, Pedro Sánchez, has said: Dismiss yourself for dignity, because that will be very good for Spain... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u13	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u14	... to face these serious problems of terrorism, of violation of the legal order in Catalonia and - where the Socialist Party will always be, the first - in defense of rights, freedoms and in the fight against corruption, that struggle that you are not doing. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr. Iglesias Turrión has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u16	Thank you, Madam President. We don't have to!, Barcelona and Catalonia shouted to the world, and we join that cry of universal dignity. Mr. Mariano Rajoy, listening to your speech would give the impression that for you - for you - corruption is not an important issue or is not a current one. I've heard spokespersons from your party say sometimes that you feel harassed. You see, those who feel harassed by corruption are the Spanish citizens, because corruption has a very clear translation; corruption costs Spanish citizens a lot of money and results in citizens having worse public services, worse police, worse hospitals and worse schools. Therefore, believe me, Mr Rajoy, if I tell you that corruption is a major problem in our country. [[Applauds]] And I am not happy to say that you, as President of the People's Party and as President of the Government, are the most responsible politician for corruption in Spain. You had to go to the National Court. The international image of our country by seeing the President of the Government enter through the back door to avoid journalists and sitting in the position of a judicial secretary does not deserve it by the citizens of this country. [[Applauds]] You have assumed here today that you have talked a lot about corruption. Look, we've asked you a lot of questions about corruption and you've rarely answered us. You don't like to talk about this; you talk about this because the courts are asking for it or because the political opposition is demanding it, not because you have given your face to responding to the serious problems of corruption affecting our country, and let me tell you one thing: you have had to come here today not only because the political opposition has asked you to do so, but because your budgetary partners have understood that the issue was important enough for you to have to appear here today. If even your budget partners have not supported you in this, I think you have reason to assume that corruption is a first-class issue that you cannot hide from and that you will never be able to hide from, Mr Rajoy. [[Applauds]] I do not intend to argue, we are not here today to have a debate; you have to appear and you have to explain, and that is why I will confine myself to asking you a number of questions, namely six. I bring them ready, I will not hand them to you to prevent the gentlemen of your bench from saying that we are looking for a photo; we will send them to you through the services of the Chamber and I only ask you to answer the six questions. I have heard your spokesmen boast that the format designed by the Presidency favored you. Perfect, you will have time to study those questions and to answer them calmly, which is what you are here for: not to debate with the opposition but to answer your questions. Before I ask you the questions, I want to explain something you may not have understood, and that is why you are here, why we have asked for this appearance. It follows from your intervention that you do not understand why you are here. Look, you made a statement at the National Court that generated a lot of doubts. You had to answer nothing less than for the illegal financing of your party, which is legally accredited. It has been judicially accredited that its party illegally financed several electoral campaigns and judicially accredited that the resources of this funding came from illegal donations from large-scale entrepreneurs, habitual recipients of public contracts. This everyone knows, and their intervention in the National Audience could be summed up in one sentence: I knew nothing. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] In that sentence you are recognizing that the facts occurred, you simply say in the National Court that you did not know him. I quote literally: I have never heard of illegal financing and I have never dealt with the party's economic affairs. You don't deny the facts, you refuse to know them. Well, that's why you're here, and there are basically two possible conclusions today. One, you convince us and we believe you; we believe that you did not know anything, and therefore we have come to the conclusion that you are incompetent, because being a leader of the People's Party since 1989 and President of the Government since the 2011 elections only one incompetent might not know what was happening in your party. [[Applauds]] Or, two, you don't convince us and we'll keep thinking you're lying. And if we continue to think that you are lying - here in the Commission, where you need it - we will continue to ask you for accountability and accountability. Let's go with the questions. Speaking of Barcenes and his papers, you sent the famous text message in the spirit of knowing for weeks that Mr.Bárcenes had illegal money in Switzerland. First question, very simple: Why did you do it? You will acknowledge with me that it is quite strong that the President of the Government of a country sends a message of encouragement to those who have illegal accounts in Switzerland and the President knows it. According to the detailed, thorough and written - of fist and letter - papers of Luis Bárcenas, to whom you appointed treasurer of the party, you received money in B. You begin to appear in the annotations in 1997, with half-yearly payments of 2.1 million pesetas or quarterly of 1050 000 pesetas, which from 2002 on will pass to your equivalent in euros: 12 600 euros semi-annual or 6300 euros quarterly. Payments run until 2008. Second question: Do you recognize those payments that appear in the accounts of former treasurer Luis Bárcenas, whom you named treasurer of the party? From your appearance at the National Audience to today we have been aware of a video in which you detail the accounts of an election campaign, accounts you said you did not know at the National Audience. Third question: When did you lie, Mr Rajoy, when you detailed the costs of the campaign or at the National Court when you refused to know the costs of that campaign? [[Applauds]] Regarding Box B of the People's Party, Box B of the People's Party is a proven fact, as stated by Judge Pablo Ruz, prosecutors Sabadell and Nicolás, and researchers carrying other branches of the investigations of the Gürtel, the Punica or Lezo. I quote a paragraph from Mr Ruz's order: The PP - literal quote - was used from various sources of financing outside the legal economic circuit, which allowed to operate, for at least eighteen years investigated, with several systems of accounts that recorded financial flows of inflows and outflows of money outside the official accounts declared by the party and presented to the Court of Auditors, operating the said accounts in the form of parallel accounts, cash boxes or B boxes. Since 1989 you have been part of the leadership of the PP and since then you have ascended, on 2 October 2004 you are elected president of the PP and in the 2011 elections you were elected president of the government. Fourth question, Mr Rajoy: In all this time, at what precise moment did you learn about the illegal financing of the People's Party? I hope you don't tell me you heard from the press. You stated in the National Audience - literal quote -: The important thing is to have good collaborators. I quote some names: Ana Mato, Rodrigo Rato, Esperanza Aguirre, José Manuel Soria. Fifth question: Do you consider the people I have just mentioned to be good collaborators? In conclusion, Mr Rajoy, I will tell you that I do not believe that you have been particularly enriched even though you may have been able to collect extra money. The problem of overpayments is not what you have been able to enrich yourself, that it is already scandalous, the problem of overpayments is that they are an indispensable mechanism of corruption, and I think, Mr Rajoy, that you knew this and that it seemed normal to you; that it seemed normal for a party to be financed by illegal donations from large entrepreneurs, and with those donations it paid for electoral campaigns and paid out for the painful political activity of its leaders, that they could not live up to their public salaries and that they needed an extra in B. This seemed normal to you, as it seemed normal to them to compensate donors with administrative concessions. Do you know why it seemed normal to them? Because that for a long time was normal in Spanish politics. [[Applauds]] Sixth and last question: When you say, Mr Rajoy, that you knew nothing of all this, do you think from your heart that citizens believe you? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u17	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u18	Thank you, President. I join the rest of the speakers in thanking all the Spaniards for the support we have received from the Barcelonans. As a Barcelonan, I would like to thank all the Spaniards, all of you, all of the State Security Forces and Corpses and all of the countries that have joined in solidarity with our country after that terrorist attack. Let us all be together at least in this to defend our freedoms and our model of coexistence. [[Applauds]] In Citizens we are convinced that Mr Rajoy has to explain the corruption of his party and the possible involvement of his person and his accounts in the illegal financing of the People's Party. And that is why, as we take very seriously the fight against corruption, instead of a meeting of Mr Rajoy, which is what we have had today - not to mention the Gürtel, not to mention corruption, not to mention financing - we think that the best way to make parliamentarianism and serve the Spaniards was to create a commission of inquiry into the illegal financing of the People's Party; just as we did, by the way, in Catalonia with the illegal financing of Convergence, just as was done with the training courses, in Andalusia, of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, Mrs Robles. [[Rumors]] Therefore, here we have also created the Commission to investigate, because corruption has affected the People's Party, the Congress, the Socialist Party... Thirty years of bipartisanship have given rise to a great deal of corruption, and it must be investigated at parliamentary level. But since we took the second problem very seriously for the Spaniards, we did not want a meeting of Mr Rajoy, who ended up talking about other issues that do not affect the issue we had to talk about today. You knew that. [[Noting the seats of the Socialist and People's Parliamentary Groups]] There are some who are shocked: Mr Rajoy has not spoken the word Gürtel. But what were they expecting? That Mr. Rajoy would come here and tell the truth, in this format, without questions or obligation to tell it? If you have perhaps not told the truth either in the courts or in the Commission, will you say it at a rally? How are you gonna say it at a rally? [[Applauds]] Therefore, if you have not told the truth so far, let us go to the Commission of Inquiry where Mr Rajoy has an obligation, under oath - and under possible offence, Mr Rajoy - to tell the truth in this House. That is the format to which you have to go, to the Committee of Inquiry; indeed, Mr Rajoy, the Committee of Inquiry which you have tried to prevent. Do you know why they didn't? Because, even though you don't have a word, you don't have enough seats to stop it. [[Applauds]] You have no word, you do not keep your word, but you have no seats to prevent it, and that is why Citizens sought the support of this House for this Commission to be launched. That is why you will have to go, Mr Rajoy, to the Committee of Inquiry at the request of Citizens to answer all the questions that Members are asking under oath, and not at a rally... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u19	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u20	...like the one you gave us today. We'd like to talk about reforms too. You said, Mr Rajoy, that you like to talk about reforms rather than reproaches. Well, Mr Rajoy, reform requires two things: legitimacy and winning. And you do not have the legitimacy to fight corruption because you are suspected of corruption, because your party is accused, because they have embargoed seats, because you are ultimately with a party with different cases of corruption that affect at the national level, but above all you do not want to make reforms. We want to bring here the suppression of strangulations and you drag your feet. You have already sought a thousand excuses, you and, by the way, the Socialist Party and We can. I hope that when Citizens this autumn bring the reform to suppress the outbursts - that privilege of politicians to go to special courts - you will support it. Don't be afraid to stop getting hit, Mr. Rajoy. Support that reform, support what you have committed to, fulfil your word at least once. The second reform we are going to propose, Mr Rajoy, this autumn: a change in the Electoral Law - that is also regeneration -; that the deputies be chosen directly by the citizens, not only by the parties; that there are open and unlocked lists; that the vote of the citizens is equally valid throughout Spain. I hope that the members of Podemos and the Socialist Party - who have not supported it in thirty years - will change their minds and support a reform of the Electoral Law. I hope to have the Socialist Party that for thirty years, with the PP, has prevented a change in the Electoral Law in Spain. [[Noting the seats of the Socialist and People's Parliamentary Groups]] I hope that you will support the electoral reform that Citizens will present in this House. However, let me also announce that, as you do not have a word but do not have seats to prevent reforms, Citizens next Monday will present the law limiting the terms of office of the President of the Government, Mr Rajoy. We are going to present the law on limitation of mandates in this House. [[Applauds]] That law of limitation of mandates, as they do in other countries - I don't think the United States is very wrong in limiting the mandates of presidents or other democratic regimes -... [[Rumors and Protests]] Don't worry, don't get nervous. Now it's my turn to speak to me, gentlemen of the PP. [[Rumors]] I'm going on. That law of limitation of mandates will come out with the support of the PP or without the support of the PP, because you - I repeat - do not have enough seats to veto the necessary reforms, and for that I address Mr. Iglesias and Mrs. Robles. I hope to count on their parties to pass the law of limitation of mandates, because it is not worth making rallies or counter-mittens in this rostrum and then prevent the democratic reforms that Spain needs. So I hope that Podemos and the PSOE will join the law of limitation of mandates that we will present on Monday and this country, for the first time in democracy, limits to eight years, to two mandates, the mandates of the President of the Government. It is a democratic advance for our country and I announce that we will present it next... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u21	One second. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u22	They get more nervous with reform proposals than with criticism. It's curious. [[Applauds]] This autumn, what we have already recorded in the summer, Mr Rajoy, will come into this House: the law on the reform of the prosecutor's office. I hope you support her. But I say the same to you: if you do not support the law so that the prosecution is not a governmental body, it will come out with the support of the majority of the House. I hope that the People's Party will commit itself and prefer that the prosecutor, rather than the President of the Government, be chosen by this House. I hope that you, rather than a general prosecutor of the Government, will finally want a general prosecutor of the State in Spain. That is why this law will come to this House and I hope that the People's Party will support it, but if you do not support it it will also come out because you do not have a majority, so we will try to make reforms from Parliament, even if the government does not want to, even if Mr Rajoy does not like it. That is the novelty of this House. The People's Party had an absolute majority and all this did not go ahead - or when the Socialist Party did - because they did not want to. The Socialist Party has spent thirty years supporting the prosecutor's election by the government. I hope that you will change your mind, Mrs Robles, and now support that it is the House, and not only when you are in the opposition, because it is very easy to criticize the PP when it appoints the Attorney General of the State and to believe that when you do it you are doing well. Well, look, it's bad both ways. [[Mrs Robles Fernández says words that are not perceived.-Applause]] Therefore, this autumn we will also vote for this reform in this House, and I hope that the majority will be supported so that the prosecutor's office will finally be depoliticised and the public prosecutor-general will work for all Spaniards. On the other hand, the anti-corruption law is under way - it has already been dealt with in this House, it is in the Commission. What are we talking about? To protect whistleblowers from corruption, Mr. Rajoy. The whistleblowers, not Mr Bárcenas, but Mr Bárcenas' whistleblowers, the whistleblowers of corruption, the whistleblowers of public contracts, who are playing their jobs, even with harassment, in many public places, such as officials, public servants, secretaries in the municipalities, are alarmed that some are exercising corruption in the public domain. Those must be protected, not as you have done. In the Community of Madrid the People's Party has vetoed, banned the implementation of this law, but we have already dealt with it here. I hope that you, at least in Congress, will allow whistleblowers to be protected from corruption. We have also dealt with the abolition of political pardons in that law. What do I mean? That it's not worth amnestying, that it's not worth rewarding, that it's not worth taking away from them what a judge decides for the corrupt. We want the pardoned to stop being pardoned for political corruption in this House at last. The Socialist Party and the People's Party have pardoned thousands of people, in democracy, already tried by the courts and, with many of them, cases of corruption. [[Mr Hernando Fraile pronounces words that are not perceived]] Yes, Mr. Hernando, thousands. Look at the record of pardons that have been made by your party and the Socialist Party. We do not want people who have been convicted of corruption to be pardoned; we ultimately want justice to be decided by a judge and not by the Government in rewarding or amnestying the corrupt. So I hope that this House will support the abolition of the pardons that Citizens brought a few months ago and that they will vote. As I'm putting them on the table, you fight corruption in two ways. One of them is not covering up corruption, which is what Mr Rajoy does, covering up corruption in his party. Honestly, I didn't expect Mr. Rajoy to turn himself in here and confess guilt to everything that the People's Party, his party, has done. If anyone expected this plenary to serve anything, he has already seen that it has served little in that sense, although there is a Commission of Inquiry in progress, which is the place where he will have to account, but at least let us put on the table the reforms that the Spaniards expect from this House: suppression of forbearances, limitation of mandates, new electoral law, suppression of pardons, protection of complainants, reform of the prosecutor's office, reform of the Constitutional Court. How do you think we're going to fight corruption if we don't start the alarms of justice again, if we don't protect those who report corruption? This is what we do in politics, proposing serious debates in the Committee of Inquiry, and proposing reforms in this House with our parliamentary group. This is not going to take buses and turn around or put up stickers or insult the political rival; this is going to reform Spanish democracy so that citizens can trust it again. So we, from Citizens, do not want shows or shows, we want democratic reforms, we want to legislate, we want to improve our democracy. We are convinced that the People's Party has no remedy, it is a party that will never - nor will Mr Rajoy - face the corruption that he has had, but at least this House - which is not the People's Party, which is an alternative parliamentary majority - put a thread to the needle and let's finish this legislature by reforming Spanish democracy so that the Spaniards can trust our democracy a little more and see that at least this House has done work for them and not just: And you and mutual accusations. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u23	Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to thank all the Members of this Parliament for the solidarity shown towards the victims, which we all share, and also for the solidarity shown towards the people of Catalonia. In particular, I would like to thank the Spanish citizen for the solidarity shown - I repeat - towards the people of Catalonia. Could anyone believe that Mr Rajoy here today would apologize for corruption?, could anyone expect him to recognize the evil caused to society on account of the corruption of the People's Party?, how could we aspire to assume responsibilities, for example by resigning, if he didn't even want to appear? Because the citizenship of the Spanish state as a whole has to know that if it is here today, it is because we brought it from the ear, because it no longer has an absolute majority, if not, it would not have appeared. What can be expected of a person who, having been deputy secretary of the People's Party, secretary of the People's Party, president of the People's Party and having coordinated an election campaign, did not resign when he learned that his treasurer had a bank account in Switzerland with 39 million euros. Far from putting all the evidence at the disposal of justice, he allowed the luxury of sending an SMS to his treasurer saying, as everyone knows, 'Luis, be strong'. What can be expected of someone who silenced the truth before the National Court and who even seemed to laugh at the judges. Mr Rajoy, if you do not ask for forgiveness, if you do not tell the truth, if you do not acknowledge the wrong done, if you do not take responsibility for the fraudulent financing of the People's Party and for the turbulent relations with large economic groups, which are the ones who corrupt the will and buy from politicians, you will be acknowledging that you are willing to sacrifice the quality of democracy when not the same democratic system to save yourself and to remain in power. Mr Rajoy, in Germany a defense minister resigned because she had partially plagiarized the doctoral thesis. Was it a Germanic extravagance? No, it was a moral requirement; the moral requirement that makes citizens unite and feel represented by their Governments. This is a democratic duty that strengthens governments and matures their societies. To see if you know, Mr Rajoy, it is not the prosperous countries that can afford a high level of morality and transparency; it is just the opposite, it is the countries with high standards of public ethics that end up being prosperous countries and end up guaranteeing a quality of life and a high standard of living to their citizens. [[Applauds]] But in the Kingdom of Spain, rulers like you cling to power against wind and tide, in the worst circumstances. It is true that their governments seem strong, it is true that their governments peck, but only peck. Why are they hitting? By the roundness of your statements, by the pride of your messages for 'patriotherism' - and I say 'patriotherism' because patriotism is something much more important - that you distill, by the control you exercise of the media and by the support you receive from very powerful economic sectors to which you serve. In fact, their governments are not strong, they are weak; it is a weak country from the point of view of social cohesion, with a huge distance between the rulers and the rulers, with governments that despise the difficulties of citizenship, Governments supported by political parties such as theirs, the People's Party, the party that has the most judicial causes opened up by corruption in Europe, political parties that, precisely, by corrupt people, can cling to power. For this reason, today, we denounce once again - hey! - in defence of democracy, that is, in self-defence, the systemic corruption of the 1978 regime, corroded by those who have used corruption as a tool. First, tool to access power. Illegal financing of the People's Party to run for office in elections. Once it has reached power to, secondly, manage it, complicit in corruption with large economic groups, banks and companies. Should we talk about Mr Florentino Pérez and Castor? Should we talk about the rescue of the radial highways at the service of banks that buy politicians? Achieve power, manage power and, finally, remain in power. How? Prostitute institutions. For example, the Constitutional Court. Mr Rajoy, your currency is to remain in power at all costs, which also forces you to be opportunistic. You are forced to take advantage of the fact that widespread corruption has led to millions of people feeling away from public institutions even if there are millions of people who think that all parties are equal and that all politicians are equal; that is, the normalization of corruption plays in their favor. In fact, it has to be recognized, eight million people have voted for it. That's why I don't see you worried today, it's true, I don't see you worried, nor do I just see you concerned about coming up here to tell the truth. Moreover, I am convinced that you are convinced that you will leave here in rositas. It doesn't matter that Gürtel was corrupting the administration. Do you know why they don't care? Because they were in another operation, they were in the operation of expanding the mother of all corruptions. Do you know what the mother of all corruption is? The corruption of the truth, the corruption that makes it possible to make believe that selling arms to countries that systematically violate human rights or promote jihadism is a legitimate commercial activity. [[Applauds]] That same corruption of the truth that has corrupted the Constitutional Court by delaying the renewal of the judges with expired mandates, appointing members of the People's Party as president, violating the Spanish Constitution in its article 152.2 to leave Catalonia in defense, charging itself with the status of autonomy. And you, Mr. Rajoy, call yourself a constitutionalist? Do you say that you respect the Spanish Constitution and that, therefore, you could not and did not want to authorize the referendum, when today Catalonia is governed by a statute of autonomy resulting from the prevarication - I repeat, the fruit of the pre-va-ri-ca-tion - of the Constitutional Court? Mr Rajoy, I think you have an elastic concept, somewhat rotten and very corrupt of the term constitutionalism. You have no doubt that refusing to take responsibility will lead you to greater corruption, unfortunately, and worse, also with regard to Catalonia. Because the Catalan institutions today already assume - like their society - that the Spanish institutions have no right or moral authority in Catalonia. The majority of the population perceives them as corrupt, unable to tune in with the wishes and hopes of the citizenry. We only receive - the Spanish press is the example of all this - insults, atavistic prejudices, gross caricatures and appeals to violence, and threats. They only have the strength to impose power. Indeed, they only have the violence, the violence of the corrupt, the violence of those who believe they are legitimized to deny the democratic will of a defenceless people. Mr Rajoy, in Catalonia there are thousands and thousands of children who sing a song that is very popular. You know why? Because it is the song of Club Super3, a children's club that has the triple of partners that the Barcelona Football Club. At one point a chorus of the song says: Uh! Oh! We don't have to! / being brave is much better than being strong., being brave is better than being strong. Well, that's what I said. Like the song, Mr Rajoy, listen to me, we choose courage, democratic courage to vote on October 1. We leave you the force, the brute and corrupt force. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u25	Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, also on behalf of the Basque Group, our solidarity with the families of the victims, with the citizens of Barcelona and Catalonia. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to recall the commitment made not long ago, in particular on 11 May, just over three months ago, to set up the ad hoc Committee of Inquiry, the object of which was, literally, the alleged illegal financing of the People's Party. It was a question of obtaining information through an exceptional and more agile procedure than the rigid corset of the usual parliamentary channels, such as this one we are in today. Little could then have been suspected that two of its strongest supporters, the second and third parties of the House, were going to request a parliamentary appearance of the President no less than in plenary. What had happened? Was there any unknown data until then that had come to light beyond the evasive statement of the President of the Government at his appearance as a witness at the National Court? No, none of this has happened. So, why does an appearance of the president in plenary, comfortable for him, with short times and assessed interventions? In my opinion, rather than testing the government, we wanted to test the Socialist Party and its newly elected secretary general on the part of Podemos. He fights cocks, but if the cocks want to climb the stick, it will not be a chicken that prevents him from being loaded with responsibility. I'm afraid we're not going to know any new information in the process we're dealing with today, beyond the conspicuous mutual reproach between parties and some uplifting phrase. Even if the president intervenes behind the popular spokesman - what is to be seen -, we will have had our ten minutes of glory per game, a money spent unnecessarily on transfers to the taxpayer's account and nothing more. It is clear that the People's Party must explain everything about the Gürtel case and box B; it owes it to the country and it owes it to its voters. Everything that surrounds members of the People's Party with important institutional and organizational responsibilities must be clarified. A country that wants to be taken seriously cannot and must not avoid giving birth to such a serious matter. In times when, more than ever before, citizens, but also political actors, demand transparency in management, issues of the recent past cannot be left in the dark, and the facts already proven, beyond new information that appears in the future, are of such gravity that it makes it inevitable to assume criminal and political responsibilities. In this sense, it would be good to clarify and recognize, as appears in the judicial investigation, the existence of a B-box or if your party benefited from opaque and unchecked donations of money, why and who destroyed the hard drives of the computers at your headquarters and, also, what Mr Rajoy has done to correct or prevent such practices within your party, beyond the general legislation that he has been able to do in Parliament. There is no doubt that an answer to these questions must be given; the President of the Government, as President of his party, will have to do something in this regard. And so far for months there have only been evasive, no light has been provided from within, and that is certainly worrying. In view of the attitudes, I very much doubt that it is this Parliament that can clarify all this information. We have - let us say it clearly - neither the means nor the research capacity required for this. Without previous judicial conclusions, it is difficult to draw objective conclusions from a political point of view. It is true that there are some irrefutable indications. Whether they are sufficient or not to demand responsibilities is a questionable matter, but it is not so that today there is no sufficient consensus or parliamentary force in the House, and that is why Parliament continues to turn its back on the loss by acting as it does. If there is no willingness to offer answers directly from politics, without the courts of justice it would be impossible to unravel what happened. The judges have the means and the capacity to make a reliable account of the facts, but in Spain we find ourselves with an exasperately slow justice, except when the Constitutional Court has to decide on Catalonia corroborating that the Constitutional Court is not part of the judicial system, but rather a constitutional political body. A slow justice, which is a real cheese with holes even with regard to summary secrets, which makes the dimes and direct you eternal in the media. This makes this slowness unfailingly ineffective. We live in this way, in a sort of permanent provisionality about the existence of criminal conduct and acts, which contributes to creating a politically sparse climate, land paid for the confrontation and the massive headline. Processes can be complicated but must not be eternalized. It is a problem for the country's governance and creates unnecessary uncertainty for everyone and for the party under investigation itself, even more so when some formations present false allegations knowingly as a form of political action, a practice in which the PP has also contributed. Because neither is it worth embarrassing the playground, nor is it worth embarrassing the playground. The reaction of the People's Party to the Congressional Commission of Inquiry into its possible illegal finances has been a counteroffensive that consists in the creation, on the basis of its absolute majority, of another Commission in the Senate to investigate the rest of the parties. It makes no sense or is acceptable. "Let every stick hold its candle," said Mrs. De Cospedal years ago. To pretend to give the feeling that financial irregularities in political parties were widespread is neither true nor fair. The gravity of the cases surrounding the People's Party makes it an obvious exception. For years, on the basis of proven facts, the PP has enjoyed higher funding than the rest of the parties, and thus an advantage in the electoral process, thanks to the fact that the income limits imposed by the law have been well known, a law that to a large extent pushed itself as it faced the rest with the alleged lack of commitment to be rigorous in terms of party spending. - I haven't forgotten, I lived very closely as rapporteur. That hypocritical attitude is simply unacceptable, and pretending to mud on others will only contribute to further discrediting politics and its institutions. Neither the indiscriminate use of empty parliamentary procedures that use one or the extension of personal barriers to others, which the others claim, will contribute to present and future governability, but I assure you that it will contribute to citizen disbelief. You will see, I do not know if the President knows more than he has said, if he is going to intervene again in this plenary and he is going to tell something new, but I fear that this plenary procedure will mean only that, an insulting procedure to the search for an ephemeral cover in the media tomorrow. It will continue... Nothing more and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, which is holding its turn in this turn.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make my first words, like the rest of the speakers, of recognition to the victims of the attacks in Barcelona and Cambrils, of recognition of the actions of the police forces, especially the Catalan Police, and of gratitude for the many expressions of solidarity that we have found in all of you, in all the public administrations and in the Government of the State itself, on behalf of the Government of Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen, the greatest act of normality that we could do after the attack on 17 August was to normally hold this plenary session. Some spokesman for the People's Party has come to say, and the president has hinted, that there was no point in us discussing these issues today with the terrorist attack. Precisely, democratic normality is that groups exercise our role of political control. What happened when the President of the Government appeared before the courts was not a minor issue. Not every day and in all countries the Presidents of Governments appear before a court to account for the illegal financing of their party. And given the answers given by the President of the Government at that appearance, it is clear that the stupor and perplexity that this caused in public opinion and in the majority of Members of this House forced the President to appear. The President should not be afraid to appear as often as it takes in this House to give explanations when opposition groups claim it. It's democratic normality. Certainly, we must allow justice to go its way and the criminal and civil consequences of the Gürtel case to take place at the time. Mr Esteban rightly said that it is also exasperating among citizens the slowness with which justice works. If I remember correctly, this whole story began in 2007 with a denunciation by some mayors of Majadahonda. Ten years, and we have not resolved the criminal and civil consequences of Gürtel, nor has any political responsibility been assumed by anyone in the People's Party in this matter, because this is the fundamental issue. Are political responsibilities assumed for what has happened at Gürtel? Moreover, in the appearance of the President of the Government in court, what is shocking is that someone who has been in the leadership of the People's Party for nearly twenty years is unable to say anything other than that he knew nothing. That, Mr Rajoy, in political terms is absolutely entrepreneurship, and what we are demanding from the parliamentary groups today is that responsibilities must be assumed. What is happening, Mr Rajoy, is that the People's Party has very little capacity to assume responsibilities. The Commission of Inquiry finds that Mr Fernández Díaz, from the Ministry of the Interior, orchestrated a plot to build false evidence against political leaders, and nothing happens. AENA sinks this summer in Barcelona, and no one assumes any responsibility. The House reprimands Minister Montoro, and happiness. The House reprimands Minister Catalá, and nothing happens. Mr Rajoy, in democracy responsibilities must be assumed. Nothing ever happens is the expression of a weak democracy, of a democracy that does not believe in the functioning of its own institutions. Mr Rajoy, with regard to the Catalan question, your political attitude is also the same. The origin of what is happening and what is going to happen in the next few weeks in Catalonia has to do with the collection of signatures that your party favored in relation to the statute, and no one has assumed any responsibility. Millions of Catalans have been demonstrating since September 11, 2012, and it seems that nothing is happening. More than two million vote on November 9, 2014, and it seems that nothing happens. Presidents Mas and Puigdemont ask him to dialogue, and nothing happens. Mr Rajoy, tancredism, as an attitude, can be useful in the personal to avoid political wear - and so we will see - but it never serves to address the political challenges that societies have. Mr Rajoy, I am sure that if what we have lived with Gürtel since 2007 until now had been lived in any other European country, the leader of the political party that was at the head of that organisation would have taken responsibility, he would have taken a step back to allow his real political force to opt for regeneration. You didn't do it. Surely, in the Catalan disaffection that we have experienced in these years, issues such as Gürtel also have much to do with it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u29	I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today, without precedent, I will give Mr. Maillo and Mr. Rajoy the reason. Mr. Maillo was right, we seem extraterrestrial, because we added the votes to make Mr. Rajoy appear, to tell us what we already know -'twenty years ago'; 'it was Lapuerta'; 'I told Esperanza'; 'how good the economy is'-, but then he will go quietly to eat. I insist, we have added the votes for you to appear, but we are not able to add them for what is truly important, to send it to the opposition. [[Applauds]] That's right. And Mr. Rajoy, I have to admit, you're right. Arithmetically it is possible to bring him here to talk about corruption, but arithmetically it is impossible to make him go to the opposition. Mr Rajoy, while you have been president, deputy secretary general, responsible for political campaigns, your party has had sixty-five open cases of corruption, hundreds and hundreds of imputed PP public offices, your own imputed party. That's just why I should have quit long ago. But there is another powerful reason why you should resign, why you resign in other countries, and it is because you lie. He lies generously, copiously. In your judicial statement you said that you did not deal with accounting, that you dealt only with political issues. The video of the 2000 election campaign shows that you did know income and expenditure, which is normal in an election campaign; otherwise it would be irresponsible. In the United States they would have already opened an impeachment procedure, and with much more reason than Mr Bill Clinton. And another one. You said that it was you who separated Correa and, instead, in the 2011 autonomic elections accepted, celebrated, that nine involved in the Gürtel and Brugal cases were on the lists of the Valencian PP, including former President Camps. Didn't you know who was behind the Gürtel cases? By the way, as you are going to go to Valencia next week, let's see if you announce once and for all a new system of financing just for Valencians, as you should have done already, or that in the 2018 budgets we will be on average investments, and then fulfill it. I'm done. We must be extraterrestrials, Mr Maillo, so that, with an imputed party, a party that destroys evidence, a party that has been financed in black and a president who has looked elsewhere, will continue to rule this country. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today, Mr Rajoy, I would like to remind you of all the cases of corruption associated with or linked to your party, but it will be impossible; I only have two minutes and I would need at least two days to summarize your six years of presidency, your six years of corruption. Corruption is the extras of your party mates, the envelopes of black money, the accounting in B and the 'Luis, be strong' from your own mobile phone, Mr. Rajoy. Corruption is that your party has dressed up in Gürtel suits and you have not had the dignity or decency to even apologize, even though it was through a plasma. Corruption is their Púnica siblings, their 3% commissions and their money laundering. Corruption is Operation Catalonia, its plot of espionage and dirty war against the Catalan people paid with the money of all, with the money of the public arks. A strong brotherly embrace to the Catalan people, before, today and always. [[Applauds]] Corruption is the spolio of Bankia and Caja Madrid, are the black cards. Corruption is that we do not know if the Spain that you govern, and in which Basques and Basques are trapped, lives more in a Berlanga film or in a new delivery of El Padrino. Corruption is that in the street Genoa the hard drives disappear at hammer stroke and the papers of their treasury at crusher stroke. Corruption is the omertà, the complicit silence with which you protect each other. Corruption is that the PP, in the eyes of more and more jurists and much of the citizenry, is more a criminal organization than a political party. Mr Rajoy, corruption accompanies your steps, but as far as we can see, it does not reveal you at all. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Euskal Herria Bildu speaking of corruption is an insult to the intelligence of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] In any case, Spain has many problems and here we are in an absolutely useless plenary and deepening the gap between the citizens and those we call their representatives. I would like to ask a number of questions: how much value will this plenary bring to the judicial process? None. What will be generated as a great revelation of this Plenary? Nothing. How many headlines are going to be generated, beyond party prejudices? None. Who are we going to bore with this plenary? All Spaniards. This is the reality of this House, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, what I would have liked to hear from the people who preceded me in the use of the floor is a little more cautious, because I want to remind you that most of the parties you represent have had and have cases of corruption, and I say this humbly. I encourage you to do what my party has done since its foundation forty years ago. Unión del Pueblo Navarro has been banned from private donations for almost forty years; this makes us openly say that we have had twenty-three years uninterrupted in the outlaw government without any public office, without any judgement or judicial pronouncement for corruption. I would also like to refer in the few seconds to the criticisms that have been made to me by the abstention of the Navarro People's Union from this appearance of the President. I would like to remind you, especially the members of the People's Group, that our electoral agreement is at the investiture of Mr Mariano Rajoy and that our part has already been fulfilled. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let's finish this show so loose, these scripts so predictable and these interpretations so lacking in credibility. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Forum is not going to lend its support to the strategism to force the President of the Government to talk about the Gürtel case, because there are plenty of reasons for legal technique and parliamentary tradition that justify their rejection. I leave aside the consideration of the interest that moves those who, while in Spain there are acts of extraordinary gravity - in the case of the secessionist attempt of Catalonia, promoted illegally and unconstitutionally from its autonomous Parliament - give priority to the holding of a plenary session for the President of the Government to explain himself again and to repeat what he has just witnessed before the court that judges the criminal responsibilities of the same facts, which, moreover, are the subject of investigation by a Commission despised by its own promoters. If the motivation behind Mr Rajoy's appearance to demand political responsibility is his status as president of the People's Party, I remind you that the greatest evidence of systematic corruption in Spain, in the extension of its ramifications and in the economic amount of the damage to the public era, is those relating to the PSOE, the majority of which are also investigated in court. I will not describe the known cases of corruption in the PSOE and the Junta de Andalucia, which represent the stratospheric figure of more than 6 billion euros. [[Rumors]] I will refresh you the memory of what happens in the Asturian branch of the PSOE and in the Administration of the Principality, citing the cases Marea, Fernández Villa, Niemeyer, El Musel or formation of UGT, among others. But while here, in Madrid, explanations are asked of the government, in Asturias the socialist comrades elude them, as in Andalusia. When will we have the opportunity to discuss in this House the political responsibilities of systematic corruption of the PSOE? I fear that never, because certain groups only apply the law of the funnel, the wide mouth for others and the fine for themselves. Feeling very much, Forum is not going to participate in such a game. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u37	I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we canarian nationalists strongly support the fight against corruption. We have fully supported the proposals of all groups in this area, and we believe that further progress will be needed in legislative changes to ensure that this scourge disappears from our society and responds to a widespread demand for citizenship. For example, it was important to approve the draft protection of whistleblowers and many of the proposals put forward by political forces in recent months. We also believe that the judges, prosecutors and security forces who investigate and prosecute such crimes must be strengthened by material, technical and human means. We also believe that political responsibilities should be investigated in the appropriate parliamentary sphere. We also believe that Mr Rajoy, as the most responsible of the People's Party at certain times, after having appeared before the judges as a witness.. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u39	Silence, please; silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u40	... you must appear in this Chamber to give the corresponding explanations, which go beyond the judicial ones. But, having said all this, was today really the day, the hour, the place and the format for that appearance? Do you not think that today the citizens would like us to be, after the biggest attack in this country after the 11th-M, with sixteen dead and one hundred wounded and with an uncertain political drift in Catalonia, making proposals and seeking solutions to these issues? We believe that Mr Rajoy must appear in the Committee of Inquiry set up in this Congress; moreover, as soon as possible, and if he has to return to it at the end, let him return. We believe in justice and we believe in the role of that Commission of Inquiry, but today was not the day. The citizens of this country were more deserving of us as parliamentarians. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, our first words on behalf of New Canarias are of solidarity with the Catalan people, who are the victims of barbarism on this occasion. New Canarias' commitment to the fight against corruption is part of our political action, our institutional action, our concerns and our proposals. It's always been that way, and we're proud of that. Corruption is an evil that corrodes the credibility of political action, including institutional action. The effectiveness in the fight against corruption, therefore, is the issue, and we believe that it lies in the effectiveness and credibility of the police, legal, political actions that are undertaken. We do not know if this is the result of what we are doing here today. New Canarias accepted the Commission Presidency on the alleged irregular financing of the People's Party, and did so in order to overcome a blockade that had taken place in this House and without the slightest enthusiasm, as all those I have had the opportunity to say know, but we have also done so with the utmost responsibility. Therefore, today we have an obligation to say in this House and in this act that it was to give us an opportunity to seek the truth to the extent that it is possible in the political sphere. We have done so to try to issue an opinion that would really be a further contribution in the fight against corruption and in the pursuit of political responsibilities, if we are able to determine them. That is our commitment: working within that Commission to that end, which, I also have to say, is frankly better, but I am sure that what we have heard here today will probably help things to be done differently. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u43	Thank you very much. On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Hernando Fraile has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group I would like to join in the condolences expressed in this House to the victims of the terrorist attacks in Barcelona and Cambrils on 17 August, as well as to express my condemnation to the material and intellectual authors of barbarism, who are solely responsible. I also want to send a message of affection, solidarity and support to the families of the people who have been killed and I wish for a speedy recovery to the many wounded, some of whom are still struggling for their lives today. My group shares his pain and we are at his side. I would also like to highlight the work carried out by the State Security Forces and Corpses, doctors and health assistants, emergency services and all the citizens who have worked together at these difficult times. Our thanks and gratitude to all of them. Ladies and gentlemen, the recent attacks oblige us to live up to the circumstances and to maintain the unity that the Spanish demand. In the fight against terrorism, there are no half inks, whether or not there is. The freedom of the Spanish cannot be half protected, the dignity of the victims cannot be half defended. That is why I am calling again today on all parliamentary groups to join the Anti-Jihadist Pact and to do so without reservations or fissures. [[Applauds]] At the last meeting held at the request of the Minister of the Interior, we launched a positive message of unity in the face of terror. Unity is our greatest strength, but it is not enough to take pictures in the moments of mourning, it is about taking commitments, responsibilities and obligations in the fight against terrorism. At the demonstration in Barcelona, led by his majesty the king, the Democrats condemned terrorism and walked the street of the city in memory of the victims. However, some independenceists manipulated the spirit of the demonstration, forgot to condemn the terrorists and, disrespecting the victims, dedicated themselves to harassing those who defend the unity of Spain. A shame for any good Democrat and a true portrait of the moral indecency of his promoters before all the Spaniards and the rest of the world. [[Applauds]] Some contributed to this with delusional accusations about the sale of weapons, Mr. Iglesias. I wonder if this maneuver served you to pave your way to the secret dinner you had that very night with Mr. Junqueras at a billionaire's house. What a wonderful opportunity for you to fulfill the promise of transparency with which you once again lied to your voters by promising them that their political meetings would be broadcast live and streaming. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] Fortunately, both the Government and the majority of this House will ensure that neither Spain nor national sovereignty, which resides in the Spanish people as a whole, is broken or that the rights of Catalans as well as Spanish and Europeans are violated. I trust that no one in the face of this challenge is mistaken, making up strange legal formulas about what the Spanish nation is, outside our history, our Constitution and the European treaties. Ladies and gentlemen, combating terrorism is today's political priority for the country, and that is precisely what the Government is doing, as the President of the Government demonstrated by attending the Paris Summit last Monday to strengthen the fight against terrorism alongside the leaders of the major powers of the European Union. The terrorism we face today is of a global nature. Before Barcelona and Cambrils, we suffered attacks in Paris, Brussels, Nice, Berlin, St Petersburg, Stockholm and many other cities in the world, such as London, Bali or Nairobi. Also in Madrid were killed 192 people, who deserve our respect and memory, as well as the victims of ETA, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, together we defeat ETA terrorism and also together we will defeat jihadist terrorism. Therefore, I do not think that there is anyone in Spain today that two weeks after the biggest terrorist attack of the last decade, with the independence challenge of the Generalitat de Catalunya, the future of Europe in the air, the recovery of our economy and employment and other issues affecting millions of Spaniards, understands that the priority of this House is to convene an urgent plenary of Members to harass the President of the Government, not for his management at the head of the government, but for some facts that have already been in the hands of justice and which have been explained more than a hundred times. Of course, let us not forget that today the parliamentary opposition seems to be led by Mr. Iglesias with the direct support of the PSOE and tacit of others. Has anything new been seen or met in today's plenary session? Ladies and gentlemen, nothing new under the sun: the usual false accusations, the usual insults and disqualifications and the sentences of those who do not respect court sentences, but act daily as vigilantes. What you are really looking for, ladies and gentlemen, is to stigmatise an honest political party, with more than 800,000 militants, thousands of mayors and councillors in many cities and towns and with responsibilities of government in many autonomous communities and, above all, with many millions of voters that we have won in the last three elections. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] That party is the party that always manages to get Spain out of the hole in which it leaves the left. It is true that in my party there have been unscrupulous people who have filled us with shame, but those have already been expelled, we apologize for this and they are already responding to the courts. I'd like to know what others are waiting for to do the same. What is the purpose of today's plenary if there is already a committee of inquiry against the PP in which the President has asked to appear and so far has not been able to do so because you have prevented it, Mr Rivera? Yeah, don't change yourself. Is it looking for the truth? Ladies and gentlemen, no. The truth is not what some of the speakers determine in the rostrum, it takes a lot of political arrogance to believe that one is always in possession of the truth and the others are always lacking in the truth, Mr Rivera. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the only objective of today and the other days is, as Mr Iglesias said, frankly to throw the People's Party out of the institutions. I suppose Mr Iglesias dreams of being able to do in Spain what his boss, Mr Maduro, is doing in Venezuela: to end freedoms, to imprison dissidents and to dissolve the democratically elected Parliament to set up its Constituent Assembly. [[Laughter]] [[Rumors.-Applause.]] But here, Mr. Churches, gentlemen of Podemos, that's not going to happen. It won't happen. [[Rumors]] In the institutions it is because this is what the Spaniards decide with their votes and not by other paths, without traps or shortcuts. You failed in the motion of censure and today you do so again with this initiative. Justice is established in the courts and not as you do here or have intended to do this morning, you, the vigilantes, the purgers. Mr. Iglesias, you have been millionarily financed by corrupt and criminal tyranny ruling in Venezuela and also in Iran. That is why it is an exercise in political cynicism that comes today to give exemplary elections. You are the one who has to sometimes explain your funding and why you do not denounce human rights violations in those countries. The answer is very clear, you are not free because on you send who pays you. [[Applauds]] But the most incomprehensible thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that the PSOE intends to teach no one lessons. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, you are the only party condemned in Spain for a final sentence of corruption, Mrs Robles. [[Applauds]] The PSOE ranks first in the lamentable ranking of corruption in this country, and not only in Andalusia, as Mr Sánchez intends to use for his internal struggles, but in many other parts of Spain. There are 600 investigators, 240 open court cases, two former PSOE presidents sitting on the bench as defendants, 320 public or former senior public officials with more than 1,000 PSOE-related individuals who are also being investigated for corruption and nothing more and nothing less than €43 billion under suspicion; 4300. If, moreover, Mrs Robles, according to that crack that is your new party spokesman, corruption does not prescribe, do you want to tell me which of you will assume political responsibility for all this? Is he going to do it the one who illegally financed his primary with crowdfunding? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have a problem and it is that your tactic of trying to win in the courts what you lose in the polls is not giving them the desired result. Despite the legion of lawyers to whom you pay in disguised as a private accusation, you have also been exposed this morning when you faked what Mr. Ruz's car was and what Mr. Ruz's car says at the National Court. [[Applauds]] You, ladies and gentlemen, are losing your judgment and that is why you are getting nervous looking here for a parallel trial with defamations and lies. Ladies and gentlemen, corruption is already being fought effectively and is being tried in the courts, and thanks to the reforms promoted by the People's Party in the previous parliamentary term - in which some were not here - Spain today has new legal and criminal instruments that have allowed the Administration of Justice to bring to light and expose many previously hidden cases. Today, these cases are investigated, prosecuted and now the one who makes the pay and has to return to the last cent. By the way, with reforms that you did not support at the time. By the way, I would like to comment on a matter of interest drawn from the appearances in the Senate Committee of Inquiry, which we have had to create because everyone here conjured up so that you were not investigated in your accounts, and that is that all the managers of the various political formations have determined that the political leaders have no responsibility or are aware of the economic affairs of your party. So why is the PP being asked what is not asked of others? Why, if Mr Rivera, Mr Iglesias or Mr Sánchez are not responsible for the irregularities detected by the Court of Auditors, do they have to be responsible for the People's Party? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, what some cannot bear is that for five years now there has been a clean, honest and honest PP government that, with the support of millions of Spaniards and the reforms implemented, is taking Spain out of the crisis and maintaining dialogue and agreement in this House with those who really care about the problems of the Spaniards and not their own interests, as we have shown by approving the 2017 budgets or the 2018 spending ceiling. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is growing and creating more jobs than the rest of our partners in the European Union, and we maintain our public services, our health, education or dependence. With the effort and confidence of the Spaniards we have been able to move forward and all this has been thanks to a party like the People's Party, thanks to a government like the one presided over by Mariano Rajoy and thanks to a president like Mariano Rajoy, an impeccable person who today, seeing what we have seen in this House, remains a guarantee for Spain and for the Spaniards. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u45	I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few brief comments on some of the speeches that have taken place, trying not to repeat concepts. I think it is good that some things remain in the Journal of Sessions. The objective of this appearance, as you know very well, was to explain why I do not assume or refuse - exactly that is the expression used - to assume political responsibilities over certain actions of my party. As I pointed out in my first speech, we have already discussed here on countless occasions on this matter - this is the 53rd opportunity when I rise to this rostrum or answer from my seat to questions relating to the matter before us - and we will continue to do so, as I have told you before, whenever you deem it appropriate and convenient. The reason I'm here today, as explained to us and tried to argue by some, is that I had to testify as a witness at the National Court. I must therefore answer two questions: the first, to which I referred in the previous speech, why I refuse to assume political responsibilities and, the second, I have to explain my situation as a witness at the National Court, which I am now going to do. I will not repeat - because, I insist, I have already made this clear in my first speech - what political responsibilities are, but there are some things I would like to repeat again. First of all, I am not opposed to political responsibilities being demanded of me. Secondly, it is one of the most important functions of this House. Thirdly, as I have pointed out before, the power to demand political responsibility is yours alone, and this is very reasonable because if you choose, as always happens, the President of the Government and give him your confidence, you too have the right to withdraw your confidence. As you all know, I have explained before, that was not the case on other occasions, it caused many dysfunctions when it comes to governing and today modern constitutions, and among them the Spanish constitution, establish a procedure that is the motion of censorship to demand political responsibilities from the rulers. That is the concept of political responsibility. As you know, two months ago, and after thirty years, a motion of censure was tabled here; the result I will not repeat by name and I, as I have pointed out before, have an obligation to this House and to the majority of Spanish citizens who voted for us on their day to continue to govern and address the issues that matter - one of them is this one we are dealing with here - to all the Spaniards. I begin to explain, secondly, my presence at the National Court as a witness. I'm going to try to make some ideas clear because I've heard some things that, frankly, have surprised me. Indeed, I have appeared at the National Court. I have to say that I have appeared as a witness to talk about my party's affairs, not about matters that affect me as President of the Government, which is exactly what happened on the previous 52 occasions when I appeared here, too, today. I have been mentioned not as President of the Government, but as President of a party, something that, as I said in my first speech and certainly went unnoticed, has nothing to do with the demand for political responsibilities that the Spanish Constitution says when it comes to the political responsibilities of the President of the Government. Therefore, I am speaking here in my capacity as party president and, as I have pointed out before, what it is all about is judging my party's actions. That is why I certainly find it surprising - and let me say so - that some speakers today have said that the People's Party has more corruption than other political forces, and therefore it does not seem fair to them that another Commission of Inquiry is set up in another House other than this. Here it has been created by a majority and in the Senate it has been created by a majority. I think it is very important - and I join in the words just spoken by the spokesman for the Rafael Hernando People's Party - that we be made clear, just as the People's Party clarifies everything that some people are asking for, some things that are important. If there is a political party that has been financed with the money of Venezuela and Iran, I care, and I would like explanations to be given in a committee of inquiry, because that is very important. [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have appeared as a witness, as you did in your day, Mrs Robles - you will recall - when you told Judge Gómez de Liaño that the Civil Guard, which you then headed, hampered the investigation carried out by the National Police in the case of Lasa-Zabala, among other things. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Your Honor, you appeared as a witness and you were not convicted, you were not brought to trial and you were neither charged nor investigated; you were a witness and no one came to us at that time to say anything about that matter or to reproach you for the content of your statements, which we have known through public opinion. Of course, Your Honor, at the end comes a time when either we take things seriously or we will end up having a problem, because the question to ask is whether a political leader can go to a court as a witness or must resign when he is quoted. This is the question that needs to be asked. So far the debate was whether when it was imputed, when it was investigated or when it was convicted. When do we finally liquidate the presumption of innocence? Now you can't even be a witness in a court of law? Ladies and gentlemen, that seems very unserious to me. [[Applauds]] A greater abundance is that I am a witness in that trial because you have asked for it, you have asked for it Age. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] When I was there, I was questioned, although I was a witness, Age, the Socialist Party of the Valencian Community and the Socialist Party of the Madrid Community, and no one else. I mean, they ask me to go as a witness, I answer the questions they ask me, they bring me here and now they demand political responsibilities. Hey, please, a little level. [[Applauds]] And then they tell me that justice must not be politicized, Your Honor. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Of course, you don't have to politicize justice, but then they criticize my car coming in through a garage and sitting at the place where the courts themselves decided to sit down. Look, I didn't decide to sit there nor did my car go in where I said, but where the courts said; therefore, respect what the courts say. [[Applauds]] He says that he has blushed my intervention in the act in which I answered the questions of different people at the National Court. Yours today didn't blush me because, knowing her, I didn't expect anything different from what I've heard, it didn't give me the slightest problem, nor did it give me any surprise. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Your Honor, what am I telling you? For I have gone to the National Court as a witness, just as you have, and that I have not reproached you or anyone else has reproached you; that I have come at your request, and that I ask you a little modesty because if it will not be very difficult for me to take it seriously. That's what I meant. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u47	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u48	Let me tell you something else. When the courts are investigating there is no need to open a parliamentary commission, it is important that the courts now be able to calmly analyse, investigate the facts and clarify whether there have been responsibilities; when there are judicial proceedings there is no need to open parliamentary investigations. End of date. You're referring to the former governor of the Banco de España. But what, that this only applies to you and to us does not apply to us? Is that the concept of equity that you defend? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, that is not an example of fairness, that is the law of the funnel, to which an intervener referred here today, and that is not right. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not good what you do when you speak of presumption of innocence. You, asked about the irregular financing of Podemos through alleged payments from Venezuela and Iran, said you did not think because you had to fight for the presumption of innocence from all over the world. End of date. Do you have anything to say about mine or am I worse off than Mr. Churches? That is the question to be asked. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you have also said that until an oral trial is opened the Member must not leave the seat. This is a matter on which we have discussed, probably not very rationally, on different occasions in this House. Hey, should the witness? I mean, what do you mean by this request for political responsibilities? That is another question I would like you to answer here today. Your Honor, with absolute frankness, the lack of equity is one of the worst blows to effectively fight corruption. Yes, because if you what someone in your party does treats you in one way and what another person who is not in your party treats you in another, we are in a case of non-equity and so it will be impossible to fight effectively and above all with justice in the face of corruption. As I told you before, that's what's called the funnel law, and that's not right, Mrs. Robles, that's a very ugly thing and you have to rectify and start changing your way of acting. You're not a judicial officer, you're a deputy, nothing less than the spokesman for your party's parliamentary group, if you have a party, that I don't know. [[Laughter and applause]] Your Honor, I'm going to make a few specific requests to you. First of all, you can quote here when you think it is appropriate and appropriate for whomever you want, and I, if I have to come, will come, as I have always done, and as I will go to this Committee of Inquiry. I would like everyone else to have the same disposition as I have to do, more than anything for maintaining a criterion of fairness and justice. And above all I would ask you - because this is important, believe me truly that it is important - that when we talk about the presumption of innocence, when we talk about the politicization of justice, when we talk about when a high office has to abandon its political responsibilities - I don't know if it has to be when the oral trial is opened, when someone denounces it or when it appears on the front page of a newspaper, I don't know - we all apply the same criteria. That would be an excellent agreement in this area. We're going to start to stop messing with each other and set some game rules that apply to us all, to the 350s that are here. Because, as I said before, the lack of equity is very bad to be effective against corruption; instead, the rules of play - which being rules of play are the same for all - can allow us to move forward and much in the right direction. And let's try to talk about reforms among all of us. Today we have heard many speakers. I have had to explain once again the reforms that the Government has put forward in this House and that have been approved. They will probably say that it has been an excessively long and prolific exposition, but it is that you should also recognize some of the efforts we have made, because we have made them. I have cited in this House ten laws that have been important and that affect and very much the functioning of the parties. Could we do more? Absolutely. Mr Rivera has raised some things and other people have raised other different things, you can talk about everything, but what nobody can say is that the People's Party has not taken steps in the right direction in terms of reforms to improve controls, to improve sanctions and also in increasing personal and material means. Can you do more? Certainly, as in any sector of the public administration, but of course we have tried to take steps in the right direction and I will of course continue to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe, as I have just said, that some things have been done. We have done them to improve controls, we have done them to improve the system of sanctions, we have done them, as I recalled right now, in increasing the personal and material means. I believe that people who, because of their responsibilities, have to fight corruption are acting with absolute independence, which is leading to many cases that are very old being brought to light and punished; in short, that the State is increasingly effective in the fight against corruption. That's the case, and you, Mrs. Robles, know that's the case because, if you hadn't, you wouldn't have said what I'm going to remind you of. May 2017: I am pleased that the cases that are coming to light are from the past. I would say that now the corrupt is more afraid to be discovered; years ago I believe there was absolute impunity and total relaxation. That's what you said, Mrs. Robles. I don't think there would have been absolute impunity and total relaxation years ago, among other things, because you were Secretary of State for the Interior and it's practically impossible for that to happen. [[Rumors]] You also said that if justice had been tougher with corruption, perhaps we would not have reached the current situation. I also don't think we can tell justice that years ago it wasn't harder with corruption, what I mean is that you yourself, probably without that intention - probably not, certainly without that intention - recognize that we have taken many steps in the right direction, and I invite you to join many others that we will try to take to achieve greater effectiveness. I'm finishing up, ladies and gentlemen. I have tried in this brief replica intervention to explain how political responsibilities are demanded in our country. I've tried to point out that being a witness in court proceedings is no disgrace to anyone. I have not entered into the debate on some very specific issues that have raised me because we have already discussed them in countless opportunities. Of course, I have not done here a prolific analysis of what my intervention in the courts has been, among other things, because, as many of you have said on different occasions, one thing is the judiciary and another is Parliament. The government is controlled in Parliament, although parties are also controlled here, especially one, but it is clear that the judiciary is not the same as the legislature. I have taken the view, as other speakers have done, on the opportunity of this debate. I have also said that I am willing, because it is my duty, to respond and to come as many times as you say so by majority. And what I would like to highlight is that my obligation - I explained earlier why - is to govern and I will continue to do so. I think there's a future full of opportunities. I think that in a situation like this one we are living there are two ways to act, one of them is to build and the other is to put up with trouble. It is clear that there are people who have no more objective than this second to which I have just referred, but as I have an obligation to govern I will try with those groups that can build, probably with some on some issues and with others on fewer issues, to make this country move forward. I think there's a future full of opportunities. We have overcome a very difficult situation. We've been through the worst moments of the crises. Today we grow like no one - it's already four consecutive years -, three years above 3% after five years in negative. We are the ones who grow the most in Europe and create more jobs. We have to continue working, because there is still a lot of jobs to be created and there are still many Spanish people in difficulty. It is true that there are people who will never recognize anything that I am saying now because their natural habitat is the misfortune of others; if others have no problems or if everything is not wrong, they have it very difficult because they were born precisely because of it, but that is what I, as President of the Government, am prepared to face with total naturality, among other things, and I point out again, because it is my obligation. The challenges of the future are no less. Today we have talked - I am not going to repeat them -, in addition to economics, about two other issues that, you know, are capital and concern all Spaniards, and I would like us to be able, regardless of whether we are talking about this every five years, to try to build something positive. At the end of the day, we are one of the great European countries, the world's number 12 country in gross domestic product, and I am absolutely convinced that, as soon as we act with common sense and with a certain constructive capacity, things will be much better in the future. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u49	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Robles Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, I have not heard you speak in this plenary not once about the Gürtel case of Mr Bárcenas... [[Applauds]] Don't be afraid. Talk about the Gürtel case, talk about the Barcenas case, because you've come here to talk about what's been going on for so many years without talking. It has surprised me because you have decided to direct the intervention towards me, as if the work of this plenary was the control of my activity. I thank you, I suppose I have to thank you because you take me as a reference since, if not, you wouldn't be so interested in me. [[Applauds]] I'm surprised but, of course, the papers have to be read and read well. Of course I testified as a witness, but there's a difference between how I testified as a witness and how you testified. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u51	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u52	Listen, because since you want to talk about me, I'm going to talk about me. I don't normally like talking about myself... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u53	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u54	...because I think it's not the time, but I'll explain. I came as a witness in the Laza and Zabala case. Thanks to my statement and the intervention of the police officers, those persons who murdered Lasa and Zabala were brought to justice. And you know what I tell you? That some of those responsible, who were then accused, would leave Castellana 5, where I was, and would go to Genoa 13, where the People's Party is, to receive instructions. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u55	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u56	And you know what I'm gonna tell you, too? That the People's Party - there are the hemerotecs, those hemerotecs that you do not see, as when it announces the election campaign -, all the time we were in the government, made the fight against terrorism an instrument against the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] I should have embarrassed them. That is precisely why, because we have a sense of state, we will never use terrorism against the Government. Never. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u57	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u58	That is why we are supporting the Government against terrorism. [[Rumors]] Mr. Rajoy...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u59	One second, Mrs. Robles. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent and always respect the speaker. Everyone.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u60	Thank you, Madam President. I don't care much if they scream. I'm used to it, I know the People's Party. You, Mr. Rajoy, when you went to court - through the back door - did not get out of the car and entered through the front door, which is what I would have done. I entered through the front door when I went to declare; you were better in the car and entering through the back door. And I will tell you one thing, I will not accept you to give me any kind of lesson in my defence of rights and freedoms and I will not accept that the People's Party will give any lesson to the Socialist Parliamentary Group or the Socialist Party in its commitment to the fight against corruption. [[Applauds]] I'm not going to accept it. You are used to acting always with that tone of arrogance, of moral superiority. You and I have made a very similar opposition. I am not the President of the Government, you are the President of the Government and you are the one who has to answer to the opposition. Don't be afraid, don't be afraid to come here. There have been terrorist attacks. That's where we could get to! That criminals, terrorists, set this country's political agenda. We are against terrorism, we are against the violation of legal systems, but we are not supporting corruption, as you are doing with your silence. And don't tell me it's 25 years ago. Look, Mr. Hernando, I have a habit - maybe it's a bad habit - that is to read, and read well. And Mr. Ruth's car that I mentioned, of 28 November 2014 - as you have not read it; I have taken the trouble of reading the Gürtel case; perhaps I can reproduce it from memory -, speaks textually that Mr. Lapuerta and Mr. Barcenas from the years 1990 to 2009 - look how many years ago - had a B box that they used for the illegal financing of the party, and expressly mentioned two issues that you will not like: the payment of election campaigns - Mr. Rajoy, the one of 2000; you, who follows me so much, I will tell you that I too follow you - and the payment of bonuses. [[Mr. Hernando Fraile makes negative gestures]] Nor has Mr. Rajoy spoken of the excesses: only 'Luis, be strong'; what about the excesses? You had an obligation to come here, but not to talk about me, what happened to you or what you look at in the hemerotecas. If you have to testify again before the courts - I have the impression that you will have to testify again - please come in through the door and model my statement. Thanks to my statement, the perpetrators of the acts were convicted. Thank you very much. [[Protests.-Applause from the Socialist Group, ladies and gentlemen.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u61	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr. Iglesias Turrión has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Mariano Rajoy, the Bureau of this House informed us that the current plenary session was governed by Rule 203 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress. He will allow me to read him a paragraph: After the oral presentation by the Government, the representatives of each parliamentary group will be able to speak for ten minutes, setting positions, asking questions or making comments to which the Government will reply. Well, I'm more than commenting, what I've done has been to ask you six questions. I've made them very clear to you. I have asked the services of the House to give you the questions and all I ask you, Mr Rajoy, is that you stick to what is stated in Rule 203 of the Rules of Congress and answer one of the six questions I have asked you. With your permission, I'll do it again in case you've forgotten, because it seems to be very forgotten with some things. First question. You send Barcenas a famous text message of encouragement, knowing that for weeks he had had illegal money in Switzerland. The question is very simple: Why did you do it? Second question: Do you recognize the payments that appear in the accounts of your friend, Luis Bárcenas, to whom you ascended to the treasurer of the party? Third question. From your appearance at the National Audience to today we have been aware of a video in which you detail the accounts of a campaign that, however, you said you did not know at the National Audience. The question is very simple: When did you lie, when you said you did not know the funding details of that campaign or when you explained to the cameras the funding details of that campaign? Fourth question. Since 1989 you have been a member of the PP management, you have held responsibilities such as being president of the PP since 2004. The question is very simple: At what point, Mr Rajoy, did you learn about your party's illegal funding? Fifth question. You said at the National Court that the important thing was to have good collaborators. I mentioned some names - Ana Mato, Rodrigo Rato, Esperanza Aguirre, José Manuel Soria - do you think these people were good collaborators? Sixth question. When you say you don't know any of this, do you really think, Mr. Rajoy, that people, including your party voters, believe you? [[A Member of Parliament: believe him!]] Now I will give you reason in one thing: You have said that corruption is not fought with words, it is fought with actions. You're right. Allow me to make some slight recommendations for actions that should not be carried out: in order to combat corruption, do not pay for black money campaigns, do not make tax amnesties, do not pay for money in B, do not change public contracts for illegal donations, do not press judges so that they do not pursue corruption, do not press prosecutors, do not press police, do not use the Ministry of the Interior to protect the corrupt, do not use the Ministry of Justice to protect the corrupt, and finally, Mr Rajoy, return all the stolen money. [[Applauds]] I believe, Mr Rajoy, that it is very difficult for someone to trust that you will be able to stop doing what you have always done. That is why we - indeed - will continue to work to get them out of the government. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-wing Party (Christian Democrats) - ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u63	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u64	Thank you, President. Mr Rajoy, you were referring to a few words from Mrs Margarita Robles - an inconsistency of Margarita Robles, among dozens of which you have said - in reference to the Committees of Inquiry. Mrs Robles said that we did not have to investigate in the parliamentary seat what was in the judicial seat. [[Mrs Robles Fernández makes negative gestures]] I disagree with Mrs. Robles and you. By the way, they defend that when it is for you, but they vote in favour of the Palau Commission in Catalonia or of the training courses in Andalusia. [[Applauds]] Why can we investigate one thing and not the other, Mr. Rajoy? In Catalonia, Citizens proposed the Palau Inquiry Commission and the People's Party joined and voted in favour. In Andalusia we proposed the Commission of Inquiry into the training courses and the People's Party joined. Now, when it comes to investigating the corruption of the People's Party - the Gürtel case, Bárcenas; all cases of corruption - then it is a political trial. It is not a political trial, it is a commission of inquiry of political parties with the headquarters seized, accused or who have cases of corruption in the ranks or in the leadership of their party. It's the same, Mr. Rajoy. I therefore ask you not to join the committees of inquiry of others and to prevent and try to prevent their own, to allow it, to appear and, in any case, not to criticize those who do the same in Catalonia, Andalusia or in the Congress of Deputies. That's coherence, and not asking for one thing and then the opposite. [[Applauds]] Another issue on which we disagree, Mr Rajoy, is that we have to choose between economics and stability and cover corruption. You can have a country clean of corruption, you can regenerate democratic life and at the same time support budgets, have an educational project, have an economic project, have an employment project. That is the novelty that surely brings Citizens to this House. Mr. Rajoy tells us: Either I or chaos; or the economy and employment - and you get upset and we have a lot of corruption and I don't give explanations - or chaos, or we can. [[Laughter]] Well, look, no. [[Applauds]] There's a choice. We can manage the economy well, we can generate higher quality jobs, we can have better education, we can have an effective public administration and, at the same time, Mr Rajoy, we can fight corruption decisively and reform democratic regeneration. That's what we're trying to do in this legislature; that's what you make us choose from: fear or death. Well, no; we are not going to choose between fighting corruption and having economic stability. Citizens are proposing - I have done so before - some democratic reforms here: we have proposed a Commission of Inquiry against Corruption, which I believe has been shown to be far more effective than this format of Plenary, Mr de Podemos and Mr PSOE. Of course, we do not give up modernising or having a project of the future and not an obsolete project, such as that of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, we have also spoken at this meeting about the importance of using this plenary or the Commission's mechanism. Mrs Robles, have you been convinced after the plenary session that the format of the Commission was better? Have you had enough? [[applause.- Mrs Robles Fernández makes negative gestures]] We warned you, in a rally format Mr Rajoy will end up talking about the Lasa and Zabala case, and terrorism, and Catalonia, and employment, less about Gürtel. Do we warn you or do we not warn you, Mr. Churches? But no, as the Socialist Party must be empowered, as Mr Sánchez has decided that we must make the same mistakes as we can, you go and get in the same way. Mr Hernando, quite rightly, said a few months ago, when we raised a plenary session like this, that it was better to go to the Committee of Inquiry and that Mr Rajoy had an obligation to tell the truth. That was said by Mr Antonio Hernando, who held the speaker's seat before Mr Sánchez returned to the General Secretariat of the Socialist Party. But the Socialist Party has decided to pummel itself, has decided to copy all the mistakes of Podemos. What's the problem? That the Socialist Party, an important part of this House, has been empowered; and instead of working, of making a more serious, rigorous and constructive opposition, it has decided to copy Mr. Iglesias, who tried to make this mistake months ago. Do you know what reality is? That the loser is the Socialist Party and the winner is Mr Rajoy, who comes out free of a plenary where he has nothing to answer for, because you have given Mr Rajoy a rally at the very beginning of the political course. [[Applauds]] What this House needs is parliamentary work, democratic reforms. We have announced that on Monday we are introducing this law of limitation of mandates and I hope that the Socialist Group, Podemos and the People's Group will support it; we will be submitting a reform to suppress suffocations; we want a new Electoral Law for Spain and we want to reform the prosecutor's office and the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of work to be done and this is not solved by useless plenums or by trying to block reforms, as the People's Party does. This is resolved by working and assuming that the Spanish ask us for changes, but they also ask us for seriousness and rigour in parliamentary work. In Citizens we believe that there has to be a more ambitious government than we have, that there has to be more will for change and regeneration in the future. In Citizens we trust that the future of Spain does not pass through the conformism of Mr Rajoy and the People's Party, but do you know what is needed for that, ladies and gentlemen? Winning in the polls, having a project for the future for Spain and not just a parliamentary kick, martanitos or buses. We must have a project for the future for Spain, ladies and gentlemen, and we intend to have it and win the People's Party at the polls. Meanwhile, we will present the reforms that this country needs so that the Spaniards do not have to conform with fear or death. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u65	For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rajoy, you did not surprise us that you did not assume responsibilities; in fact, we were convinced - I told you so - that you would leave with rositas. I don't mean to offend you and you know I've never intended it, but you're tougher than an eight, as you say popularly, even I'm convinced you'll leave here and smoke a cigar. [[Laughter]] Not only has it not assumed responsibilities, but we have not even seen a hint of wanting to quantify the magnitude of the tragedy that this society has because it has turned corruption into a systemic one. Apart from each other's legitimate political positions, you should be distressed, absolutely distressed; indeed, you should be concerned that eight million honest people will vote for you because they do not know that corruption exists or that they did not care when voting. I am convinced that the vast majority of their voters, like ours, are good people and work, yes, and comply with their laws, and I'm sure they get corrupt. Don't you think these people deserve to come out here and at least socialize the magnitude of the tragedy? Instead, how are we gonna get out of here? Some really pissed off and you're smoking a cigar. This is a great concern. Why do you think we want to go? Why do you think we want to found a republic? [[Protests.-Laughter.]] Because we're sick of corruption. Yes... [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: And what happens in Catalonia?]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u67	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u68	We're sick of corruption, even in my country. Yes, yes, of course. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u69	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u70	What do you think, that we're idiots! What do you think, that for our children we want a corrupt Catalonia! [[Rumors]] [[Several Members: Yes!]] Do not attack your intelligence or your honesty. We want free societies, societies in which there is no corruption. That's why we want to found the republic. Yes, that's why we want to found the republic! And that is why we will establish it democratically and vote on 1 October. [[Applauds]] Yes, for his irresponsibility! Is Mrs Merkel honored? Yeah. We do not know about Mrs Merkel's corruption, but when there is a demand movement in Bavaria that has no match with what is happening in Catalonia, this year in fifteen days the Constitution of the Republic of Germany has been amended to resolve the incipient conflict in Bavaria. Then you can't be corrupt in one thing and honest in another. No; either there is corruption for everything - economic, institutional, police corruption, corruption of the truth - or it is honest, or it is on the path of honesty, because we are obviously human and nothing human is alien to us, of course; but the path of self-criticism - I do not say perfection - the path of correction today would have had to be demonstrated here, humbly rising, Mr Rajoy, because surely you are not. I don't say anything, I've never said you'd take some money in your pocket; I've never said it. What do we ask of him? Don't shut the truth, I mean, let's get to the story, but how? Like a ram who fought corruption or someone who left our children a society that is the kingdom of salvation who can? What do you prefer? Perhaps it would be better for you to pass on to history by saying that certainly your government - you can say it - was capable of economic recovery - everyone can read it in their own way - and that you were the person who knew how to correct, that knew how to stand before the challenge of history, a challenge that is horrible, terrible. In four days this democracy will be eaten. Certainly, there are sixteen million people who voted against you - there are many - and only eight voted in favour. Instead, you got away with it, which denotes the problem that this society has. We have thanked the Spanish citizens for their solidarity with Catalonia. Well, now we also want to show solidarity with the Spaniards from Catalonia because they have a big problem; in fact, today we share it, which is why the Gürtel case will be judged by the National Court; corruption will be judged by the Spanish State's citizenship some day, but do you know when we will be judged? On October 1st, by voting civically and peacefully. [[Applauds]] Goodbye, corruption. Welcome, Republic. Thank you. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u71	Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u72	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is that this has been a general debate in which everything has been mixed up. I am surprised that the issue of terrorism has also emerged, but what I cannot accept - in this line the popular spokesman has also had a great deal of influence - is that combating terrorism is said to be the priority, as if it excluded that these matters could be discussed or explained. [[Mr. Hernando Fraile makes negative gestures]] It has nothing to do with it. That is why I am surprised that excuses are being sought to say that we need to talk about other issues and that we cannot talk about this, above all, because something could be said. I was also surprised that the President of the Government expressed his surprise that he was being asked for explanations not in his capacity as President of the Government - which, he said, would appear to be the case in this House - but as president of a party. It must be understood that his party is an obvious agent of Spanish politics. Article 6 of the Spanish Constitution states this: it is a fundamental instrument of political participation. As such, he is allocated a number of public resources, and there are leaders of his party who appear to have used his institutional role to obtain illegal funds or to enrich himself. So, although formally, one thing is party president and another government president, there is no doubt that there are sufficient elements to allow this to be discussed in this House because of political interest. I accept that a number of rules have been changed, but it is not worth hiding your head and putting it all into a response based solely on those rules that have been changed or in extending to corruption problems that may have occurred in other parties. You said you've answered a lot and many times; yes, you've often had to talk about it, but answer, answer,... He didn't give any information today. I believe that it is appropriate - I have already told you in my first speech - and it would be good for everyone - also for the People's Party - to clarify this matter. I do not go into whether or not you knew certain things; I do not know, Mr President. What I do believe is that when this happens and comes out into public light, you will at least have investigated, made an investigation within your party about what has happened, and taken a number of steps. He could have talked to us about that and made this whole thing clear. That's basically what you're claiming. You can't hide your head with evasives over and over again. What I do believe, and it has to be stressed, is that judges must be asked for more speed in the proceedings. After ten years with all this open matter on the channel and with information that is leaking - with more or less certainty that some can be true and others not - it is already time for the facts to be clarified at once, if there is also no political will to clarify it directly and, from there, it can work in another way. Prolonging this issue in time at the judicial level is not good for governability, it is not good for anyone and, in the first instance, not for the People's Party itself, which is the one investigated. It is therefore necessary to clarify these matters without knowing or not, because something has been investigated and clarified and, from there, to know what measures have been taken. At least that would mean a significant and important step towards what we have known to date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u73	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Hernando Fraile has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, when I came to the rostrum, I said that I did not understand the priority and urgency of this House. By being right now in the final minutes of the same I have to maintain the same position. Ladies and gentlemen, has something new been said in this House that it had not been repeated or that it had not been explained a few years ago and on numerous occasions? Always, you know, at any moment or from any shadow a light sometimes emerges. Today we have been able to see how Mrs Robles is no longer, fortunately, an independent person within the Socialist Party, as she had until very recently maintained. He already maintains the same thesis of the Socialist Party, which are, as the president has said, the law of the funnel or what that said: I have no advice for me. Your Honor, you have tried to justify your position. I am not going to insist any more on its contradictions, but it has made a reference to the discrepancies around the fight against terrorism that do not seem to me welcome. Mrs Robles, we have not signed any manifesto against the Government asking it, at one point, for the Government to dialogue with the terrorists. We have never done that, and you, unfortunately, have. Mr. Iglesias, you have asked questions and repeated questions that are answered in the Journal of Sessions. If I spent more time reading the Journal of Sessions, for example at the plenary session four years ago, I would see that all those questions that you have raised are absolutely answered. Therefore, more Journal of Sessions and less readings of Lenin and Laclau. Perhaps it would be better for you and surely for your parliamentary group, too. [[Rumors]] But it's surprising that you ask questions about funding when you're unable to clarify anything about the funding you've had. We have repeated this on several occasions. I know that this enthuses your parliamentary group to the point that I am applauded Yes, yes, they applaud, they applaud. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] But explain to me, if possible, where the 272,000 dollars that were deposited into an account in Granadas went to end up. [[Rumors]] Where did that money go two months before the European elections? Where did the money received by Mr. Coin go? What was he doing with that money? Are the accusations made about you by your former partner, on that Iranian-funded television, that you were paying in black money and in envelopes without social security contributions and certainly miserable amounts? [[Laughter]] I could talk about this and investigate this House, but there are some who have been conjured up so that this cannot be investigated in this House, Mr Rivera. That is why we have to investigate this in the Senate, to investigate those financings and also those of other political parties after the complaints - I insist - of the Court of Auditors. Mr Rivera, you have come to give us lessons about the investigation commissions or parliamentary processes, but do not take heart over what your party has done in Andalusia because they have done nothing to uncover corruption. Rather, what his party has done has been to work together to cover up the corruption of the Socialist Party in Andalusia. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to insist on any more things because I believe that everything is already said and repeated to the point of satiety. Mr. Tardà, you're talking about neighborhood corruption. It comes to talk about the corruption of others - I insist - which is already judged and on which it has already been discussed, but you are ruling in Catalonia with those of 3%, Mr Tardà. [[Applauds]] How you come here to teach lessons, Mr. Tardà! And they have introduced a law to amnesty all those who have ever been corrupted in Catalonia, Mr Tardà. [[Several Members: No, no!]] Yes, Mr. Tardà! Do you know how you would contribute to the interests of Catalonia and the real Catalans? Abandoning that madness in which you and your political formation have embarked to destroy Spain, break our coexistence and end national sovereignty. This is how you would provide a service to Catalonia, Catalans and Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u75	I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall try to be brief in this speech. I would like to start the same one by making a statement that I have already made several times this morning. I have said that I am subject to the control of this House whenever this House so decides and in accordance with the regular procedures that we have established among all. I submit myself to the control of this House in all the formats that have been and that have been. If I have to go to a committee of inquiry, I will go, if I have to answer a question, I will also go, if I have to go to the Senate, I will go, as I have usually done since I am President of the Government, and if political responsibilities are demanded of me, I will also assume them, because it is my duty as President of the Government. Now, after listening to some speeches, it seems to me that it is quite reasonable for me to make the following comment: one thing is that I submit myself to the control of this House or the Senate in any of your procedures and when you say, and another thing is that I cannot defend myself. What cannot be done is to arrive at this House, to say what is deemed appropriate and appropriate by the President of the Government and to ask the President of the Government to give him the reason. Mrs. Robles, you're not in court now, this is not a court. I already know I'm going to a court and I can't tell the judge, not even the lawyers who ask me, by pilgrims who may seem to me the issues they raise. You ask me, and I have to answer. But, of course, you're not in a court of law, you can be answered when you say something that's not reasonable - which doesn't usually happen because you normally say reasonable things -; so let me answer you. I say the same to Mr Tardà, who has been very kind in this second intervention. Mr Tardà comes to tell us here that he is absolutely right, that he knows everything, that all the statements he makes are true and that I have to say what he thinks is appropriate and appropriate. You don't like my attitude? What do you like, what is it? That I say yes to everything you say? One thing is that they put me under control and another thing is that they take away my right to self-defence, which is absolutely unacceptable and undemocratic. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Robles, don't bother because I'm addressing your person. I am doing this, firstly, in the exercise of the right of defence; secondly, to clarify to you some of the important issues that you have raised to me and, thirdly, I am addressing you above all because I believe that you are the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and for me the Socialist Party remains the main opposition party. If you do not want, I can address Mr Rivera by spending more time or even Mr Iglesias or Mr Tardà if necessary. That is why I am doing this: to favour you, to acknowledge the position of the Socialist Party. It's the truth. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] There are a couple of things I'm absolutely convinced you're going to answer, I don't know if today or at any other time. I have not talked about Lasa and Zabala for nothing, I have said that you were as a witness, that was the subject, you have entered into other issues. What you said about them leaving the court or ministry and going to Genoa 13, did you tell the judge? What were the consequences of that? Who were they and who were they telling? I'd like you to say it here, because that thing about telling us a story and then leaving us without knowing exactly what it's about, it doesn't seem as reasonable to me. In the same way, I would like to know why I am going to testify again in a court of law. What happens, does the Socialist Party of Valencia and the Socialist Party of Madrid again ask for my appearance? Man, if you're all right, more than anything on the agenda, I'd like you to explain it to us in this House so we can all find out at once. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Mr. Iglesias, I will only add to Mr. Rafael Hernando's request. Transparency is for everyone. I agree with transparency. [[Mr Iglesias Turrion raises his hands and shows six fingers]] Yes, yes, I'm just two, which is Venezuela and Iran, but it would be important for me to know this House. [[Raise your hand and show two fingers]] [[Rumors]] Man, no! Well, and since you have been against meetings in the reserved restaurants and in favour of transparency on so many occasions, what were you doing with Mr Roures and Mr Tardà's boss in Barcelona the other day? [[Applauds]] [[Mr. Iglesias Turrion raises his hands again showing six fingers.- Rumors]] That is very important for this House to know it too, because I believe that this can have political consequences, especially in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-08-30-CD170830.u77	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was twelve and five minutes from noon. Error correction. In the 'Diary of Sessions' number 70, session number 4, for the Permanent Chamber held on Thursday, 24 August 2017, on page 67, the result of the vote on item 5 is as follows: votes in favour 17; against, 32; abstentions, 15. The voting on item 7 was as follows: in favour, 17; against, 47.
