ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Firstly, a question from Mrs Margarita Robles Fernández of the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, how do you assess the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 8 June, which declared your tax amnesty unconstitutional?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, do not take me wrong, I do not value this judgment or any of it, I respect all of it because I do not think it is appropriate for the President of the Executive to devote himself to applauding, criticizing, taking a position or to arguing about the content of the judgments of the courts. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u5	Mrs. Robles.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u6	I didn't expect another answer from you. It would be good for other ministers of his Government to do the same with regard to the assessment of judgements that were not pleasant and comfortable for them. [[Applauds]] But you, as President of the Government and as a man of law, cannot be left out of what the Constitutional Court tells you. And this parliamentary group is not going to tell you, I will read to you what the Constitutional Court, unanimously, has told you. He has said that the adoption of measures which, instead of being used to combat tax fraud, take advantage of it, on the pretext of obtaining income which is considered essential in the face of an economic crisis - he takes good care of it, Mr President - implies the abdication of the State in view of its obligation to fulfil the duty of all citizens to contribute to the maintenance of fiscal burdens. Moreover, Mr President, you say something which, in the opinion of my group, is of particular gravity because you say that with your government's tax amnesty you have come - listen to me well - to legitimize as a valid option... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u7	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u8	... the conduct of those who have not consistently fulfilled their duty to tax according to their economic capacity, formally placing them in a more favourable situation than that of the rest of the citizens. And of course, Mr President, you naturally have to respect the judgment but note what the Constitutional Court says to you, unanimously and at the request of the Socialist Parliamentary Group's appeal: that you have abdicated yourself from the duties of the State on such an important issue as the contribution of citizens and that tax fraudsters are being legitimised. Really, if you do not take political responsibility from your Government, with what moral strength will you heed other rulings of the Constitutional Court? With what moral force are you going to ask citizens to contribute at a time like when we are on tax burdens? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u9	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u10	Thank you very much. It is appropriate, Your Honor, to remember what we are talking about. In other words, the Constitutional Court declares contrary to the Constitution the procedure used for fiscal regularization. That is, that the royal decree-law has been used and not the bill. In addition, it should also be recalled that the Constitutional Court itself says that the judgment will not have effect and therefore the final proceedings cannot be reviewed. That's the truth and the rest are value judgments. [[Rumors]] Another thing other than the truth is the noise you want to make. I, for my part, will only make some considerations on this matter. At the time Spain was in a very limited situation, on the verge of bankruptcy and on the verge of rescue, because you had left us with a deficit of 9,6 % and 70 billion euros less collection. That was the inheritance we received. It was necessary to make decisions that would probably not have been made under other circumstances, not only this one for which you are interested, but also a tax increase - then we lowered them again - or, for example, the nationalization of the bank, which you will consider that in a party like mine is not the most reasonable nor was it included in our electoral program. Additional revenue was obtained, EUR 12 billion; EUR 40 billion was made available, which they always taxed from then on. That was done in line with OECD recommendations, it was done in many European countries and very important such as the United Kingdom, Italy or the United States itself. Such fiscal regularization neither cleans nor erases crimes and such fiscal regularization had also been done in Spain with socialist government and on two occasions, but with two differences on which we made. The first is that we were in a precarious situation, which was not the case with the Socialist Party, which was in a buoyant situation in 1991. The second is that with you the outflowed rents did not pay and with us yes, and with you the defrauders did not identify because they gave them opaque payoffs and with us yes. That's the small difference, Mrs. Robles. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE JUDGMENT OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS OF STRAIGHT IN RELATION TO THE ATUTXA CASE VALUES? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[TEDH]] [[File number 180/000272]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u11	Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, from the Vasco PNV Parliamentary Group, also to the President of the Government. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u12	Good morning, Mr. President. How do you assess the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in relation to the Atutxa case?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. I just said it now: I don't value sentences either this or any. All of them, of course, complied with those of the Spanish courts and also those of the European Court of Human Rights, since Spain is a signatory State to the European Convention on Human Rights. I beg you not to misunderstand me; I never do it, I must never do it, it is not my job and it would be wrong for the President of the Government to comment in favour of or against the sentences of Spanish or foreign courts. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u16	Mr President, it is not a bad mockery of judicial independence, but Mr Atutxa, Gorka Knörr, Kontxi Bilbao were the subject of a political hunt. Carlos Iturgaiz called Atutxa an alleged criminal who is not in his complete stature. Carlos Urquijo: Judges know what they have to do in the face of attitudes of disobedience. Acebes accused the rule of law of contempt: ETA has only the PNV left, and what happened in the Basque Parliament will have consequences. Mr. Rafa Hernando: Atutxa must resign immediately because he does not know how to suppress his sectarianism and nefarious attitude. Major Oreja: Atutxa is degrading Parliament and is facing the rule of law. When the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country closes the case, you, Mr President, said: the prosecutor must call for an appeal, getting involved in the prosecution's work. When the Attorney General of the State, Mr.Conde-Pumpido, said that he saw no disobedience in Mr.Atutxa's attitude, the People's Party called for the resignation of the Attorney General, calling the People's Group in the Senate a shameful act that of the Prosecutor's Office. And Mr. Agustín Conde praised the courageous attitude of clean hands to appeal while the prosecution decided to take over the case file. Well, it is using Clean Hands as you arrive at the Supreme Court - look, Clean Hands, with your leader sent to prison by chorizo and blackmailer - and so, the Supreme Court changes its jurisprudence, eliminates the Botín doctrine, creating a different one by seven votes to five, and then, with Mr López's invaluable collaboration in the Constitutional Court as rapporteur - judge from where you are and which you have imposed through the Senate against other groups for the Constitutional Court - denied the amparo violating the right to judicial impartiality, equality and a trial with all guarantees. Europe has now partially repaired the blow, but the disqualification does not remove it anyone and everything that Mr Atutxa and his colleagues had to endure, neither. He has been a person persecuted by ETA, who has even tried to kill him, and then pursued with heed also politically. That's why I'm waiting for an aggravation of what happened to Mr. Atutxa from his mouth. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u18	Let us see, Mr Esteban, the European Court of Human Rights has handed down many judgments on matters that have occurred in our country. For example, on Batasuna's illegalization he said it was legal; there is a recent ruling on the dispersal of terrorist prisoners in which he said it was legal; the Parot doctrine, however, annulled it; and this one you are also interested in annulled it, although, as you know, it did not go into the merits of the case, but merely stated that the accused should have been questioned as witnesses before the Supreme Court itself. In other words, in some cases he gave the Spanish courts the right and in other cases he did not give the right to the Spanish courts. However, there is one fact that I think is very positive: Spain is the fourth country with the least per capita claims before the European Court of Human Rights. It is very interesting to see, in this regard, the website of the court itself because it demonstrates the capacity and competence of the Spanish courts. My position has always been the same and cannot be another. I have to respect and obey what the courts say, go on a line, give me reason or don't give it to me. The only thing I want to add - and I think this is the most important of the question that you raise - is that the rule of law has worked, and the rule of law is a fundamental principle of democracy, and the system of monitoring and reviewing judicial decisions and appeals has worked. That is the greatness of democracy, which one can condemn and then acquit, or vice versa. The rule of law has worked here and also in the European Court of Human Rights. I see it that way, Mr. Esteban. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u19	Thank you very much. - of Mr Joan Baldoví Roda, of the Joint Parliamentary Group, which expresses to the President of the Government: Has he not considered that he has already accumulated sufficient grounds to present his resignation? [[File number 180/00273]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u20	Question, also addressed to the President of the Government, by Mr Joan Baldoví Roda, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u21	Mr. Rajoy, don't you think you've already accumulated enough reason to submit your resignation? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u23	I don't think so at all, Mr. Baldoví, I'm telling you frankly. Moreover, I believe that my obligation is to govern and work to consolidate economic recovery, growth and job creation in Spain. There are three reasons why I think I should rule. Firstly, because I chair the party which has the largest number of seats in this House -137 Members and the second, 85-; secondly, out of respect for this House, which only seven months ago distinguished me by giving me its seat; and thirdly, because this House itself, a week ago, rejected a motion of censure. Therefore, the logical and reasonable thing is that I fulfill my obligation and govern. It is, in short, a subject of democracy and responsibility, Mr Baldoví. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u25	If it had been a matter of trust, you would not have overcome it. I'll give you ten reasons, as I could give you fifty. One, Minister Bermejo resigned for attending a hunt with a judge. You repeatedly exchanged messages with a criminal, and nothing, Mr. Rajoy. Two, Minister Corcuera resigned because the Constitutional invalidated two articles of his law. You, the ultimate leader of the People's Party, have been given a tax amnesty for laundering black money from criminals, and nothing. Three, Minister Pimentel - of his party - resigned because the wife of a director general obtained public funds for a company. The party you preside over has sixty-five open plots of corruption, nine hundred public offices have been imputed. The PP is the first party in democracy to be accused of destroying evidence. Four, when you were appointed president were 28% Catalans who wanted an independent state; now it is 44%. I'd have to think about it. Five, in June 2012 he said that the rescue of the banks would not cost the citizens; today we know that the bank will not pay, that it will cost us all 60 billion euros. Six, his Government had not met the deficit target once. Seven, this Parliament has reproached its minister for trying to manipulate justice in favour of the People's Party. Eight, his former Interior Minister has opened a commission of inquiry for using the police to spy on parties for his own benefit. Nine, the National Court has summoned him to testify for Gürtel's corruption plot. Ten, as a Valencian, I tell you that you have been a real plague: underfunding, underinvestment. You, Mr. Rajoy, cost us a lot of money. I'm done. Mr Rajoy, you have been everything within the PP: Deputy Secretary-General, President, has conducted election campaigns. Frankly, it cannot be that you were unaware of anything: neither of being paid for electoral acts nor of the reform of your electoral seat. There's no such thing as ignorance. Think about it, I'd do a great service to this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u27	I am very sorry, Mr Baldoví, but you have not convinced me of your intervention. [[Laughter]] You're committed to resigning, but then, when someone puts a motion of censure to throw me out, it hits you with a grudge to put it on. No wonder he called you "conservative elites." [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you have a problem and it is that the Spaniards do not think like you and this House does not think like you either; that is the problem you have. Democracy is a system in which people vote; each person has a vote and chooses who prefers to rule him. The Spaniards have said that the People's Party, with 137 seats, must assume the responsibility of governing. Maybe you don't like the democratic system, but I have to fulfill my obligation. And my obligation is to govern for the reasons I told you at the beginning: because this House has given me the investiture, because this House has cast a motion of censure and because we have more popular support. If you had more popular support you would have to. You have neither the obligation to govern nor any other obligation that I have, because you have four Members and I have one hundred and thirty-seven. All I ask is that, since you have no obligation to govern, at least use those four deputies with a little more political level and intelligence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - of Mr Albert Rivera Diaz, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which expresses the Vice-President of the Government, Minister of the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations: WHAT COORDINATION ARE THE EUROPEAN GOVERNMENT COMMON FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN ANTI-TERRIORIST POLICY? [[File number 180/000278]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u28	Question to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations. Question by Mr Albert Rivera Díaz of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u29	Thank you, President. Vice-President, first of all, I should like to congratulate - I believe on behalf of this whole House - the arrest of the three jihadists today by the National Police, which is good news of the good work that our security forces and bodies are doing. Speaking of terrorism - which is the question I wanted to ask - I have no doubt, Vice-President, that in Spain we have the best professionals, the best police officers, the best prosecutors, the best judges in the National Court but, obviously, the world is changing, terrorism too - everything goes very fast - and cities like London, Manchester, Berlin, Nice, Paris, Brussels - yesterday - are the stage chosen by those who want to end our freedom. That is why, Vice-President, I believe that anti-terrorism policy - for many years and rightly so - is not a government policy but a state policy. For this reason, I have already shown you that Citizens will always be on the side of the Government to support the anti-terrorist policy. But precisely because it is a state policy and not a government policy, we also believe that the anti-jihadist pact, which was opened to all political forces and which is a good idea, needs to be updated, needs to be convened, we need to be able to meet to see what things can be improved. That is why, Vice-President, if since March 22, 2016, that pact has not been convened and too many things have happened along the way, I ask you: Does the government intend to summon political forces to that pact? Does the Government intend to update and improve it, to the extent possible, by means of legal measures, material or human resources? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u30	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I thank you and join you in recognizing the security forces and bodies of the State of this country, which have been making an extraordinary effort for many months and are also demonstrating at the international level the experience and capacity of our country to combat terrorism. For the Government, such a struggle is a priority. You asked for coordination with the European governments and I would like to say that this is part of a firm commitment by the government. It was demonstrated this Friday at the lunch of the President of the Government with the President of the French Republic, Mr Macron, and I would also like here today to acknowledge the exemplary collaboration between the two countries for decades, which will be demonstrated tomorrow and past at the European Council, where also at the request of Spain will put on the table matters as important as the fight against online radicalisation - precisely today the Spanish State Security Forces and Bodies have been leaders on this issue -, the financing of terrorism and support for the victims. You asked about the anti-terrorist pact and I want to say that unity of politicians is a key element in any government's strategy for action. Our unity is our greatest strength and, on the contrary, the greatest weakness of terrorists. We believe that the anti-terrorist pact is much more than one or several meetings. It is a spirit of unity of action, commitment and exchange of data and ideas. It has no doubt that, if we are able to work on an agenda that gives content and impetus to action to this meeting of the pact, we will have it and we will be able to make further progress. For our part, be committed to always being informed on time and with the will to agree and to commit as many matters as are important to strengthening the fight against terrorism. From the Government's position we invite everyone to join us, because the more we are and the more united we are, the weaker the terrorists will be and the more isolated they will be. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u33	Let's get to work, Vice President. Call that pact, let's put an agenda, let's talk about how to improve, for example, the Witness Protection Act, which is a fundamental instrument, and how to provide the prosecution and judges of the National Court with more human resources. Let's also put aside the occurrences. It is not the time to remove crimes against terrorism, as other groups propose, or to act as observers. It is time to work against terrorism and to give more instruments to our police, our judges and our prosecutors. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u34	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u35	Very briefly, Mr Rivera, I think there are four points on which we have to work. I have already talked about political unity, which is fundamental. Secondly, judicial and police cooperation at the internal and international levels. You have asked for human resources and I think it is very important that both in the Conference of Presidents and in one of the last legislative decrees adopted in this House we increase the strength of the State Security Forces and Bodies. We need to work on care for victims and do so at European level. It is being led by Spain at the international level with the status... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u36	Thank you very much, Vice President. - QUESTION MADE BY THE DEPARTMENTAL Adriana LASTRA FERNANDEZ, IN THE REPRESENTATION OF MR MERITXELL BATET LAMAÑA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: WHY DO YOU RESIST TO COMPLETE THE TRANSPARENCY LEGISLATION? [[File number 180/00280]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u37	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Adriana Lastra Fernández, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, why are they resisting compliance with transparency legislation?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u39	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Lastra, the government is not resisting anything less than compliance with transparency legislation. You must consider that this legislation on transparency was adopted by the People's Party Government, by President Rajoy's Government. We were the introducers of this measure: transparency in Spain. It had never existed and, therefore, we are living the experience of its actual application. In this respect, I hope that all the political groups will contribute so that transparency in Spain, which has already made a great deal of progress in this area - for example, with the public information of its public accounts and its national accounts - can be extended to everything that attracts the interest of public opinion and citizens. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lastra. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u42	Minister, three years ago we reported that they were not complying with the Transparency Act, refusing to publish the declarations of assets of 175 senior officials. At the time, the Vice-President of the Government replied to my colleague, Antonio Hernando, that what was really important was to be able to verify whether there was any unjustifiable enrichment between the assets with which a high office came in and the assets with which it came out. It is true that the law has advanced, it is true that transparency obligations have been reinforced, but it is also true that the situation, Minister, has deteriorated considerably. Because, please note, since September 2014 they have not fulfilled their obligations again, the only thing they publish and refer to this House are two sheets, a brief report, with the number of statements submitted and, where appropriate, the sanctioning procedures, that is, they do not comply with what the Vice-President said was truly important. They have stolen it, they have denied this House also the possibility of knowing whether in about two hundred cease-fire declarations, which are more or less the people who have ceased since 2014, there could be some kind of unjustified enrichment. I will give an example, the Under-Secretary of the Presidency, who had to resign when his involvement in the Aquamed case was made public. Minister, the question is, how many other Aquamed are hiding from this House and Spanish citizens? Not only are they engaged in non-compliance with the law, but they are systematically resorting to it; of thirty-six judicial appeals brought against decisions of the Transparency Council and the Good Government, twenty-two are of the Government itself, and in only one case have they been justified. But we now know that eight ministries have decided, they have planned to resort to the decision to make public the distribution of funds to the media of institutional advertising, that is, they use public resources to resist law enforcement. Minister, public resources are of the citizenry, not of this government, a government that resists to comply with the most basic rules of transparency that impose not only on us our own laws, but also and, above all, the least public decency. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u43	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Lastra, first of all, I would like to say that the assets of the outgoing senior officials will soon be published effectively as a result of the change of government; we are on time and, as it cannot be otherwise, there will be maximum transparency. Since the creation of the portal there have been 7,591,237 pages visited by citizens. In the first five months of the year, 1,146,622 have been visited. The portal offers one and a half million data from all ministries and public agencies, three times more than it offered at its inception. And as far as litigation is concerned, the Administration complies with the vast majority of the resolutions of the Transparency and Good Government Council. Proof of the proper functioning is that these claims accounted for only 8% of the total of those received on the portal and the board estimated less than half of them, representing 3.77 % of the applications submitted. This demonstrates the small conflictivity that exists. The Administration has actually filed thirty-three appeals, which represents 0.36% of the total number of applications processed. Therefore, I think that we are facing a positive experience but that certainly and logically... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u45	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE SAURA GARCIA PEDRO DEPUTY, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHAT EFFECTS DOES THE FEELINGS OF THE INCONSTITUTIONALITY OF THE FISCAL AMNISTIA HAVE IN THE FISCAL CONSCIENCE OF THE SPANISHES? [[File number 180/00281]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u46	Question by Mr Pedro Saura García, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Mr. Saura.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, how do you assess the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which declares your tax amnesty unconstitutional? Do you intend to resign, Mr. Montoro? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u48	Thank you very much. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u49	Thank you, Madam President. In the second part of your question is the answer, to you what matters is that you resign. [[Laughter]] We are on it, but from time immemorial. Since I entered this House more than twenty years ago and before I had the first public office I remember that the Socialist Party was already asking for my resignation; it is an obsessive thing, what are we going to do to him! [[Laughter]] But I will remind you, Mr Saura, that you agreed with this government on the expenditure ceiling in December last year, the deficit targets, the tax measures that underpinned those budgets. But that's the way it is, you get up systematically - I don't know how many times you've done it, and now you do it in the new PSOE again - and you ask: When are you going to resign, Mr Montoro? Well, look, I told you, I don't know how many times. The more times you get up to ask for my resignation, the less I can leave, it's obvious. What is our assessment of the sentence? The president has already explained it. The judgment is a disqualification by the procedure and is a measure taken at a time of complete asphyxiation of the country. Throughout today we will have the opportunity to enter into the contents, the approaches, and I ask your political group to cooperate in transferring the most positive consequences of this sentence to Spanish citizens. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Saura, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Montoro, by the tax amnesty you have to resign, you have to apologize to the Spaniards, also Mr Rajoy and his Government, and you have to know all the white-collar criminals who took up the tax amnesty. That's what has to happen, out of political decency. You said yesterday that you did not leave the ministry because you had to do many things. Precisely because you have to do many things in your ministry, to return decency to that ministry and to the Government, you have to leave the Government immediately. Mr Montoro, the fundamental task of a finance minister is to enforce the principle of tax justice, because that is fundamental to strengthening fiscal awareness. What the Constitutional ruling says, because it goes into the background, is that the principle of tax justice is broken and that, in addition, they are being endorsed, the defrauders' conduct is being legitimized - it says forcefully -; all we have been saying here Wednesday after Wednesday, and you took it to heart. Ladies and gentlemen, what fiscal amnesty does is precisely to whitewash corruption, to whitewash corrupt people, to whitewash many leaders of the People's Party, because that is why the tax amnesty was made. That is why, Minister, you have to leave. It has to go because it is the best way to return decency to Spanish politics, because it is the most worthy way to improve the prestige of Spanish politics, because it is the most worthy way of political regeneration in our country. The tax amnesty is the blackest page, the blackest in the Spanish Public Treasury. If you do not resign, Minister, we will reprimand you, we will ask you to leave, and Mr Rajoy would have to cease immediately. Minister, you do not deserve to be a minister or even a professor of Spanish public finance. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u52	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u53	Thank you, Madam President. On the basis of repeating the lie is not true, the truth does not come down from heaven. The tax amnesty, as you call it, is a tax declaration to regularize those who had not regularized, and there is only one leader of the People's Party who, in a minor part, and who is now in court, welcomed her. One. That's why he said it's ridiculous what he says. But you insist, crush and assert without any consistency, without any coherence. Look, I don't know what I have to do, but I've been at the Ministry's headquarters for fourteen years, then for Economics and Finance, today for Finance and Public Service, fourteen years... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u54	Thank you very much, Mr Montoro. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]] Quiet. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON RAFAEL MAYORAL PERALES, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES MAY IN COMMUNITY MAY IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENT AND PUBLIC SERVICE: DOES THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENT AND PUBLIC SERVICE, CRISTOBAL MONTOR ROMER, IN HIS STATUS OF POLITICAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE FEELING OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL TRIBUNAL DECLARED IN CONSTITUTIONAL BY THE TAX AMNISTIA? [[File number 180/000285]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u55	Question by Mr Rafael Mayoral Perales, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u56	Good morning, Minister. The question of the day, which all the Spanish and Members of this House seem to be asking, is: will you or will you not resign as a result of the Constitutional Court's ruling on the tax amnesty? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u57	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Mayor, the best thing is the originality of your question. It has extended it perfectly well, but after the story of the history of Spain that Mr. Iglesias made to us last week, really, in that - let's call it - black novel that he built in the rostrum, taking advantage that he had no time limit, because now his question is an obvious one. I will answer that by telling him that I will continue to work, I will continue to do my job as a minister and as a public servant until this country eliminates the public deficit and, with that, we will be able to have the level of the occupied, the level of employment that we had before the economic crisis. That's gonna be my job and my intention. And, by the way, that is also responding to my vocation. That is why I hold a position in this Government and, of course, I will be working in the Government at the service of the Spaniards, which is also what I recommend you do, to put yourselves at the service of the general interest of the Spaniards in terms of economic recovery and job creation. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Mayoral, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u60	Not by original is less asked by everyone to know why you want to stay in the position as it arises. As for work, I think that little by little we are seeing clearly, when you had doubts that we would point out to you as those responsible for working for the elites in front of the people, perhaps now we can materially see that this already transcends even the ideological. What we're talking about is working for the defrauders. What we are talking about is that this Government is working to protect fraud, while during the toughest years of the crisis they have fought with the popular sectors, with the autonomous ones who went bankrupt after being strangled by the banks; with the workers who lost their jobs and could not pay their obligations; with them all the strength and all the anger, but when the time came for the bankers, the financial sector, the defrauders, the money in the tax havens, there was the Government to rescue them without losing a moment. That is why we say that you are a government that works, yes, you work for the elites and not for the people. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u61	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u62	Look, Minister, we don't settle for you to resign. He knows that we really want his government to go away. But we believe that you have a good opportunity to give some decency to the issue of political responsibility. You've suffered a varapalo in the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court is late and we will not be able to claim that money. What I'm telling you is simply to talk to Mr. Soria; and Mr. Soria will be able to explain that resigning is not a Russian name. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u63	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u64	Thank you, Madam President. I was sure I was going to continue with Mr. Iglesias' black novel, because you are in the conspiracy-friendship theory; I don't know how you do it. How many friends of mine are in that DTE? How many? Are you all very close? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u65	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u66	Look, in the decree-law of the DTE, in the same decree-law, this one that does not want to value and that did not lead to the Constitutional, in the same text is the limitation of the deduction of the financial expenses to the big companies of this country. There is the limitation to the depreciation of large companies in this country, in the same text. We are talking about tax decisions on 30 March. Ask yourself: why did a socialist government allow nearly 40 000 taxpayers who had EUR 40 billion hidden? Why? Why did they not make the decisions that are in the decree-law limiting financial expenditure and amortization in large companies? Why? [[Rumors]] No, if you weren't; ask those who want to make political pacts, ask them what... [[Laughter]] [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Montoro. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. - OF JUAN CARLOS VIDAL GIRAUTA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: HOW DOES YOU THINK TO REPAY THE INJURY CAUSED BY THE INSTITUTIONAL AND INJUSTIOUS TAX AMNISTIA? [[File number 180/000276]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u68	He also asked the Minister of Finance and Public Service, Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal, of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u69	Minister, how will Spanish citizens be compensated for the effects of the zero tax amnesty?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u70	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u71	The way to compensate them has to be to show that what we did, that we didn't like to do, because we didn't really like to take that action, were government responsibilities, as the president said. We did not like to raise the IRPF; this measure we took - it is collected in the Journal of Sessions the explanation I gave in the forum of Congress - in order not to have to raise the VAT, and then we had to raise the VAT due to the situation that we lived in 2012. But that measure has served to ensure that today there is growth and job creation, so that those who were avoiding the public finances today are contributing through income tax and property tax, which is really what counts, and that we can therefore commit ourselves and promote - I hope that we will do so with their political group, since it is included in the investment agreement - in the second half of the legislature - since we have sufficient revenue to finance public services, to reduce the public deficit - the reduction of the income tax on natural persons. There are measures that we do not like to take, but that over time show their usefulness and enable us to take other measures, such as the measures in which I insist and which we have included in the investment pact. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Girauta.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u73	I think it was yesterday, Minister, when you referred to carrots when talking about fiscal reform policies. The problem is that the carrots have been given to Bárcenas, to Rato, to several members of that criminal organization known as the Pujol family, to Mr Rodríguez Sobrino, to Diego Torres, and the stick you have given to the Spanish working middle class. I know your argument and I have admitted to you on other occasions that you have the most ungrateful role possibly of a government, but the ruling of the Constitutional Court is there, and there is not only a procedural reproach, Minister, there is a moral reproach. You are told in the sentence that you have legitimized insolidity. I do not read it - here the literal tenor of a part of the sentence has already been read - but you know the content and that there is a reproach because it legitimizes the insolidity. Minister, all taxes have gone up. They increased the IRPF to 52%, which, in addition to the voracity of some autonomous communities such as the one from which I come, led us to 56% of the marginal type. VAT went up, academic fees went up, bank deposits went up, everything went up, and that clearly contrasts with the special tax return for those who did not comply and who were not only defrauding, but many of them -780 of them - are in the process of money laundering, a list that you did not want to give, when it comes to alleged criminals. The contrast is too bitter, and it seems to me that there is a perverse mechanism in the prize to the defrauder and the punishment to the keeper. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u74	Mr. Montoro, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u75	Excuse me, Mr. Girauta, it wasn't like that. It wasn't like that. What I am telling you is that the ETD measure had a framework, which was the obligation to declare property and rights abroad, except for surcharges, very severe penalties and the non-prescription of what was not declared. This allowed EUR 130 billion, including 40,000, to be identified in the 2013 declaration alone. Therefore, it was not so. The facts weren't those. And I'm going to tell you one thing: I was the minister who, of course, assuming my responsibilities, defended the decree-law to raise VAT. Do you think raising VAT is fair? I do not think so, and I have asked for public forgiveness in this House for having to do so, but when you do, you are assuming your responsibility, because, if not, your country is going to suffer a great deal, it cannot in any way meet the deficit target that will bring about its consequences... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u76	Thank you very much, Mr Montoro. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF ARTEMI RALLO LOMBARTE, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: HOW DOES THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR JUSTIFY THE ACTIVITIES OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR IN RELATION TO THE LEGAL OPERATION? [[File number 180/00282]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u77	Questions now to the Minister of the Interior. First of all, the question by Mr Artemi Rallo Lombarte of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u78	Thank you very much, President. Minister, on 25 April the scandal broke out, the reproved Minister Catalá replied to an SMS from González: I wish the troubles would close soon. And you, without asking anyone, jumped to the wheel to make public that you never spoke to him. Non-small excuse, manifest accusation. You wanted to put the bandage on before the wound, but the truth ends up opening up the way and your lies too. You lied, Minister. He lied in the Senate and lied to all the Spaniards. That conversation lit up a plan: clean, cut everything you need, like you don't, you get eaten in the minute one. And Gonzalez was excited. He changed all God, he said, and he added with expectation: But the people of the courts are still left. Minister, even if they are unjustifiable, how do you intend to mask your actions in Operation Lezo? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u79	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u80	Thank you very much, President. Mr Rallo, I'm sorry you're still wrong about this. They are pretending - and allow me the simile - to squeeze a lemon that is already dry and, therefore, little juice will be able to cast. They did it yesterday afternoon and they did it by blaming the Secretary of State and they come to do it today. Neither yesterday were they right nor today there is anything new that I can tell you because already voluntarily in the Senate to a question I said that I had called with a ritual and protocol formula to wish me the best and congratulate me. It was a few days before I was appointed to the post, I had not even made the changes I had to make in the Ministry of the Interior when I appointed the posts from Secretary of State down. I also tell you that there are many who remain from the previous team and others who came with me. Mr. Rallo, honestly there's nothing I can explain to you right now, there's nothing I can justify more. We have made this clear from the beginning, we have done nothing wrong, we have done nothing wrong and, more importantly, there is nothing to explain because we have given all the explanations for a long time and in all the places where we have been asked to do so. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Rallo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u82	Thank you very much, President. Minister, the SMS of the late Minister Catalá was followed by the appointment of the late Attorney General of the State and the late Prosecutor Anti-Corruption. His conversation with Gonzalez was followed by a meeting of the late Secretary of State for Security with Gonzalez's brother with interesting results. Minister, in the corrupt man's manual, I'm sure there's four damn words: judges, prosecutors, police and hacienda. Nor in their best dreams the corrupt PP could imagine an amnesty finance minister like Montoro, cojonados prosecutors like those of the reprobated Minister Catalá, judges challenged by affinity of the PP or a secretary of state of security who tends the carpet of his office to receive them. But your plan isn't going to work. Police and judicial investigations will advance, including parliamentary investigations. Tell Mr Martínez-Maillo, and tell him to stop making a fool of himself in the Committee of Inquiry into the irregular financing of the People's Party, to stop mocking this House and the citizens. Minister, you have Friday to propose the cessation of the Secretary of State for Security. If you do not, you and only you will be responsible for this strategy of police impunity in the face of the corruption of the People's Party. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u83	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u84	Thank you, President. Mr. Rallo, I understand that you are a little lost, because with so much change to your group, as Alfonso Guerra said - remember? -, you won't even know the mother who gave you birth. I also understand, Mr Rallo, that, as you are currently in a competition to see who is more on the left, that is the attitude you may have. But that you Socialists, who have been part of this nation's government, should come not to defend and not to sustain the division of powers seems to me to be very serious. I'm the first one who could have argued with him the 'and you more'. Or don't you remember any of the important terrorism-related chatter? Don't you remember? Or get to negotiations at a gas station? You don't remember? [[Applauds]] Fortunately, the rule of law is present in Spain. In Spain, with the People's Party at the head of the Government, the division of powers is respected. That's the big difference, a police investigating, prosecutors accusing and judges solving, and in the end, do you know what's going on? That whoever judges agree is in prison. That's what happened here, belong to the party that belong to and have the ideology that they have... - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIÁN ROMERO, OF THE PARLAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S LEFT, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR believe that the security in Catalonia can be maintained in an appropriate way, in a situation of alert as the present, with the limitation of ranges of squadrons that intend to impose the Spanish government? [[Applauds]] [[File number 180/000287]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u85	Question, also addressed to the Minister, by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u86	Thank you very much, President. Mr Zoido, Minister of the Interior, do you see for ideological or political reasons the call for five hundred new squadron mosses in Catalonia? Minister of the Interior, do you intend to go to the Security Board convened by the Government of the Government of Catalonia in the face of your wish? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u87	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u88	Thank you very much, President. I have the impression, Mr Rufián, that, as always, you take advantage of any opportunity, and perhaps calling for wisdom in your speeches may be pointless. Once again, it is mixing - let me tell you - the barbecues with the merinas, but you give exactly the same. Know that one thing is the call of the squares of Mossos d'Esquadra and another very different the call of the Security Board. With regard to the call for the Mossos d'Esquadra squares, you from Catalonia have not sat down to dialogue, you have announced a call for five hundred squares without meeting the planned replacement rates. That is the cause for which they have been made a requirement that they cannot do so. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Rufian, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u90	Minister, you are in Catalan, but you, who are very read, surely know it. This I teach you, if you want to see it, was introduced by a Member of yours in the Parliament of Catalonia six months ago, on October 20, 2016. [[Show a document]] And you know what I was asking for? Five hundred new squadron mossos and a new call from the Security Board. [[Applauds]] Maybe something has happened in these six or seven months for you to say all this now. I'll try to be very clear, Mr. Zoido. We ask you to resign for 1 and irresponsible Calm down, calm down, I'll be right there. [[wretched]] [[Protests]] To veto the call for five hundred new mossos d'ésquadra, to veto calls for security boards and to veto, in short, all that has to do with Catalonia at the level of security, on a level 4 terrorist alert, simply because you do not like how Catalans vote, is to be a 1 and it is to be an irresponsible one. [[wretched]] We asked him from Esquerra Republicana - calme - to return to the courthouse in which he married Fran Rivera, to return to the town hall in which he placed unspoiled streets and to reassemble parties for the Duchess of Alba, but above all not to play with the security of the citizens of Catalonia. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u91	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rufián, I'm not going to answer your insults. You just disqualify yourself. [[Applauds]] 1 Word withdrawn from the Journal of Meetings in accordance with Rules 103.1 and 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. They are two different things: one, security is something very important in each and every one of the communities for the Government of Spain, hence the efforts that are being made. The only thing that has happened is that Catalonia has been required to justify the call for 500 places because it has far exceeded the fixed replacement rate, and that is a responsibility of the Generalitat, but it is possible that we can still negotiate a solution by accumulating the rates of other sectors that could also call. But do you know where the problem is? At the Conference of Presidents last January, which was certainly not attended by any representative of Catalonia, the President of the Government and the Presidents of the various Autonomous Communities were dealing with this issue and they literally agreed that in the framework of the annual public offer of employment, special needs will be analysed in the priority sectors of the Autonomous Communities, in particular in terms of security. Therefore, Mr. Rufián, nobody came here to find out what they had to do, so resign and negotiate the places that can be convened and make it possible for a series of places to be provided in the end. Finally, the Security Board has not been convened since 2009 and I am in negotiations with Councillor Jordi Jané to reach an agreement on the agenda and fix it, but it cannot be done unilaterally. I cannot attend the meeting on day 3 because I have a meeting with three Ministers of the Interior from neighbouring countries, but let us agree on an agenda and hold the Security Board. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the next question, and pursuant to Rule 103(1) and 104(3), I ask Mr Rufián whether he withdraws word 2 from his speech. [[wretched]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u94	No, no, [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u95	The President shall take the floor in the Journal of Meetings. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF URQUIZU SANCHO IGNACIO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND DEPORT: ARE YOU GOING TO SUPPRISE IN THE NEXT CONVOCATION THE PROVISIONS DIFFICULTING STUDENTS ACCESS AND MAINTENANCE OF THE BECAUSES? [[File number 180/00283]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u96	We continue with the questions addressed... [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Question by Mr Ignacio Urquizu Sancho, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, at the moment there are many students and many families pending a royal decree of scholarships and study aid and we would like to know whether they are going to rectify their scholarship policy, whether they are going to persist in everything they have been doing since 2012 in terms of scholarships and study aid. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u98	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr Urquizu, for this government, and I dare say that for all governments, the right to education and equal opportunities are a priority, and within equal opportunities the best instrument of this government, and I dare say to all governments, is the establishment of a state system of scholarships and study aid to enable those who have talent and the willingness to study, beyond the mandatory and free stages, to do so regardless of their economic situation. Therefore, no one in Spain should stop studying for economic reasons and therefore, Mr Urquizu, in the draft General Budgets of the State for 2017, which will be approved - I hope - by the Senate, the highest allocation of the historical series of the state system of scholarships and study aids is foreseen: 1420 million euros, which, complemented by others that reach 100 million euros, gives the figure of 1520 million euros. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. 2 Word withdrawn from the Journal of Meetings in accordance with Rules 103.1 and 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Urquizu.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u101	Minister, the data don't say that, reality doesn't say that. Since you govern, much less money is spent on scholarships than was spent in 2011; that is, one thing is what is budgeted and another what is spent, and you spend less. Today we are on 21 June and that royal decree has not yet been published when it was previously made in April and on one occasion in May. Do you know how uncertain there is for many families who do not know under what economic conditions they will study next year, in a few months? I mean, we're on June 21st, and you haven't called that royal decree yet. Since you govern what's going on, getting a scholarship is no longer a subjective right. You have prioritized budgetary stability and austerity to get a scholarship because for you austerity is more important than equality and so since 2012 you have changed the rules of the game. Since you govern, in 2013 you have changed the scholarship system by which there is not only a fixed part and another variable - which adds more uncertainty - but you have introduced so many restrictions that if in a family with 8500 euros you receive a social rental aid or the PIVE plan of 1700 euros, that student loses his scholarship, and I am talking to you about a real case. Since you govern - since 2013 - you have changed the scholarship system, so there is not only a fixed part and another variable, which adds more uncertainty, but you have introduced so many restrictions that in a family with 8500 euros, if you receive a social rental aid or the PIVE plan of 1700 euros, the student loses his scholarship. And I'm talking to you about a real case. Since you rule there's less money, fewer rights and more restrictions. That is why the CRUE, in 2014, told us that 100,000 students had had to leave school and that is why we know - and it is a fact from your government, you have given it to us - that from 2012 until today 120,000 students will have to return their scholarships. That is what has happened since you ruled, because for you equality is not a priority, because to you - and that is what happens - a society in which there is inequality does not move you. And we believe that a society that tolerates certain levels of inequality is a society that does not respect itself. So what we are asking you to do is to rectify in terms of scholarships, to return the rights to students, to increase budgets with decent scholarships and, therefore, to start fighting the social drama that you have created with the management of the crisis. We care about equality, you don't. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u102	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u103	Madam President. Mr. Urquizu, I see that the new PSOE is in the usual, empty words, empty words. You have the monopoly of the heart, only you care about equality. Does what happened to your scholarship system know what it was? That it was unsustainable. You painted a figure and then where did it come from? Wherever you go. [[Mr Urquizu Sancho makes negative gestures]] Yeah, he left a huge hole in the scholarship system. And when the finance minister used to talk about the state's accumulated deficit, that's where you had it, among other things. Why? Because they painted figures that they didn't meet. What have we tried? What do we intend to do? To unite the subjective right of scholarships with a sustainable system, and that is what we are doing. As regards the establishment of performance criteria, performance criteria have always been established in Spain. That's not what I'm saying, Mrs. San Segundo said that, and anyone who knows how the scholarship system is going in Spain says that. And today the Andalusian Junta, their party mates, are making a proposal that where are you going? Not only to economic conditions, but also to academic performance. Therefore, that is normal, Mr Urquizu. [[Mr Urquizu Sancho makes negative gestures]] The fact, Mr Urquizu, of asking for the return of money from those scholarships that have not been well used is normal. We have an obligation in the General Budgets of the State so that the one who has not fulfilled the conditions has to return it, because the money of the scholarships is money of all the Spaniards, money that we deliver as an investment for the future. It is very important to do so, but to those who do not comply, Mr Urquizu, the obligation we have is to ask him to be reinstated. 1,47 % in the last course... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u104	Thank you very much. - OF THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND DEPORT: WHAT PROVISIONS DO THE GOVERNMENT HAVE TO RECOGNIZE THE HISTORY OF PHILOSOPHY AS OBLIGATIVE ASSIGNATION IN BACHILLERATO 2 AS THE LOMSE RELEVED THE TEACHING OF PHILOSOPHY TO AN LOWER SCHEDULE TO PURSUANT TO THE IMPORTANCE IN THE TRAINING OF THE LUMNATE? [[File number 180/00274]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u105	He also asked the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. Question by Mr Miguel Anxo Elías Fernández Bello, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u106	Thank you very much, President. Minister, what is the Government's willingness to recover Philosophy as a compulsory subject in high school?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u107	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u108	Madam President, Mr Fernández, let us differentiate between the academic treatment of Philosophy and the History of Philosophy. The subject of Philosophy, which is taught in the first baccalaureate course, includes among its objectives to provide tools such as the reflective critical attitude, which teaches students not to admit ideas that have not been rigorously analyzed and evidenced, and the knowledge to think, reason and argue with foundation, coherence and form. Therefore, Philosophy, in the first, and in the second, History of Philosophy, which any autonomous community can establish as mandatory within the block of specific subjects of the second, since the current regulations allow it. Thus, it is not the Ministry of Education, it is not this Government that decides whether to impart History of philosophy in 2nd high school, but it is the autonomous communities themselves and the educational institutions that make that decision today.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Fernández Bello.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u110	Minister, be you expedient, diligent, determined, resolved, because we are accustomed again and again to a flatus voice nominalist, you know, to the political voice of the People's Party, which is empty word, absent from real commitments. Now, without further delay and without further delay, recover the subject of Philosophy as a compulsory trunk in 2nd high school, correct the destabilization of the Lomce and that sad-remembered minister and do so already for the next course. Do not continue to denigrate for any longer the culture of knowledge and humanity in all its extent. Why do you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, of the world of ideas, of the world of knowledge and intelligence? You fear philosophy. If not, correct and allow us to improve our condition as human beings. They allow philosophy to contribute from teaching to laying the practical foundations for civilization to be based on humanity. As the Doxa Group of Philosophy, founded in Lugo, says - and it is a cry that shares the Aula Castelao of Philosophy and the Spanish Network of Philosophy, the whole academic community - the challenges of a complex, changing and uncertain contemporary world require providing young people with solid conceptual instruments to understand the profound crises we face and to build new ethical paradigms, and that is why philosophy is here. You follow, Minister, the recommendations of UNESCO, which gives philosophy a fundamental formative role and defends that philosophy must be part of the basic curriculum of students in all the educational systems of the world. You seek, Minister, a quality and democratic education, something that cannot exist without the knowledge of philosophy. And it already paralyzes the terminal process that affects philosophy in teaching, because you, Minister, and the People's Party government can do so by restoring this discipline to its proper place in academic studies. Let us remember, Minister of Education, that phrase of the French philosopher Étienne Gilson, who was a scholastic and a neotomist very far from me: 'Philosophy always burys its buryers'. Don't be you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u111	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u112	Thank you very much. I'll try not to get what you wanted to happen to me. Look, Mr.Fernández, in the educational pact, which is currently in the subcommission, the other day, my good friend and admired Fernando Savater said one thing I share: Education should not only be learning to earn a living but to learn to explore life humanly. I am a tax collector at the end of my education, and I remember here my professor of Philosophy, Mr. Giménez-Rico, who taught me so much, but you do not tell me what I can do. I, Minister of Education - I'll explain it to you - can do two things. One of two, or you give me more skills so you can establish more truncal subjects or tell me what I take as mandatory truncal subjects in 2nd high school. What do I take off? History of Spain? Language and Literature? Third language? Latin Quito or Business Knowledge Quito? [[Applauds]] Tell me. You can't tell me to do this without telling me what I take out as a truncated 2nd grade subject or what skills you give me as a minister of education. It is an optional competence of the Autonomous Communities. We have an autonomous system with which I am sure you agree. Well, it's the autonomous communities and schools that can impose it. If I imposed it, I'd break the system, Mr. Fernández. Now there is an educational pact in progress and if you want to propose that I will study it with great pleasure. Thank you for your intervention. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA AINA VIDAL SÁEZ, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: DOES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY CREATE THAT 430 EUROS FOR ME ARE THE SOLUTION FOR CRONIC UNEMPLOYMENT FOR THE PEOPLE AND YOUNG PEOPLE IN OUR COUNTRY? [[File number 180/000277]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u113	Question to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. Question by Mrs Aina Vidal Sáez, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u114	Minister, do you believe that EUR 430 is the solution to the chronic unemployment suffered by young people in our country?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u115	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, the fight against youth unemployment is the great objective of Spanish society and is the responsibility of all and the responsibility of all to unite commitment and also proposals. From the beginning this government fought youth unemployment seeking consensus, and the first social pact of the previous legislature was precisely the Youth Entrepreneurship and Employment Strategy, where the autonomous communities, the social partners, all public administrations and civil society put the best of our knowledge to develop a hundred measures for employment among young people. To this was added in the year 2013 the youth guarantee, which was a battle that President Rajoy gave so that Europe also cared about the present and the future of young people. Those two great paths to employment among young people are working in our country. More than two million young people have had the opportunity to have training, entrepreneurship or employment through these two initiatives that we launched in 2013, and that has made it possible that today - although much remains to be done, Your Honor - we can say that in four years the youth unemployment rate has fallen by 15 points in our country, that there are 500 000 young people unemployed less than in 2011 and, most importantly, that there is an intense job creation among young people at a rate of almost 10% when the overall rate grows at a rate of more than 3%. Therefore, we are on the path to young people's opportunities and there I also hope that Podemos will come up with new proposals to continue to add. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vidal Sáez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u118	Talking about young people and working today is talking about numbers of shame. Young people are extremely precarious thanks to their reforms, minister. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u119	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u120	His Government has taken us on with the youth guarantee, already from the beginning, in fact. It seems that we did not have enough with the temporality, the partiality, the non-work practices, the low wages and all the labor poverty that their reforms have brought us, which also now we have to go with the gas experiments of the hand of Citizens; of Citizens alone, because until yesterday they had not even spoken with the social agents. It offers us an aid that also sounds like charity and a cheap owner, minister; cheap and with very little travel. Your check is born and dies to cover headlines, which you don't need. As you have said, it is possible that only 4% of young people who are not studying and who have no work, but who also lack future expectations because eighteen months, Minister - and I say to you, that I am Catalan - are passing by. There are 430 euros, 500 million in total, coming out of the general budgets, that is, out of the pockets of everyone. [[Rumors.- Several Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group make negative gestures]] What a nice nut turn,.. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u121	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u122	...that is, today, with our own money we will pay our own precariousness, because this is what we are talking about. Your check allows me to be hired, for example, for 200 euros, because with your help we are already going to supplement it. [[Rumors]] It is a subsidy to precariousness that you propose to us. Those who pay taxes - who, moreover, already know who they are and who they are not - today we will have to subsidize what they stop paying for their labor reform; a business, minister. You were recently seen with your French counterpart, Mrs Muriel Pénicaud. Let me suggest a question for you the next time you see her. Ask the French minister about the scholarship-salary program linked to continuing to study that they are implementing, because it is possible to make a youth guarantee without precariousing; it is possible, of course, without the People's Party, this is evident. We don't want paydays, minister, we just want stable work. [[Rumors]] What we want today is not to have to pay our own misery; we do not want their charity. What we want, basically, is to be able to pay our lives and earn our lives with our own work, and in this case, you do yours and stop precarizing our lives. Let me end with a reflection: young employment does not exist; employment is either worthy or not. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u123	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u124	Thank you very much, Madam President. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Madam Member of the Commission, we have to study this House a little, because, look, there are 565,000 young people in Spain who have not completed compulsory secondary education. [[Laughter]] Training them is therefore vital for them to return to the labour market, and the proposal we have made in the social dialogue and which we have agreed with Citizens is a direct complementary aid to young people of EUR 430 in the framework of dual vocational training, through the training and learning contract, for young people to study and work at the same time. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u125	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u126	And the salary paid by the company will be added. Look, Your Honor, Europe will pay for it with European funds and not with the General Budgets of the State. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] Therefore, Your Honor, study a little more. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DAUGHTER'S WOMEN'S ANA MARIA BOTELLA GOMEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ECONOMY, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS: DOES THE MINISTER OF ECONOMY, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS HAVE ANY RESPONSIBILITY WITH THE PEOPLE'S BANK? [[File number 180/00284]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u127	Questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness. First of all, a question from Mrs Ana María Botella Gómez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u128	Thank you, President. Does the Minister of Economy have any responsibility for what happened to the People's Bank? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u129	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, as I had occasion to present in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u131	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u132	... the resolution of the People's Bank is the result of a declaration of inadmissibility made by the European Central Bank, which is the sole supervisor. For its part, decisions on when and how to act in the face of the entity's problems depend on the Single Resolution Board. It is this body that determines whether there are reasonable alternatives or feasible private solutions and whether there is a general interest. If these three conditions are given, i.e. unfeasibility, not possible private solutions and there is a general interest to be protected, the Single Board also decides which instruments are at its disposal to use. And only when the Single Board has designed the action plan is when the national body - in our case the FROB - intervenes to implement the agreed measures; that is, the FROB only acts as a result of an express instruction from the board. This procedure, ladies and gentlemen, is the one laid down in the directive and resolution regulation which was adopted in 2014 and which is the fundamental pillar of the Single Resolution Mechanism and the banking union. In Spain it was transposed through a law, the Law on Recovery and Resolution, adopted by this House in June 2015.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u133	Thank you very much. Go ahead, Mrs. Botella.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u134	Mr Minister, trust is a key feeling in the financial system and the fall of the People is less confident. The abrupt liquidation of the sixth Spanish bank in one night, the contradictory statements of its managers, of the supervisory and regulatory authorities and of the members of the government undermine the confidence and efforts of recovery of the Spanish financial system, a disaster for which you declare yourself not responsible, good proof of your irresponsibility in the management of this new banking crisis in Spain, covered by the international press. Mr De Guindos, we demand your responsibility and know to the last of your movements and efforts in relation to the collapse of the People's Bank, for the four hundred thousand families that have lost their investments; for the ten thousand six hundred affected workers, many of them trapped in credits offered by the People's own for the purchase of shares that, unfortunately, are no longer worth anything; for the four million affected customers, the financial instability and the unknown of the monetization of the People's tax credits that can cost us Spanish taxpayers the cold of EUR 2 billion. We demand your responsibility not for the last night or the last days but for the last five years. You said that the bank bailout would not cost a public euro - you said in the past - and the Bank of Spain already amounts to EUR 60 billion to pay for all taxpayers. Mr. De Guindos, you have no credibility. Mr Rajoy appointed him Minister of Economy when he had just presided over Lehman Brothers Spain; a mistake, a mistake only surpassed by the decision to keep him in office today, especially after his management of Bankia. In fact, in 2012 he was named as the worst economic minister in the Financial Times ranking. Minister, you have gained momentum, because of your special form of economic governance, to enter through the large door of the Committee of Inquiry that this Parliament has to investigate the financial crisis. Of course, with your work, we will never finish working in this Commission. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u135	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, I repeat to you again, the government has no powers and therefore does not intervene in the supervision or resolution of financial institutions. As I said earlier, FROB is limited to implementing the action plan designed by the Single Resolution Board. Moreover, what is relevant is that in the case of the People's Bank the solution that has been applied has avoided having to make use of any kind of public money and has not generated any kind of contagion, Your Honor. In turn, it has made it possible to protect all depositors, including more than one million households, and ordinary creditors. The alternative, Your Honor, would have been ordinary creditor competition, an option that would have generated much more uncertainty and enormous problems for depositors. With regard to the valuation, I can repeat to you - and I think it is public, moreover - that the last Eurogroup was very positive about how the resolution of the People's Bank and the difference that existed between our banking system and that of other countries had occurred. That is why Spain is growing almost three times as much as all those countries that have not carried out any kind of restructuring or resolution of their entities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u137	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GARZON SPINOSA ALBERTO, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF ECONOMY, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT EXPLAIN THAT THE SPAIN BANK IS LOSSING TO 60613 MILLION EUROS OF THE BANKING REVENUE WHEN, SECOND YOUR STATEMENTS, IT WAS NOT TO COST OR A EURO TO THE CONTRIBUTOR? [[File number 180/00286]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u138	Question also addressed to the Minister of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness, Mr Alberto Garzón Espinosa, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, how does the Government explain that the Bank of Spain loses EUR 60 billion if the Government, in successive statements, had said that it would not cost a euro? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u140	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Garzón, the report of the Bank of Spain says that direct aid has been granted by the FROB in the amount of just over EUR 56 billion: EUR 16 billion by the previous government and EUR 40 billion - in round figures - by the current one. These figures coincide with the calculations of the FROB and the Court of Auditors themselves. The FROB has now recovered almost €7 billion from dividends, commissions, interest and sales, including a Bankia package. In addition, some 600 million 'hulls' of Ceiss are still to be entered and, logically, the 65 % - in round figures - that we have of Bankia and BMN, whose sale will be carried out with the aim of maximising the recovery of the aid. It should also be borne in mind that the nationalised entities have returned more than EUR 9 billion, through compensation to shareholders, from the departure to Bankia Stock Exchange and to the preferentialists. This would certainly not have been possible without the rescue, because the entities would not have had the means to return that money to the savers in a competitive situation.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Garzón, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u143	Minister, the Court of Auditors, another institution that has also quantified the rescue, estimates that some EUR 122 billion has been invested, of which already EUR 60 000 - the exact amount indicated by the Bank of Spain - would have been lost absolutely. Minister, I am one of those who believes that the economy is not a science for use, such as Newtonian physics and, therefore, the calculation can be unpredictable, but the slight deviation between zero euros and 60 billion euros seems to me to be excessive even for a People's Party government. Moreover, this contrasts with many of the policies being pursued by the People's Party. It draws attention to the fact that this calculation error always happens in favour of them. Stress tests, for example; those same tests done in the European Union that said that now broken banks were with an absolutely enviable nature of solvency. I therefore believe that we have a problem of calculation, but also a political problem, because it contrasts no longer only with cuts in health, education, pensions and public services in general, but also with the level and policy of aid that this government makes according to which economic actor. You are a bit of Adam Smith for the poor - you know, do nothing; with the small and medium-sized company that breaks down, do nothing; with the dispossessed, do nothing - but suddenly you are Keynesians for the rich, that is, suddenly you grant lost in-depth aid, guarantees, guarantees and liquidity injections. The financial system is enriched by your policies and you are even able to make that not count in the deficit because you come to agreements with the European Commission. Similarly, military spending can be increased without damaging the excessive deficit procedure, but it would add to an increase in health or education. What's making all this clear to us? It is showing us that this is not a technical problem, that this is not an economic problem, this is a problem of political will. There are proposals to invest that money in any other branch of political intervention that could generate jobs, but you have not chosen that option, you have chosen another. That is not inevitable, Adam Smith has not brought him or any god of any kind; that is a political and ideological option of his Government and we believe it is profoundly wrong. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u144	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u145	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Garzón, I remember it was in 2012 when you made an inquiry and we discussed this issue. I hope that you will again ask me about this and, with more time than the answer to a question, we will be able to analyse the restructuring of the Spanish financial system. I will simply tell you a number of questions. First of all, the banking sector has undergone a deep consolidation and restructuring that has caused no doubts today and solutions such as those of the People's Bank are possible today while they would never have been in 2012. Secondly, if we looked at the restructuring of the sector in a context of general equilibrium, that is, what would have happened if we had not acted, what would have happened was that the old savings banks would have entered into competition. This would have added an additional element of mistrust that would have had a truly devastating effect on the Spanish economy and we would have had a fall in GDP not by 9% but by much more and a much higher impact on employment, because it would have even affected the financing of the Spanish economy more intensively. I sincerely believe that if there had been no rescue from the old savings banks, the rescue in Spain would not have been enough and Spain would have come out of the euro, which is perhaps what you were looking for ultimately. Therefore, the effect on financial stability and the economic recovery of the rescue cannot only be underestimated. The rescue has been the differential factor by which Spain today grows the triple that the countries of our environment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: HOW IS THE SOCIAL COMMITMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT IN THE GENERAL BUDGETS OF THE STATE TO THE CHALLENGES AND SOCIAL CHALLENGES TO BE TAKEN IN 2017? [[File number 180/000270]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u146	Question to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. Question by Mr Javier Maroto Aranzábal, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, economic growth and job creation are undoubtedly the best tools to guarantee social policies, public services. The work carried out by the Government in these areas is evident, Spain ranks in the growth ranking above Japan, the United Kingdom, Italy, France or Germany and the Government's effort to create jobs exceeds the ratio of half a million jobs per year. That data is very important. If we add to that the effort made in terms of consensus between different sensibilities to reach a budget agreement, we have the best tools, but not to talk only about numbers, but to translate it into how that happens to people. His ministry talks about people, and that is why we want to ask him how all this effort comes about in terms of economic creation, job creation and agreement and dialogue between different political parties for the adoption of a budget to the people who need it most; how it reaches the elderly, the pensioners; how it reaches the unemployed; how it reaches the dependency; how it reaches the most vulnerable minors; how it gets, in terms of education and health, through the autonomous communities and, above all - and let me update it - how it reaches the victims of gender violence. As you know, all political parties, without exception, are doing an unholy and lofty job of giving life and content to that State Pact against Gender Violence. It is very important that the victims, who do not understand the acronyms, also feel the encouragement of the Government in its commitment to active policies and, of course, also with budgetary resources. All that is talking about people and all that depends to a large extent on your ministry, hence the question we ask you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u148	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, that's right. The Spaniards have come a long way towards recovery and we have achieved it together. We have been growing economically at 3% for almost four years, and we are at the head of the euro area countries. We have created an average of five hundred thousand jobs a year and thus recovered 60% of the jobs that destroyed the crisis. This is the time when more women work in the history of Spain, because we are concerned about equality, women's talent and people. As you said, employment is the guarantee that we can continue to maintain the welfare state; today in Spain there are almost 14 million Spaniards who receive some kind of benefit and employment is the best social policy for no one to stay behind. Thanks to sustained growth we have been able to approve the most social General State Budgets of our recent history; 6 out of 10 euros are for people, because people are the priority of this government, people are the protagonists of these budgets. For our elderly people and their pensions we have allocated more than EUR 139 billion, 30 billion more than in 2011; for the unemployed and their families we have allocated EUR 18 billion for unemployment benefits; for the care of dependent people of all ages and in all corners of Spain we have occupied EUR 1355 million, 102 million more than last year; for families and child poverty we have invested EUR 342 million, so that everyone who needs it and no one stays behind, that everyone has a chance; and for the fight against gender-based violence, we have dedicated more than EUR 266 million from different ministries. In just seven months, the budget of the government delegation has increased by 4.5%, more than the Socialist Party government allocated in 2011. Finally, this budget provides for additional funding, designed for people, of 5386 million, for the autonomous communities, to invest it in what really matters, which is people, to invest it in social policies, health and education. Therefore, this Government, with seven more political parties, has, since listening, dialogue and agreement, obtained budgets designed for people. It is a budget with a social soul and it is a budget that guarantees the well-being of all Spaniards. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u150	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u151	We shall now proceed to address the appeals addressed to the Government. First, urgent appeal by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea on the Government's refusal to equalize paternity and maternity leave in an intransferable manner. For your defence, Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u152	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all and good morning, Minister. On October 18, 2016, this House passed a non-law proposal to make maternity and paternity leave in cases of birth, adoption and reception equal, non-transferable and 100 per cent remunerated. This non-law proposal was passed, and his party then abstained. When this GNP was introduced, already as a legislative proposal, the Government vetoed it, preventing it from being debated in this House, not once but twice, and the first on 8 March, historically known as Working Women's Day. Don't tell me, Minister, you don't see the irony in this. I return to this rostrum to explain the importance for equality, for our productive model and for our girls and boys that the proposed law of the PPiiNA comes forward precisely as such, as a proposed law, and the right to care for and to be equal workers is guaranteed by virtue of both the Constitution and the mandate of the Equality Act and the mandate of this House last October. Madam Minister, in Spain women workers are not workers on equal terms with men workers, because they weigh on them improper gender stereotypes and mandates of this century that hinder full equality in the field of employment. I offer you data from the INE and the Economic and Social Council, both state institutions. The occupation of women between the ages of 25 and 60 is 14.2% lower than that of men. Women with less training gain less access to the labour market and do so under worse conditions - this should not be new to them -. Not only is there a gender gap in occupation, there is also a gender gap in wages, because women earn an average of 23.25 less than men. These are data from the 2016 General Workers Union. And by the way, they charge him for doing exactly the same job. The ESC notes that one of the main characteristics of female employment in Spain is the highest part-time employment weight, 25.2 % for women compared to 7.9 % for men, in 2015 data. But in addition, part-time work by women was 60.1% involuntary; the EU average is 25.7%. What this means - I translate it - is that six out of every ten women in this country are engaged in part-time employment in an involuntary manner, because they have no other remedy. Let me now read you a paragraph in the ESC report. The cost of opportunity to leave or remain out of the labour market is lower for women, so that, of course, in the context of unequal attribution of value to the most feminized jobs, and unequal distribution and assumption of gender-based care tasks, and in the context of a system of values and attitudes that drives the assumption of these roles by the female gender, it is more efficient for decision-making units, in general families, than in case of need or difficulty in reconciling it is women who leave the market. Look, I'm gonna translate it for you. As women's work is worse paid, it is more precarious and it continues to be done incidentally for the real work of women, and this is an irony, which would be motherhood, it is we who sacrifice our professional career, our autonomy and economic independence and our decision-making capacity to take care. Women are perceived as high-risk workers, because we can become pregnant, and that bothers a certain sector of entrepreneurship; at the same time women who want to be mothers are penalized for the quality and development of their employment because there is no corresponding reconciliation of household tasks and care and upbringing. Having a lower wage is not only a problem of the present, Minister, having a lower wage is a problem of the future, because women's pensions are going to be lower, their future poverty is going to be greater. That is, those who work do so for less wages, with worse conditions and less decent retirement expectations, all because of the incidence of motherhood as a possible risk factor and negative factor in their working life and social perception. If the Economic and Social Council makes a diagnosis and says that inequality creates difficulties in working life and in the equality of women, and places reconciliation and care for dependence as the problem for Spanish women to be workers if we wish to do so fully, why has her Government cut attention to dependent people in each and every one of the last General Budgets of the State? Why does your Government repeatedly veto a law that seeks to equalize the responsibility of both parents or caregivers in the immediate upbringing of birth, adoption and reception so that these permits are equal, non-transferable and remunerated to 100 per cent, so that women and men are not looked at differently in the labour market? I continue to raise economic and social realities underlying the employment situation of women. You will have seen in the press just a few days ago, Minister, the data on gender inequality in the latest ILO report, which tells us that marital status, conciliation or stereotypes influence both women's employment and the economic development of countries. That is to say, gender stereotypes - indeed, there is a European Parliament resolution of 12 March 2013 on the elimination of gender stereotypes in the European Union - and not just the fact that a country is better or worse economically, condition women's ability to work. Having paid employment outside the home is not only a form of economic livelihood; it is also a key factor for development, for independence, for women's autonomy. Having a paid job can give us independence, and surely you will have thought - and if not, surely your partner, the Minister of Equality, who can tell you - about the tremendous complications that women who suffer from violence, because of being women, have with an unequal work situation, so that they can get out of that situation when there is an economic dependence on the abuser, when there is also economic violence. So if motherhood hinders women's paid employment conditions, if gender roles dictate that women are the ones who care for creatures and dependents, if their Government dismantles resources in support of dependency, if their Government vetoes the law that would help eliminate the risk of female motherhood in the field of employment, with all these things my group fears that their Government actually believes in these gender stereotypes, which are the cause of inequality and violence for women, and that they also condemn men to a model of being man in an inexpressive way, without being able to access or have the right to affection, emotions and to have a more aggressive role in all areas of life. I want to think that it is only a few members of your bench - as we saw last week - who could be within these gender stereotypes. I want to think that most of your party's bench, as well as your government, do not share gender stereotypes, although what we are seeing makes us think so. [[Applauds]] As this is a conversation, Minister, I do not want to end this interpellation without advancing what I believe the arguments can be, because this has been given to us, from that possible veto and from those reluctances to debate here a proposal for a law so that the permits are equal, non-transferable and remunerated to one hundred percent. I think that what you are going to answer to me will refer to the economic reasons, the few resources, the spending ceiling or other figures that the Platform for Equal and Intransferable Birth, Reception and Adoption Permits, the PPiiNA, has been dismantling for a few years. But then I will have to answer you again by insisting that this is not a matter of money, but of will, political ideology and recognition of rights. It is a question of whether they are on equal employment or not; whether they are on stereotypes that support structural inequality and violence or not; whether they are on the right of men to care and upbringing or not; whether they are on what Spanish society today demands, that of the twenty-first century, or not. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u153	I give the floor to the Minister for Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u154	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, thank you for the tone of your speech. Let me tell you that the analysis you have made of reality is a partial analysis, but let us talk about data, facts, the reality that our country is experiencing today. Both you and I believe in equal opportunities, in a society of opportunities for all; we believe in the importance of talent, which is not sex or age, and I also say that this government wants this country to compete with the best it has, talent, which is the biggest strategic asset that companies have and that it also has Spain. Therefore, having all the talent means giving equal opportunities to men and women, and the first thing we have to do to ask for equal maternity and paternity leave is to offer men and women in this country a job. So the equality you say always starts with employment, and on employment issues I think we can say humbly that thanks to the efforts of Spanish society we have made much progress in recent years since the recovery. [[The lady]] You know as well as I do that today's Spain - the 21st century, 2017 - is Spain that creates employment and that besides employment has arrived to stay. Notice, in recent years Spanish society has made it possible to create 2 200 000 jobs in this country, to have recovered two out of three jobs destroyed by the crisis, to have made it possible for the job that comes back with the recovery to be of higher quality than the one that went away with the crisis: 72% of indefinite employment has recovered and only 33% of temporary employment. Besides, you were telling me about partiality. The jobs recovered are 91% full-time, so we are moving in the right direction, which is the great confidence and hope of the Spaniards who unfortunately still remain in unemployment, who want and deserve to work, and whom we must continue to give among all opportunities. Therefore, first, to achieve equality we need access to employment. Ladies and gentlemen, the message given to women by the last left-wing government we had in this country - which was responsible for managing the first phase of the crisis - was to send 1,382,000 women to unemployment; that was the reality of a left-wing government. With this government, with the government of the People's Party and Mariano Rajoy, not only has all the female employment destroyed by the crisis recovered, but today in Spain there are more women working than ever in our history - 8.5 million women working in Spain - so according to his words and his reflections - concluding with his statement - we could say that the People's Party is the most feminist party in Spain's history. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we know that we have many gaps to overcome for women in Spain; we have a long way to go, but it is true that there are more women working in employment than ever before. [[Rumors]] As I told them a gap to recover and to overcome is that of activity. Well, the activity rate among women has increased by 15 points since 1996. You were talking to me about the wage gap, which I think concerns me very much, so I have this issue as a debate and as a proposal for social dialogue, but the reality tells us - it's the data, Your Honor - that since 2012 the wage gap has been reduced by 4 points in Spain, being below the European average. Note: 0.5 points below that of France, 6 points below that of the United Kingdom and 7 points below the German. So something is doing well for Spanish society, and it is cutting the gaps. And speaking of gaps, it will not deny that we have also made it possible in this House to cut the pension gap. Historically in our country, women have had a lower pension than men, because they have borne the burden of caring for the home and the elderly, which is why they have had shorter contributory careers and therefore lower pensions. Well, since 2016, there have been 220 000 women in Spain who receive a pension supplement of up to 15% to have more dignified and equal pensions than men in Spain, breaking the pension gap, which has caused so much pain to Spanish women. Those 220 000 women who have received a pension supplement since 2016 have made it possible for only one year and months to reduce the pension gap by 11 points in Spain. So we have a way to go, but we're going in the right direction. I now turn to the subject that you are bringing to the debate today: equality in maternity and paternity leave. Believe me, I am very surprised that you brought this issue as an inquiry, when just six months ago we approved in this House to double the period of paternity leave, going from two to four weeks. We have done so in accordance with a pact that we had in the legislature with the Citizens' Group and we are proud to have done so, because no one refuses to give women more opportunity in the labour market and to progressively equalize paternity and maternity leave in this country. Therefore, I do not know whether it has been a mistake to formulate your inquiry, whether it is a party instrument, let me say it with respect, because you like to play a lot with the concepts of equality, conciliation and co-responsibility, as if the others do not agree perfectly with those great country objectives. Your responsibility and mine as members of this House is to build consensus, and we are fundamentally in agreement with this aim. I am therefore surprised that you have brought this initiative to this House. I encourage you to agree. You spoke of the non-legislative proposal that was debated in this House, presented by your group, calling for a comprehensive reform of the system of paternity and maternity leave and benefits for the care and care of minors in the event of birth, adoption or reception, and you know very well that the People's Party shares that great goal. My colleague Carolina Spain said so very well and was very clear in defending the position of the People's Parliamentary Group. He said: we absolutely agree with that motion the People's Party as the rest of the groups in this House, because the great objective of this legislature, and we carry it in our investiture pact - she said and I repeat - is to equalize paternity and maternity leave in the coming years. We took the first step in January. In addition, as I was saying on the subject of equal opportunities for women and men in the labour market, in terms of paternity and maternity leave, thanks to parliamentary groups from the 2012-2015 parliamentary term, we were able to highlight in the subcommittee for the rationalization study and timetables that this measure was also key to overcoming some difficulties that women had in staying, not only to arrive, in the labour market, and there was unanimity of all groups. Moreover, according to comparative law, this initiative of progressive equalization of maternity and paternity leave is shared by all the countries in our environment, and has also been a debate not of today, but of the last decade. Therefore nothing new comes to us, but a great goal that we all want to share. There are no discrepancies in the target. What we have done this week, this legislature and this year 2017 is to take the first step, doubling paternity permits with respect to what previously existed, and we want to continue working in that direction. But the Government, apart from having great objectives, has a great responsibility, and it is to reconcile and articulate a model of sustainability of our public accounts, and to pay attention to the great public services of this country such as health, education, social services and pensions of our elders, which we have made an effort especially thinking of those of women. That is why it is also a matter of being responsible for taking new measures that will have a high economic cost. We know that it is not a cost, but it is an investment, but we also have to be responsible for that. Your Honor, I encourage you that when this inquiry becomes a motion, it will bring possible proposals to this House, concrete proposals from the Group of the European People's Party that can be taken up in the economic environment that our country is experiencing today, on the understanding that we agree that paternity and maternity leave must be progressively equated, but you also acknowledge that we have made a great effort in 2016 and 2017 to enhance this equality by doubling the two- to four-week leave, which came into force earlier this year. Firstly, employment, and secondly, that better employment also in terms of equality between men and women to maintain the job, and that Spanish women continue to have a decent career. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u155	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Fernández Castañón, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u156	Madam Minister, although we are grateful for the cordial tone, I will not resist. I quote from your speech a moment ago: employment has come to stay. I would keep it as an appointment and let the silence of this House speak for itself. The job has come to stay. The truth is that from here I'm going to keep that tone that I was grateful for, even though - it was already happening before in one of the oral questions with one of our companions - sometimes they argue that when we disagree we're wrong or we're interfering or we're mixing things like equality, co-responsibility and conciliation, for example. It's hard to keep that tone, but it's still my pretence, despite some of the biased things that have been heard. It is precisely because we think we have a common objective that we are going to do so. I am not going to talk to you about employment, and precisely because we are talking about the wage gap, about care and the situation of women's employment, about how the previous government's labour reform has affected feminized sectors, but if you want you can ask Las Kellys, although they tell you a lot, the truth. You see, Minister, with my words I will not say in any way that the People's Party is feminist, not with my words; you will not be able to say it either with my words as long as we continue to work with a wage gap. Then there is no feminism. As long as we keep going out of the market or being in the market with double and triple days that we have to reconcile with care, there is no feminism. As long as support for the care of dependents is still denied, there is no feminism, Minister. [[Applauds]] If men, if men do not care, there is no feminism, minister. If there is no time, if we do not have time for that reconciliation and co-responsibility, which are two words that seem so beautiful to you that they do day D, in fact, there is no feminism. I was talking about the four-week leave, which they have approved not so much by an agreement as because this was already by law for a few years, it was already something that had been approved at the time and that had to be put into effect. I was talking about that four-week leave, which is neither egalitarian nor intransferable, it's a month coming to be that the other parent, the parent fundamentally, is helping to change diapers for a month. This is not what we are proposing. What we are proposing, what the PPiiNA has been proposing for eleven years - so when it says that this is nothing new of course it is not, the penalty is that we have to keep talking about it - it is that the permits are equal, non-transferable, 100 per cent paid, and that having a family life and engaging in parenting for a while is not a cost especially for women in this country. What we are talking about and what we have to be serious about is precisely why, and do not brag suddenly because now there is a law and there is a permit that has gone up to four weeks because it was initially two. What they've been up for is two weeks. By the way, since we are, Minister, that permission is not necessarily consecutive. Since we talked about the permission of the four weeks, and although I did not intend to bring it to this inquiry, let it be the first two initial weeks and the next two weeks that will be to dispose the other parent when it considers, because so perhaps we are making this proposal more feasible, more possible, more tangible and more sustainable in which the PPiiNA has been working, I say, eleven years. [[Applauds]] I imagine, Minister, that when you tell me about being responsible, you are thinking, I suppose, not of Mr Montoro's fiscal amnesty, declared unconstitutional and that it involves a loss of billions of euros for the public coffers, or of the bank bailout, of which we assume we are not going to recover 60 billion. If you compare these figures of money lost in privileging the powerful - I don't go into corruption anymore - with what it is hard to guarantee a right that also improves the country's economy and will make that job more egalitarian, reverses in the state's coffers and we can talk in a future of retirements and not of unworthy pensions for women, I imagine that when you talk about responsibility you are not thinking of all these examples, but you are understanding that this proposal that we want to bring here and that they are doing nothing but vetoing is sustainable and reliable. [[Applauds]] I close, Minister, hoping that that glove you threw at us is really for us to get to work on this. If we agree, if there are no discrepancies, if we are concerned about this, if we are concerned about women's employment and equality in this country, if we are concerned about men's care, why do they continue to veto this law? Just answer me to this question why you continue to veto this bill, which also has a broad consensus in the House, because when it was adopted here in October it was because it seemed important to us to many parliamentary groups and we are going to continue to work on it, so I also turn the question into a request and I say to you, Minister: when this bill comes back, are we going to veto it again, or are we going to take this equality seriously? [[A honourable Member: Bravo!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández Castañón. Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, yes, employment has come to stay: 2700 jobs are created in Spain every day, we have started the year with 500 000 new jobs from January to May, and that merit, Your Honor, is not denied to Spanish society, which is the main player in the recovery. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, we were doing very well in the tone. Don't get into those pools when you've started saying who does and who doesn't do the Treasury. I could ask you if you all meet in your group with Finance and Social Security. [[Rumors]] Don't talk to me about corruption, because I ask you: have the two councillors of Madrid already resigned who have not complied with the code of ethics of Podemos? [[Protests.-Applause.]] Let's go to our thing, Your Honor, which is much better for us; besides, I do not like to enter those battles, but do not provoke me, because we were both very well. Don't provoke me. With regard to the reconciliation of working and family life, this group does not have to give lessons, nor does this Government, simply put on the table proposals, fulfil them and come into force when they are in the Government. This labour reform for employment, which was the 2012 reform, recognized for the first time in our country the right to telework, which facilitates the reconciliation of work and family life. We have implemented and expanded the right to reduction of childcare hours from eight to twelve years; we have improved the protection of part-time contracts in Spain by matching them to the full-time contract, and we have done so with the consensus of this whole House; and we have doubled at the beginning of this year the paternity permit in our country. We therefore continue to make progress in conciliation and equal opportunities. You have made a specific proposal to me on paternity leave and, ladies and gentlemen, I take your glove and ask you to take that debate to the Toledo Pact, because maternity and paternity benefit is a benefit from the Toledo Pact, a social security benefit and we can improve it among all of you. In the social dialogue we have an open table called the Comprehensive Agenda for Quality in Employment, where we are going to continue to talk about employment stability, where the social partners have committed themselves to talking about wages and equal wages for men and women, and where we are going to talk about something very important that I have heard in this House on some occasion, about well-being at work, because that is also quality in employment. That is to talk about conciliation and more rational timetables in Spain because our country, if it really wants to be a modern country and that gives equal opportunities, apart from the stability of better wages, we have to have a job compatible with life, with family, with leisure, with sport and with culture. That is also where we are waiting for your parliamentary group, to add proposals that we can offer to Spanish society in a great deal of agreement in this country for rationalization and timetables that are a key element of conciliation. That is talking about present and future, employment and quality in employment. I'll wait for you, Your Honor. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u159	Thank you very much, Minister. - the Parliamentary Group of the Republic of Moldova, to guarantee IDEOLOGIC, RELIGIOUS AND CULTURAL FREEDOMS [[File number 172/000049]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u160	We turn to the urgent inquiry of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left to guarantee ideological, religious and religious freedom. For your defence, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I already know that it is somewhat anomalous that an urgent appeal to the Spanish Government concerning ideological, religious and religious freedom should be taken by the Minister for Development. I know perfectly well why the Minister of Justice cannot be here today and I am grateful that the Minister of Development is here, since the Government, as a collegiate body, validates its voice through any minister. Having said that, I want you to understand, Minister, that this is not just your government's question. In fact, it is an interpellation that could also be addressed to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, that is, it is an interpellation addressed to the Government of office, since both the People's Party and the Socialist Party, because both political parties - which have had the rule of the Spanish State for so many years - have never fully developed article 16 of the Spanish Constitution which, as you know, guarantees ideological, religious and religious freedom and which also states that no religious confession has a state character. On the other hand, the Organic Law on Religious Freedom of 1980 - see how different this society was from the current one - does not guarantee the State's confessionality but confuses this concept with a certain multi-religiousity of the same State. In fact, the law of 1980 only guarantees freedom of religion and worship, not ideological freedom, obviating that religious freedom - this for Republicans is a priority, fundamental, trunkal - is a subsidiary of freedom of conscience. I think you will agree with me that there are as many consciences as there are people, since each individual has his or her own convictions and the fundamental thing is to guarantee freedom of thought. Do you know why I'm telling you this is a question to the government on duty or on duty? Because, in short, the People's Party and the Socialist Party have never disagreed. I think this can be proven and that's what I'm going to try to do in these minutes. In fact, when they have disagreed, the discrepancy has been sterile. This means that the category - not the anecdote - is the non-existence of discrepancy. I can refer to the facts. I recall that the deputy president of the socialist government, Fernández de la Vega, a few days before the end of the first legislature of the Zapatero government, appeared - I was in the Constitutional Commission - and said that relations with the Church had to be based on respect and dialogue. Right. But he was not able to say that the hostility of the bishops at that time - I remind them that Mr. Rouco Varela was absolutely disheartened - was due to the need to defend some privileges. Some may call it privileges - we - and others may call it rights. In any case, the debate is present. In fact, the socialist Government was always willing to slow down the process towards true confessionalism. Moreover, in 2010 - I think you should assume that I speak to you about the socialist government insofar as the thesis I stand for is non-discretion - Minister Caamaño - responding to this same Republican deputy, since the battle of secularism is a battle that we have always led the Republicans - he was telling us textually: I have no doubt that we will be discussing these issues at the next session. He referred to a republican appeal to the socialist government, which gave rise to a pact that forced the socialist government to submit within ninety days a bill replacing the Organic Law of 1980. After a few days, from Beijing, President Zapatero said that he could not make the commitment he had made through serious - discreet but serious - negotiation with the Republican Left. It is true that hard times were lived, it must be recognized, the socialists did not have it easy. You will remember that there was an increase - there is still - of the protagonistism, a certain invasion of public space by religions and there was a harassment of the socialist government. You will remember all the problems surrounding homosexual marriage, the Law on Interruption of Pregnancy, etc. A hope had been opened that was frustrated. In fact, Spanish legislation could advance through that hope that we had in order to meet the demands of the twenty-first century. I remember the rather embarrassed face of the good minister, Mr Caamaño, since when we asked him from this very rostrum what the socialist word was worth - I think it is worth remembering what he said textually because it is the mantra that is perpetuated year after year to look for excuses of bad payer in order not to advance - he answered: It is more important to attend to the citizens in the aspects relating to the economic crisis, as to solve issues as pressing as unemployment, and these measures are not as priority compared to others. Good. As there was certainly a superlative increase in unemployment, as there was certainly a galloping crisis, no progress could be made towards confessionalism. Of course, of course. There is a clear cause-effect relationship. But we insist and insist, and in 2010 we brought here a proposal for a law. To do what? Look at how radical the Republicans, the Sans-culottes of Esquerra! Look, what radicals! A two-objective bill. One, to ensure equality and non-discrimination of all options of religious awareness or not. How radical! How radical! Two, to ensure the reparation, neutrality and secularity of the State. What a radicalism! Note what so obvious things: prohibit religious symbols in public buildings - radical -; that State funerals are secular - radical -; that public offices and institutions refrain from participating in ceremonies or rites of any belief in the performance of their responsibilities, attention!, without prejudice to the personal exercise of their right as citizens - radical -; that the State does not collect donations freely made by citizens and, in any case, that such donations do not correspond to the taxes to be paid - radical -; that no religious confession is exempt from paying taxes - radical -; that the grants should always be finalist in nature and not for the support of a religious - radical - confession; that the foundations linked to the different beliefs are governed by the Law of Foundations, in equality of treatment with the rest of foundations - radical -; that the assets of the different beliefs should be governed by the law of religious - radical - religious system - radical -; that the foundations linked to the different beliefs are governed by the law of the civil and religious system, as well as the moral observance of the civil system - as a rule of law, as a rule of law, as a rule of law, as well as a rule of law, as a rule of civil law, as a rule of law. Look at the extent to which we are installed in maximum radicality. By the way, we are so radical that we say that everything we demand is done also to act in favour of the free exercise of religious freedom, that is, that the State must maintain cooperative relations with the various religious denominations in order to prevent obstacles that might hinder the exercise of the rights of religious freedom and of worship. Look, what anticlerical we are. As time runs out and the goal is to carry with us reasons for the end and effect that next week the correlation of existing forces will enable us to achieve what so far, despite itching stone, we have not managed, after years of battle, in the second round I will speak - if I may - of you. We have talked about the Socialist Party and then we will talk about you, and everything together will be a story that perhaps, given that now it is not all up to you and that, apparently, the Socialists say that they have changed, just like next week we have. In any case, if I may, Minister, I will follow the account in the second round. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. On behalf of the Government, Mr de Fomento has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u163	Good morning, President. Mr Tardà has referred to the fact that it is I who attends to this inquiry. You know - let me say it here in the rostrum - that, after the presentation made by your group on Thursday evening of this inquiry, the Secretary of State for Relations with the Courts contacted you to find out whether he preferred to discuss with the Minister of Justice, who today, for reasons of agenda, cannot accompany us, or whether he wanted to formulate the inquiry this very week. You are in your right to do so, as set out in the Rules of Procedure, and as you also know perfectly well, the Government responds in solidarity in its political management to the Congress of Deputies. Having listened to your speech, I understand why it was not so important for the Minister of Justice to be here, since one hundred per cent of it has focused on the Socialist Group and, therefore, was not - at least so far - addressed to the Government as well as to the Socialist Group itself. I, in my part, will try to respond to the Government's position on this matter. As you have said here, the content of your inquiry speaks of moving towards a more secular society, a society in which citizens exercise their rights under conditions of freedom and equality and many other things that have been marked by radical issues. I see no radicalism in thinking that we are not in a secular society or that here, in Spain, citizens have no conditions of freedom and equality. You know perfectly well that this is so. I would also like to remind you that different international documents have already been ratified in our country that recognize and guarantee the exercise of the fundamental right of thought, conscience and religion. Our constituents have come to translate this right into ideological and religious freedom, whose model of relations between the State and religious confessions has become a reference model in some of the countries in our environment. In this regard, it is good to recall in this inquiry how our legal system guarantees this real and effective exercise of the fundamental right to religious, ideological and religious freedom which is recognized in our Constitution, in particular in articles 9 and 16. In order to fulfil this constitutional mandate, the legislator, in 1980 - you know it perfectly well - passed the Organic Law 7/1980 on Religious Freedom, with one of the largest parliamentary consensuses known so far, since there were only five abstentions and two hundred ninety-four votes in favour. This law came to build the new model of religious freedom management in our country with a law that everyone recognizes is brief, simple, very clear and whose validity, from our point of view, remains undisputed. In article 1.2, the law states that religious beliefs shall not constitute grounds for inequality or discrimination before the law and that no religious grounds may be invoked to prevent anyone from performing any work or activity or performing any public office or function; and in article 1.3, that no confession shall have a State character. Therefore, it answers many of the things you just said in the rostrum. Article 2 establishes the rights of individual and collective ownership arising from the exercise of the right to religious freedom. It is also good to note that, in accordance with article 6.1, religious denominations, once they are registered in the relevant register of religious entities under the Ministry of Justice, will have full autonomy and may establish their own rules of organization, internal regime and staff regime. There are many registered religious entities; the register has more than seventeen thousand registered religious entities, its original 1981 regulation being precisely to adapt it to current needs and to offer greater guarantees to both the Administration and religious groups and also to third parties. It has recently been reformed by a royal decree adopted on July 3, 2015. In accordance with this constitutional mandate of cooperation with the different religious denominations, article 16.3 of the Organic Law on Religious Freedom states - and it is also a matter that remains meridianly clear - that the State, taking into account these existing religious beliefs in Spanish society, shall, in its case, establish agreements or agreements of cooperation with the churches, confessions and religious communities registered in the register which, by reason of their scope and number of believers, have reached a notable root in Spain; in this case, these agreements must be approved by law of the General Courts. As you know, there are several who have this notorious root, not only the Catholic Church, but the Protestant Church, the Jews through the Federation of Jewish Communities of Spain, the Muslims grouped into the Islamic Commission of Spain, the Orthodox Church, the Federation of Buddhist Communities of Spain, the Christian Church of Jehovah's Witnesses or the Church of Jesus Christ of the Saints of the Last Days. Indeed, this concept of notorious rooting has recently been improved in the normative field with the approval of Royal Decree 594/2015 of 3 July, which sets clear objectives for the requirements for their recognition. There are currently four religious denominations that have signed cooperation agreements with the State: the Catholic Church, the Federation of Evangelical Religious Entities, the Federation of Jewish Communities and the Islamic Commission. By the way, the agreements with these last three are now going to turn twenty-five years - the signing was on 10 November 1992 - and, as proof of the importance attached to this signature, there is an intention to commemorate this ephemeride through a series of events and celebrations, one of which is planned to be held here in the Congress of Deputies, given that the agreements have the normative category of laws of the General Courts. The Spanish model has thus become a model of neutrality or non-confessionality in which the legislator has chosen to apply a model of positive secularity in the management of the fundamental right of religious freedom and, ladies and gentlemen, this model has been endorsed by our Constitutional Court. As regards the recent normative improvements that have been made and that have made it possible to deepen precisely the freedom and equality to which you have referred and the religious diversity in Spain, it is good to note that Law 15/2015 of 2 July of the Voluntary Jurisdiction recognizes for civil purposes, for example, the religious marriages of the confessions of well-known root, which until then were not recognized. It seems, therefore, that the secularism to which he refers in his inquiry and to which he referred in his intervention is absolutely guaranteed by our system and is exercised in accordance with the principle of equality. An equality which must be interpreted in the sense set out by the Constitutional Court itself, since in fact the principle of equality is bound by the principle of non-discrimination and the corresponding normative provisions which could be carried out must be justified or reasonable. For this reason, we do not share the second part of the inquiry, when it points out that the Organic Law on Religious Freedom is an obsolete law that omits in its regulation and application other options of awareness different from the religious ones and that leaves aside any regulation the treatment of ideological freedom. Religious freedom and ideological freedom - you know it well - are two different fundamental rights, as the Constitutional Court has already stated. They are different insofar as their object is different, which is called ideological freedom and religious freedom, but obviously they have the same content. The legislator's decision when the Organic Law on Religious Freedom was enacted was to opt for a specific regulation of collective manifestations of the right to religious freedom in its faith-based option, that is, based on faith. I'm closing up. The great value of the Organic Law on Religious Freedom is precisely the construction, taking into account the constitutional principle of cooperation with religious denominations, of a system of relations with the various denominations in which it is possible to establish a peaceful right or unilateral legislation as a model for the management of the religious phenomenon. This does not mean that the other ideas, the non-fidelists - atheists, agnostics, indifferents - encompassed by ideological freedom, remain outside the regulation provided for in the Organic Law on Religious Freedom itself; in no case are they unprotected in our order. It is precisely freedom of thought that encompasses both freedoms - religious and ideological - and, since freedom of expression is the main channel through which the external manifestation of that ideological freedom takes place, any rule that protects that freedom will become a protector of that freedom. Similarly, the collective manifestations of that ideological freedom to which you have referred would also be protected by those additional rights of association and assembly provided for in our constitutional text as fundamental rights and which have been developed legislatively. Therefore, considering that the Organic Law on Religious Freedom sufficiently protects the religious phenomenon on its faith-based side and develops its essential content, there is no justification for a change of law since it is an open, comprehensive law that sufficiently protects this fundamental right to religious freedom. The incorporation of this ideological freedom - not religious, but ideological - does not cease to be an option of a clearly political and ideological nature, and its lack of specific regulation - I repeat - does not in any case imply discrimination, since the exercise of this fundamental right is guaranteed both individually and collectively through other legislation. In conclusion, we do not believe that a legal initiative is necessary for the enactment of a new law on religious freedom. We understand that both rights are sufficiently guaranteed in their exercise by our legal system and are exercised in freedom and equality and in accordance with the principle of non-discrimination. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u164	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor again.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u165	Minister, of course it concerns the debate even when you have spoken about the Social Party. First because the bill was rejected with the Socialist Party's votes but also with its votes. Moreover, with your answer, you have already told me that you do not intend to change. Well, we had already figured that out, which is why I am talking about the Socialist Party, because they are once again a hope. That in the end it'll all be in drunk water? It can be, but we will insist, among other things because the comrades of Podemos are still less, the Socialist Party that we can do even more, with which we can only move forward if this time the Socialist Party does not reject us again, not to the Republicans, but to the principles that we defend. In fact, you are very responsible for the regression that has taken place in recent years. It has been seven years since the last debate, since the last bill; four of the majority of the People's Party. The Socialist Party tried to calm the bishops down and get out of the cave. Note, in 2007, from 0.52 to 0.7, when since 1979 the Catholic Church had committed itself to self-financing. The Socialist Party may have been forced to sweeten the subject of Education for Citizenship. I still remember that following that famous judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which gave reason to an Italian citizen who demanded the withdrawal of religious symbols in the public school, and there was that case in Valladolid, a republican initiative with socialist votes was approved here. But still today in many public schools - don't make me read the name of schools so as not to stigmatize and for a matter of time - there are crucifixes in the classrooms. Believers don't deserve it, look what I tell you, even believers don't deserve it. Let me remind you that we have met you and the Socialist Party when you have always rejected all our proposals on the Criminal Code. Look, in 2017, in Europe, in the 21st century, all the Republican amendments that aimed to guarantee freedom of expression, including the review of blasphemy crimes, still today we have not managed to get them admitted. How can it be that at the heart of the cultured, free, democratic Europe, the Criminal Code still contains five articles on blasphemy. Sounds like a lie. Don't you feel too old? I don't know where they're going. In short, I quote you next Tuesday. Next Tuesday we have a chance. They do not have a majority; even citizens, who support this government, define themselves as a liberal party. The Socialist Party says it's changed. I believe that the history I have presented does not have any kind of aggressiveness and that we cannot deny what I have proposed. We have been demanding for many years the development of all the potentialities - I say to you, that I abide by the Constitution as a legal imperative - of the Spanish Constitution itself. We won't fail. The compañeros of the transforming left, neither. Next Tuesday we have a great opportunity and you have a problem, but you have a problem because you want to, because you are still anchored in the old regime, not in academic terms, you understand me. Carcunda, a lot of carcunda. [[Mr. Delgado Arce: Carcunda?]] Yes, ideological carcune, because there are left and right believers and, obviously, the idea of freedom of conscience must prevail among democratic people. [[Mr. Delgado Arce: Yes, freedom]] This is basic, it's elementary. Now, do you resist? Well, that's how it goes. Well, Tuesday we vote. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. To close the debate, on behalf of the Government, Mr de Fomento has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u167	Thank you, President. Mr Tardà, the truth is that if you already knew what I was going to say, if you have already announced the motion following the inquiry, if you repeat a speech addressed more than to our group to the rest of the groups, I honestly do not know very well what I am doing here. I have tried to explain a position that you already knew and I would like to insist on two or three issues again, but that you state with the roundness that you have made it that our group, which our political party does not believe in freedom of conscience, seems to me to be in the part of radicality to which you referred in your first intervention. This is absolutely far from reality and a political label is used which can sound very well here in the gallery and before the media, but which has absolutely nothing to do with our political formation. You speak of other countries and have mentioned some case, such as Italy. I would like to say that our model of management of religious diversity is being and has over the years been a reference model in many countries of our environment, such as Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Croatia, Bulgaria, Slovakia or the Czech Republic, countries where there are precisely no monarchies, as you mentioned. Just a year and a half ago, the Austrian Minister of Justice visited us precisely to know our model for the elaboration of a law of religious freedom. Countries in Latin America such as Chile or Colombia already have a law of religious freedom that is inspired by our model. Argentina is working on a very similar one. In other words, the Organic Law on Religious Freedom of 1980 is a model of success in managing religious diversity. You also talk about public schools as if it were not true that no one in these centers can be forced to receive religion class, and that religion is only given if one enrolls in a concerted center if the parents or guardians so desire. You now refer to a circumstance in which you try to convey that there is no such freedom, when that freedom is fully guaranteed and is also guaranteed by the Constitution. Therefore, Your Honor, let me say that you have anchored yourself in some principles of radicality with the statements you made in this second intervention and that the proposal put forward by our group, the position that it maintains, remains precisely a position of freedom, which is the one reflected in our Constitution and which derives from the laws that have been put into effect in the area of religious freedom. We ratify exactly the same, in which both rights, both religious freedom and ideological freedom, already have full guarantees in our legal system and are exercised with absolute freedom and equality and in accordance with the principle of non-discrimination. It is therefore absolutely false that you are trying to move here that this is not the case and that the citizens of Spain today have no freedom or equality and that they have a legal system that does not guarantee their rights. Indeed, you knew what our position was, which remains that of respect for the values that are in our Constitution and in a law that guarantees those rights of ideological freedom and religious freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u168	Thank you very much, Minister. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION ON POLITICAL RESPONSIBILITIES THINKING AS A CONSEQUENCE OF THE JUDGMENT OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL COURT DECLARING INCONSTITUTIONAL AND WITHOUT THEIR TAX AMNISTIA. [[File number 172/000048]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u169	Urgent questioning of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the Minister of Finance and Public Service, on the political responsibilities it intends to assume as a result of the ruling of the Constitutional Court that declares unconstitutional and null its fiscal amnesty. To defend it, Mr López Milla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u170	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Montoro, you shouldn't be here today. This inquiry should have been attended to by the person appointed by the President of the Government to replace him or her after his or her resignation or termination. Look, when a Minister of Finance is told by the Constitutional Court that he has taken measures that involve - I say quotes - 'the abdication of the State from its obligation to fulfil the duty of everyone to contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure' - I close quotes -, when the Constitutional Court tells this to a Minister of Finance he should not continue a second in office. [[Applauds]] When a legitimate Minister of Finance, and the Constitutional Court says this - I open quotes - 'legitimate as a valid option the conduct of those who, in an insolidary way, failed to comply with their duty to tax according to their economic capacity, finally placing them in a more favourable situation than those who fulfilled voluntarily and in time' - I close quotes -, when the Constitutional Court tells this to a Minister of Finance, it should not follow a second in office. When the Constitutional Court tells the Minister of Finance to take decisions - I open quotes - 'that they break the goal of justice to which the tax system must, in any case, strive' - I close quotes again -, it should not continue a second more in office. And finally, when the Constitutional Court tells him a Minister of Finance who has adopted a measure which affects - I am sorry - 'the very essence of the duty to contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure set out in Article 31.1 of the Spanish Constitution because the mode of sharing the tax burden that must be lifted by the generality of taxpayers' - I close quotes - in terms that are prohibited by Article 86.1 of the Spanish Constitution, when the Constitutional Court tells this to a Minister of Finance should not continue a second in office. [[Applauds]] And if that finance minister lacks the political dignity necessary to leave, it is the president of the government who should have demanded his departure, rather than become an accomplice to such political irresponsibility. [[Applauds]] Mr Montoro, few decisions taken during your years as a minister have defended you as much as the fiscal amnesty - I would say that none -, therefore, Mr Montoro, when the Constitutional Court, unanimously, pulverizes the decision that you have most defended during your years as a minister - in recent years - a minimum of political dignity - and also, why not say so, humility - would require you to assume the political responsibility for that decision and leave. How many times, Mr Montoro, have you come to this House to mock my colleagues and my colleagues in the Socialist Parliamentary Group, who rejected your fiscal amnesty, who fought it politically and brought the appeal before the Constitutional Court; how many times, even this very morning! The appeal, Mr Montoro, did not fall from the sky, the appeal was brought by the Socialist Group during those years in which you used your absolute majority in this House to disqualify them - my colleagues in the Socialist Group - but also to disqualify virtually everyone who did not comply with their wishes. And, look, now all that pride, all those jokes, all those jokes have ended up choking you, haven't you, Minister? Damn the grace that all those jokes had. Despite that, it seems that you have not learned the lesson. We come again - we have listened to you this morning, also to the President - with cheating arguments; they tell us that the Constitutional Court has not annulled the regularizations that were made under the amnesty. It is true, it has not annulled them, but you use this argument as if it would lower your political responsibility, when it does not actually reduce it but increases it. You know why? If the regularizations have not been annulled, it is because, despite its management in the Ministry of Justice and in the prosecutor's office, Spain remains a state of law, and in this state of law, which is Spain, the principle of legal certainty enshrined in the Spanish Constitution prevails, and it is not possible - it is not possible - to harm those who accepted a rule by believing that that rule was valid. But this does not reduce your political responsibility, Mr Montoro, this increases it because, by virtue of this principle of legal certainty as set out in the Constitution, it is not possible to dismantle the consequences of the tax amnesty that you launched. If the regularisations could be annulled, you could come here today to tell us that, with the fiscal amnesty annulled, its consequences annulled; but since the regularisations could not be annulled, the consequences of the fiscal amnesty are irreversible, Mr Montoro. [[Applauds]] They are irreversible and therefore your political responsibility, Mr Montoro, is no less; your political responsibility is greater because you have taken an unconstitutional measure and the consequences of that measure are irreversible. Furthermore, in the Socialist Group, where we know you well - and particularly you - we are afraid that in fact all this result was already part of your plans, which you already had. You already expected that it was likely that the tax amnesty would be declared unconstitutional, but you probably also expected that those who welcomed it - like some prominent militants of your party who are being prosecuted for corruption cases - would never lose the benefits derived from the tax amnesty. You probably expected that, even if amnesty were declared unconstitutional - as it has been - its consequences would remain forever. So, Minister, while you were leaving thousands of unemployed people without a benefit; while you were demanding millions of sick people to pay more for your medicines; while you were cutting the scholarships and leaving the most humble families without opportunities for their children; while you were taking away from many dependent people the few supports they had; while you were raising VAT and many rates that are the same for everyone, that we all paid regardless of our income; while you were trying to freeze taxes on returning migrant pensioners, while you were doing all this and some other things, you were consciously opening a backless door so that thousands of defrauders would save billions of euros, knowing that even though your decision was declared unconstitutional the benefits of amnesty would remain forever. Minister, we have often told you, the President, the whole government - and the time and the ruling of the Constitutional Court have done nothing but ratify it - that you have used the excuse of the crisis to cut rights, to reduce benefits, to shrink public services and also to benefit those who have suffered most from this crisis through an unconstitutional tax amnesty. [[Applauds.-Mr.Odon Elorza: Very well!]] The excuse of the crisis, Mr Montoro, has served you to put into practice your most ravine ideology, the most ravine, which leads you to distinguish between the common of mortals, Mr Montoro, and children of good breed. Do you remember, Mr. Montoro, the sons of good blood? Do you remember what Mariano Rajoy wrote in a Galician newspaper in the 1980s? Children of good breed, those who came predeterminate to success. Mr. Rajoy wrote it, not me, and the article is there. Those children of good breed are the ones who have been the main beneficiaries of their policies and, therefore, also of this unconstitutional tax amnesty. In addition, Mr Montoro, if it were not enough for all these reasons, we consider that there is one more for you to leave the Government and that your retention in that Government would probably be great news for the anti-systems and for those who propose unconstitutional consultations. And I'll explain why. If you do not assume any responsibility for putting in place an unconstitutional tax amnesty while increasing the suffering - you increased it - of millions of Spaniards by raising their taxes, collecting them rights and taking away benefits, if you do not assume any political responsibility, you will not only harm the Government of Spain, but probably also your party. You will harm credibility and confidence in our institutions. And if credibility and trust in institutions in our country deteriorates, you are giving arguments to all those who defend that when a table limps, instead of fixing it you have to destroy it. That's what you're saying. If you have taken an unconstitutional decision on this matter and do not assume any political responsibility when the Constitutional Court has told you that with the tax amnesty the Government has legitimized the conduct of the fraudsters, the Government has broken the goal of social justice, the Government has caused the State to abdicate its obligation to fulfil the duty of all to contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure. If you do not assume any political responsibility for this, you are limiting the political capacity of the Government to react to those who want to jump above our Constitution. Therefore, Minister, there are many reasons for your departure from the government. That is why, Mr Montoro, I want to trust that in the end, when you have time to reflect a little more on all this, stop acting like that hooligan who was asking a Member of Parliament to drop Spain because the People's Party is already coming to lift it and you are able to act with the minimum political dignity required by the position you still hold. I have to say, Mr Montoro, that the best thing you can do today to preserve the dignity of your position is to abandon it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. López Milla. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u172	Thank you, Madam President. Mr López, the question, as a large part of the monitoring session, was meant to promote my departure from the Government. This morning I have already had the opportunity to summarise it and look at the trajectory not only in the government but also in the opposition banks of this House and after having listened so repeatedly and on so many occasions to the Socialist Group and its different spokespersons who had to leave me from politics, the truth is that I do not understand how I can be the object of such a desire. Reminds me of the phrase in the story that we all heard when we were kids that the wolf came from. What comes the wolf was the redundant metaphor for expressing fear, and when the Socialist Party exhausts an argument that focuses on one person all its axes of criticism and arises another argument that is the ruling of the Constitutional, then the wolf comes for everything, as he himself has remembered; the wolf comes for everything, for any reason. For me too it has been a political exegesis to appear in the Socialist Party video 'We are the left' with which they have made the congress. We have had the honor that the only people in the People's Party and People's Party government to appear are Mr Rajoy and Mr Montoro. For something it will be. [[Applauds]] I'm willing to get rid of your obsessions. I don't know what I can do to free them, of course disappear, this is a formula. Although I'm not sure, under two circumstances, Mr. Lopez. It is true that I came to this House in 1993 and assumed government responsibilities as Secretary of State for Economic Affairs in 1996, when a Socialist Party in the Government - which now sees well the Podemos going against caste, but now sees well - which had placed Spain, with 25% unemployment and 7% public deficit, completely out of the Maastricht criteria, out of the race, which had condemned us to be in third division in Europe, which meant that all of southern Europe was in third division. That was the case from 1993 to 1996, when I came into this House to oppose it. And then I had the honour of being part of a government supported by other minorities in this House that reached political agreements that not only made Spain fail, but also entered Europe's first speed and gave rise to the most creative economic growth of employment in Spain's history. Now we are going to the year 2012, the year in which I returned once again to the Government of Spain, in this case with an absolute majority, but also - I will tell you, Mr López - leading a candidacy for the province of Seville that in the general elections of 2011 was the most voted that the People's Party had ever had in the province of Seville. I want to tell you with this that you have a political trajectory that is what you are now trying to complete - that is what I mean - by showing that no one has voted for you, that what exists is a technocrat brought from heaven to do things taking advantage of the crisis, as he has come to say: you take advantage of the crisis. No, you Socialists are causing the crisis and others have to come to the Spanish Government to get out of that crisis. [[Applauds]] That is what happens systematically in the history of this country. Or isn't that what happens? They read the figures for Spain's bankruptcies, the unemployment rate, the public deficit, when Spain is relegated from its European concert and its international concert every time the Socialist Party rules. And now Mr López still goes up to say: Mr Montoro, you come to the Government of Spain to apply an ideology that takes advantage of the crisis to bring evil to people. Bad for people? Who causes the millions of unemployed? Who causes government deficits to make public services impossible to pay for? Who causes the 35 billion commercial debt? Do you know what the commercial debt of suppliers of public administrations means? 35 billion recognized and unpaid to fund our hospitals, our schools, our public universities. Isn't that what happened at the end of 2011? Did it not happen in 2011, when there was a socialist government in Spain, that the public deficit that we were told would be 6% of our gross domestic product closed by 9.3%? Do you know what the difference is? Another EUR 30 billion, plus 35 000 commercial debt. How do we pay that? Then they say that we came to the government and changed our budgetary political agenda. Not at all. We have come to the government - Mr López, I will tell you quite clearly and routinely - deceived by a management, that of the socialist government, which had not told the Spanish the truth about what was happening with public services. That was the situation of 2012, to which we are going back. It was March 30, 2012 when we made this decision. Indeed, that decision, which the Socialist Group appealed to the Constitutional Court, is in a decree-law containing very important tax measures, tax measures affecting the big companies in this country, tax measures that modified the split payments, which modified the postponements of the Financial Trade Fund, which limited the financial costs of the big companies in this country and changed their freedom of amortization. Do you know what happened from that decree-law? More than EUR 5 billion from corporate tax were entered in the public coffers. Why didn't you do that? Why didn't they? Aren't they so socialist? Aren't they so left-handed? Turn left! I will remind you that Mr Sánchez voted in 2010 that pensions would be frozen and that civil servants' salaries would fall by an average of 5%. [[Applauds]] And I will also remind you that the current spokesman of the Socialist Group - to which, of course, I greet and wish you the best in this new function - was part of the administrations of the socialist government that agreed on the laws of tax amnesty. [[Mrs Robles Fernández makes negative gestures]] I'm going to remind you of this little detail because that was so by date, sort of. [[Applauds]] What was then done was a tax amnesty, of which the Tax Agency is not able to identify its components. [[Rumors]] I shall now finish in this first intervention. This afternoon we will continue, Mr López, because I have asked to appear to have more time and to expand these arguments. Anyway, I'm done with this consideration. The ETD allowed €40 billion to emerge. What state does it abdicate? The state that doesn't know the EUR 40 billion? Isn't that the state that abdicates? Who was in the government who didn't know about the €40 billion? Was it a server or were they the predecessors, then economic vice presidents of the government? Didn't they find out there were 40 billion outside of Spain? [[Rumors]] [[Mr. Odon Elorza: Rato!]] [[Mr Hurtado Zurera speaks words that are not perceived]] They didn't find out, of course. You know, heart that doesn't feel because it doesn't see or eyes that don't see, heart that doesn't feel... You know that, you know that, right? [[Laughter and applause]] Better not to find out. Why are we gonna find out if that's there? Better, of course. He said earlier that among these people, the 39,000 outpourings, are the leaders of the People's Party. That's not true. There is a leader of the People's Party who is precisely prosecuted from the investigation by the outflow through model 720, not this one, which with you did not happen and with us in the government and in the tax administration happens. One, there is no more, because I already explained in this rostrum that those involved in the Gürtel case are not there, in that DTE. I explained it years ago. You said I defended the DTE a lot. No, you've been asking me, you've been asking me for five years, you have no other subject. And now we're going to do an intellectual reflection, Mr. Lopez. I'm telling you, we don't like to take these measures. How will we like to take these measures in a country with such a crisis? The temporary charge of the IRPF of 7 points to the highest incomes and of 0.25 to the low incomes we improve it, we lower the IRPF and therefore we remove it. And when we removed the surcharge - by the way, installed also through the decree-law and that no group appealed, some political group could have resorted to it but no, none of them appealed, look that we did tax measures by decree-law and none is appealed - as I said, when we removed the 7 % IRPF surcharge they tell us that it favors the higher incomes. But if we, the government and this parliamentary group have put the burden on us, not you, it is not going to be that any of the high incomes tell you something, of course; or it is not going to be that any of the big companies in this country tell you something if they change the corporate tax. This has been socialism in Spain and that is what here, Podemos, who used to talk about caste, has now moved to the conspiracy, this triple A, which I had not learned in the budget debate about what this triple A consisted of. I'll find out. There's a conspiracy. Here there is no other conspiracy than to pursue tax fraud, as is being demonstrated; to pursue tax fraud with an efficiency, a frenzy and a neutrality as never before has there been in Spain, as we are seeing, on a case-by-case basis. Therefore, from there one has to assume responsibilities. Without a doubt, the greatest responsibility one has to always take in life is not to cause problems, not to disturb the political stability of your country. That is the first of our responsibilities. The governments appoint them as the president of the government and it is therefore up to the president of the government to decide when one or more of the players enters or leaves the game field. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u173	Thank you, Minister. Mr López Milla, you have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u174	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, we have often asked for your resignation, it is true, but I have listened to you very carefully this morning and in the last ten minutes and there is something I have not heard and I would like to have done so: an apology. But no apologies to this House or to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which submitted the appeal to the Constitutional and which you mocked by saying that this was not going anywhere, apologies to the millions of Spaniards and Spaniards who are currently making their statement from the IRPF, who are punctually fulfilling the last cent of euro and who are still waiting for you to come out and tell them: I apologize Nothing would really happen, I think it would even be healthy. [[Applauds]] Look, I was listening to you earlier, and one might think that the beneficiaries of the tax amnesty, in addition to having substantially reduced the tax cost of bursting hidden assets, should be given a prize because, thanks to them, they had 40 billion euros undeclared, when it was necessary to reduce the public deficit they were able to turn to those hidden assets to collect 12 billion euros. Besides, let's give them a prize, let's give them a prize because there was all that money waiting there to lower the public deficit. [[Applauds]] Don't tell me if the previous government knew or didn't know. Among the beneficiaries of the tax amnesty is Mr Bárcenas and you didn't know anything, you didn't know anything at all. They were doing reforms on Genoa Street and they didn't know anything; every month there was a bonus coming from where and you didn't know anything. What do you mean the government didn't know about anything? Didn't you know what Mr. Rat was doing? Didn't you find out anything? [[Rumors]] Okay, so you didn't know anything. The reality is that this process you call the regularization of assets and of which everyone speaks as a fiscal amnesty - even the deputy president of the Government and the Constitutional Court themselves in their information note refer to it - has allowed just over 31 000 taxpayers to save billions of euros because they have not even paid the 10% initially set up, which would have raised 4 billions -. You lowered the effective rate so as not to make ridiculous, because, if not, no one would have been welcomed to the tax amnesty and ended up applying an effective rate of just 3%. Don't tell me you came to Spain, that you were deceived... but if you've told it in this House in 2012, if I remember correctly! Where you found the deviations from the public deficit was in the autonomous communities. Who ruled the majority of autonomous communities in Spain then, in 2011? Who ruled in most of these autonomous communities? Who ruled in the Valencian Community, Mr. Montoro? How many European governments have been sanctioned for manipulating deficit figures? The Greek Government and the Valencian Government. Who ruled in the Valencian Community? Or was it Zapatero's fault what happened in the Valencian Community? [[Applauds]] Because if what happened in the Valencian Community was Zapatero's fault, why did you charge the Valencian government a fine and reject his arguments by trying to at least share the responsibility? You have fined the Valencian Government arguing that it was the Valencian Government's fault for manipulating the deficit that occurred in the 2011 financial year and there you were ruling, as in so many other autonomous communities where a deviation from the deficit occurred. I return to the tax amnesty, which is actually the question of questioning. I don't know why he's surprised we asked him to take responsibility again. But there's no more finance minister here than you. You are the Minister of Finance in office, the Minister of Finance who approved the tax amnesty, the Minister of Finance to whom the Constitutional Court tells you that with that decision the State has abdicated its obligation to fulfil the duty of everyone to contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure. He says you legitimized the defrauders' behavior. He says that you have caused the failure of the goal of justice to which the tax system must strive. That's not what I'm saying, says the Constitutional Court. It is not an opinion of this Member. You are the minister who approved that decision, you are the minister in office. There's no more finance minister than you. That's all his work. It is your work because you approved the only unconstitutional fiscal amnesty of democracy. [[Applauds.-Protests]] The only fiscal amnesty for democracy, yes the only one. A tax amnesty that opened the door to the children of good breed - those to which I referred - but not only them, also Mr. Rat, Mr. Granados, Mr. Bárcenas, Mr. López Viejo, Mr. Marjalisa, Mr. Torres and some others could launder money from those alleged misdemeanours for which they are being prosecuted without paying anything. Look, Mr Montoro, in the end you have ended up being the accomplice necessary for your business to come out round you, so that you could come out without just taxing all the money that provided you with the activities that brought you before the courts. That's why, Mr. Montoro, I'm asking you to reconsider. Let it stop being that hooligan who said that of: let Spain sink that we will already raise it, and don't become the minister who says: let the credibility of our institutional system sink so that I can rise. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. López Milla. To close the debate on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Finance and Public Service has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u176	Thank you, President. Mr. Lopez, this about me saying Spain sinks, where did you hear it? [[Mr López Milla makes gestures pointing to the seats in the Chamber]] No, no, not here. [[Mr López Milla again makes gestures pointing to the seats in the Chamber]] I'm sure he doesn't have a recording or a transcript. This is another one of your lies. Socialists speak and lie, lie, lie and make it true. [[Protests.-Applause.]] No, no, what I said in 2010, when I was opposing here... Who was right in 2010? There was no crisis in 2008, remember? [[Rumors]] No, only 3 million jobs were destroyed, 300 000 companies closed, but there was no crisis. Man, there's nothing wrong with this country! Why did I come back after 2008 if I had already been Minister of Finance and Secretary of State for Economic Affairs? Because the crisis was coming and I wanted to live it from here, from politics. Because I understood that my commitment to my country was here, here, with my parliamentary group and because Mr Rajoy asked me to be at that moment, a serious moment for my country. I will tell you one thing, if in 2010 other groups had not supported President Zapatero that legislature would have ended and we would have saved ourselves two years of economic suffering. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Two years of suffering and sustained economic errors. If Mr Sánchez was the first one to sit here and vote in favour of all those measures, will we now forget, now that he's gone left? Now that you're there to see if Mr. Mayor gets hit by something? Let's see if you find out that you were voting for what you were voting for here in 2010. [[Protests]] We didn't vote for that because we didn't believe in that. We didn't think so. And we had to do the things that came next in the face of the crisis. Indeed, Spain had a crisis. I'm telling you, this whole control session thing that we're gonna do to get me out of here or not... You will understand that I try to do the right thing, after all the years I have been in politics, in the ministry. I meet in that ministry with myself only because of my sense of responsibility, I cannot justify it in any other way. I'll be right or I won't be right, like everything else in life, but at least I'll use my experience to do so. Mr López, I will remind you that in the period of the crisis that runs from 2008 to 2011, with the government of President Zapatero, we have reached agreements. We reached agreements and reformed the Constitution, article 135 of the Constitution. Wasn't I there? Was I not one of the rapporteurs of the People's Parliamentary Group who reached agreement when Spain really was first? Who proposed that reform of the Constitution? [[A Member: I don't know, I don't know]] The Government of President Zapatero: August 2011. And we weren't there? Were we all against it? [[A Member: I don't know, I don't know]] No, we got her out of the way. As you well know who is not with us now, Mr Alonso, then spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group - a great spokesman, too - of course we reached agreements!, also in terms of the Savings Box Act. We made deals. We did not reach other agreements because we were convinced that they were useless to deal with the crisis; we did not reach other agreements because that Government did not have the decision it had to make in tax matters and we did not support it. But don't say we don't support anything. However, during the parliamentary term beginning in 2011 and ending in December 2015, you did not support anything; nothing. Now, when we had to understand each other, didn't we understand each other? Yeah, well, don't say we're in front of a government that doesn't have that capacity for dialogue. Are you not the ones who voted in favour of the spending ceiling, the deficit targets of the autonomous communities? Well, from the expense ceiling, the known... [[Rumors]] Yes, the expenditure ceiling includes the state spending limits, which are not put to the vote, and deficit targets. You voted with us on the deficit targets in force in this year, and you voted on the real decree on corporate taxation, its modification, and also on tax matters voted in favour of changing the conditions of deferrals vis-à-vis the Tax Agency. They did, didn't they? Or are you ashamed already? Now, as Mr Sánchez has arrived again to Secretary General, they are ashamed. It just looks like that. They are ashamed of what they have done: I have not been, I have not been. Yes, it was you, Mr López; and it was Mr Saura, yes; and it was your new spokesman - I bet you also voted - the spending ceiling and the decree, another thing is that you did not abstain at the time from another presence. But they voted in favour and, therefore, in this legislature we are reaching agreements with the political groups and that is why we have a new budget for 2017 that is about to be approved in the Senate, and that is why we already have the next job, the job of bringing to this House the following spending ceiling: the first step of the General Budgets of the State. In that area we will continue to reach out so that we can agree because there are things that are really fundamental to consolidating economic recovery and job creation. And among these approaches are also the foundations of a budgetary policy, which at least we can agree on the basis, on the basis, of the deficit objectives of that budgetary policy, although I know that we will then have discrepancies in the other contents. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds.-A Member of the European Parliament: Resignation!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u177	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u178	We then proceeded to discuss the motions resulting from urgent appeals that could not be discussed at the Tuesday session. Motion for an urgent debate by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà, on the assessment of the so-called 'Operation Dialogue' with the Catalan institutions and civil society in order to achieve a better understanding. Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor on behalf of the group which is the author of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion and the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u179	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Journal of Sessions of this House, these walls of the Chamber, is full of history of debates on the Catalan issue, which for some of you, in your subconscious, is the Catalan problem and for the most belligerent, the Catalan challenge. Times are changing in Catalonia and Spain as a whole and some do not want to see it. Today the Catalan question, most of it, involves the holding of a referendum on self-determination so that citizens can freely choose their future. This is the consensus that brings together 80% of Catalan society. Forty years have been enough time to check the possibilities and limits of building a truly plurinational State in the mentality of many of Spain's political, economic and social leaders; a truly plurinational reality like that which exists in other parts of Europe, where it is perfectly possible to combine plurality and that all parties feel that the State is their own, useful and representative State. Some spokesmen from some groups - only from some groups - will respond to this motion and to the replacement amendment - because it has been a month since that inquiry and the substance of this motion - angry or threatening, mystical or Jacobin, but everything for self-consumption and to animate the ranks themselves. [[The lady]] But, unfortunately, to this day, no proposal for a pact, a compromise, of agreement, of an exit from consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, and I am addressing the People's Party benches in particular, was this Operation Dialogue? Two days ago we listened in Barcelona to the vice president of the government who said: See you on October 2, with a challenging style, typical of the far west. See you October 2nd, was this Operation Dialogue? But not everything is motionless in this end-of-cycle Spain. We can support the ballot boxes as the solution, and I agree that we are all going to take seriously the way we proceed and call citizens to the ballot boxes. And today, the new Spanish Socialist Workers Party, which since this Sunday, since its last federal congress, proclaims plurinational Spain, this PSOE, begins through this motion in a debate on the territorial question, on the Catalan question. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, today the absolute majority of this House regards Spain as plurinational. Why not quickly articulate this alternative that adds the absolute majority to give solutions where others put problems and ventajisms? When nations are recognized, they are recognized for all purposes. This is in the drawer, dear colleagues of the Socialist Party: cultural nation and political nation, with all their rights, also that of self-determination in order to decide whether or not to integrate voluntarily. It is not far from the times when the Socialist Party of Catalonia set the example of the Canadian way. Well, the first referendum in Quebec was an initiative, only by the Government of Quebec, which was respected by the federal government. Can this degree of civilization be given in Spanish politics? That is why we ask at the point one of this reformulated motion the respect for the announcement made by the President of the Generalitat to convene a referendum for the 1st of October, after countless attempts to seek agreement between the parties since 2012. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is also a minority in this House: that of unitary Spain or that of politically decimated autonomy, that of the People's Party and its faithful squire. It is worth remembering today that we have come this far because the People's Party has turned the Catalan issue into an electoral revenue issue. In the debate on the treatment of the 2006 statute - in the non-acceptance through the 2006 statute - the opposition leader Mariano Rajoy stated: To reconcile the Statute of Catalonia with the Constitution would be like making the permanent to a porcupine thorn. Funny, isn't it? For today the porcupine pricks angry, fed up with so much frivolity and so much party advantageism and fed up with those four million signatures against the statue that we would like to know where they are kept in this Congress. This is one of the mysteries of Congress. Ladies and gentlemen, we tabled this motion, yes; after the announcement of the referendum, yes, because an agreement can still be reached, as it was reached in Canada after the announcement of the referendum and as it was arrived in Britain after the announcement by the Scottish authorities of a referendum with three responses that were eventually agreed to be two a posteriori. This is possible. We are ready to resist the campaigns of fear. In conclusion, we must also tell you that we are outraged by the partisan use of institutions in matters as important as security. Gentlemen of the People's Party, in October last year a motion of the People's Party in the Parliament of Catalonia called for the urgent convening of the Junta de Seguretat de Catalunya and the urgent convening of a new promotion of 500 Mossos d'Esquadra. Now, Minister Montoro only allows the summoning of fifty of those 500 seats requested by the People's Party in the Parliament of Catalonia very recently. With the safety of citizens in an alert situation 4 out of 5 is not played. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that democracy will settle in society and society will express itself. Democracy is like the water that wants to reach the sea. It always ends up reaching the sea and, when it does not arrive, it becomes stagnant water. If we do not want something for the democratic quality of the future in Spain and Catalonia, they are stagnant waters. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u180	Thank you very much. In turn of fixing positions, I have the floor, by the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u181	Thank you very much, President. We are debating a motion which we will support and which is a follow-up to another motion which this House saw a few months ago, the subject of which was also the so-called Catalan question. I would say that in fact it was then and we are now dealing with the territorial question and, more specifically, the integration not historically resolved of those territories with their own unique cultural identity and which are historical political applicants; that is, they are not only cultural nations, but also politically demanding throughout the history of their own self-government. At this time of day the issue manifests its tension and erupts around the referendum as a key issue. [[The lady]] It is a referendum to test the opinion of the citizens of Catalonia in relation to their political future as a nation and around them the battle of arguments and concepts is fought: legality, legitimacy, democracy, political subject, demos, minorities, solidarity, concentrated sovereignty, shared sovereignty, etc. However, I would now like to look at the causes of why we feel that we are as we are, and for this I will not go back to the most distant history, but, succinctly, to the most recent, to which it draws from the 1978 Constitution. So, and very briefly, I believe that there is essentially no crisis of the autonomous state or, rather, the crisis of the autonomous state has nothing to do with this, which constitutes a problem of nations without state. As I said, what is there is a crisis of integration basically of Catalonia and of Euskadi in the state with its vavenes, with its peaks and its valleys, because its inveterate vocations of self-government have been defrauded. The so-called territorial question was substantially illuminated to give acceptance and recognition to the identity, the historical-political singularity and the self-governing defendant of those territories. This is precisely what is in crisis - as I said, with its moments of peaks, plateaus and valleys -; crisis produced over these years because it has not recognized its nature as historical nations and the consequences for its unique institutions and self-government in the form of preferably bilateral relations and that the system of guarantees has been visualized, unbalanced and is not neutral. This situation has led these nations with a historic will for self-government - dissatisfied with this by the homogenizing and centralizing action of the State - to consider their process of self-government in the future of the autonomous State as an unfinished and differentiated process and which must finally lead to a new constitutional pact in which the legitimate political question of the right to decide is constitutionally concerned. The right to decide based on the idea that every democratic process also demands the principle of the inclusion of all sensitivities on an equal footing and that it is only the majority will that empowers to negotiate in good faith. Also based on the recognition of plural identities that must coexist in mutual respect and in which conflict resolution is addressed through dialogue, negotiation and agreement. Because, ladies and gentlemen, as long as we do not institutionalize this debate on a new political status for these historical political realities demanding self-government, we will find ourselves recurrently faced with situations such as the present, where sometimes things happen because we do not realize what is happening. In this way, you will find us debating the unconstitutionality or not of a referendum without having discussed in an honest manner the meaning of the democratic principle in a Western society advanced in the twenty-first century and the behavior it claims towards the majority wishes expressed peacefully and democratically by sub-state minorities on a territorial basis. He will also find us without having discussed the principles of constitutionality and legality, which force us to respect the law but understand it as a bridge and not as a wall. We will also have to reflect on the constitutional principle that recognizes plurinationality or multiplicity, which must dialogue on an equal footing with that of unity. All these principles have already been put into harmonious dialogue in States that are examples of modernity, maturity, stability, progress and solidarity. I'm referring to Canada, and it's never too late to look closely at what works to gain some knowledge. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u182	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will insist until the last minute of the last day, which is why it is clear that this initiative presented by Mr Xuclà is important. We are convinced that a negotiation would be favorable for both sides; in fact, we do nothing extraordinary, it goes with our pactist DNA. However, you also know very well that if you do not want to negotiate, we have a democratic mandate and, for the first time in the contemporary history of Catalonia, we have a parliamentary majority to be able to do so, that is, to open the polling stations on 1 October and give the voice to the citizens. You can go on repeating that it will not be done, we say that we will, not because it is our will, but because it is the majority will of the people of Catalonia expressed in the Barcelona Parliament; moreover, you know that there are many more Catalans and Catalans who want to vote than the number of independenceists. You can go over and over again whenever you want it not to be done; well, you can only avoid it by force, by violence, and by Spanish society, Spanish citizens - we have repeated it a thousand times - will not allow you to use violence against the majority will of the people of Catalonia, which is not independence but to vote on independence, which is not the same. You chose a few months ago, perhaps a few years ago, to take the path of authoritarian response: disqualifications - there have been and there will be more - fines, millionaire fines - there are and there will be - embargoes of property - there will be - and possibly jail. I myself have told you months ago that it is possible - we speak clearly, without complexes - that in the Spanish state there will again be political prisoners. It is possible, but do you believe that the majority will disappear of the people of Catalonia to vote? No, what happens is that the demand for amnesty will be added to the demand for a referendum, and they will find that Catalan society will go out to the civic street and peacefully demanding a referendum and amnesty. So what? Referendum and amnesty. That the Socialist Party, the People's Party and Citizens develop this dynamic will take them... Certainly, you can guarantee us suffering, that of Catalan citizens, whether or not they are independent, but you will also guarantee their defeat. The Socialist Party will indeed be an accomplice. Well, they'll be dealing with this already. Whatever happens, the democratic mandate will be carried out. The polling stations will open. Catalan citizens will vote, and they may vote yes or they may vote no. The vice president says we'll see you on day two. Yes, on Day 2 we will see each other and, depending on the electoral results of the referendum, we will negotiate. We will negotiate both if we win the yes and if we win the no, but the situation will be very different, not only on the basis of the result, but also on the basis of the fact that Catalan citizenship has been expressed democratically and has exercised the right to decide. Mr. Peces-Barba once told us that he hoped that Barcelona would not have to be bombed again. That's a pity. Mr Guerra calls for the Government of Catalonia to intervene; and Mr Sánchez - thank you, Mr Sánchez! - in six months it has passed from not recognizing that Catalonia is a nation to which the Catalans have now become a cultural nation. Well, in six months we've become a cultural nation. Stop offending. Be more serious. Do you think the Catalans will be or won't be depending on Mr. Sánchez now deciding that he will? Now you have become a cultural nation. This is an act of shameful supremacy. Who are you to say that in six months we have become a cultural nation? Aren't you ashamed of yourself? Doesn't it embarrass you to insult a millennial nation and tell it that we have become a cultural nation in the last six months? Why don't you respect the Catalans just as you respect yourselves as Spaniards? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Villegas Pérez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a motion on dialogue and self-determination, but we know that the members of Convergence do not want to talk about dialogue or referendum; they want to talk about independence. You, at one point, opted for independence and here you bring one of the mechanisms that are in your texts, which can be by referendum, by unilateral declaration of independence... Well, that's where you write it and you don't cheat on anyone. They opted for independence; then we will analyze why Convergence opted for independence. Obviously, we are against independence and, therefore, we are not going to facilitate any of the mechanisms by which you want to reach it. And why did they choose independence? Well, we must refer to 2012 and see the situation of Convergence, of the government of Mr Mas. Convergence is now presented here as the party of dialogue. Well, we Catalans know him well and Convergence in 2012, just like now, was the party of corruption in Catalonia. And not only the party of corruption, which was and still is; Convergence and its government, that of Mr. Mas, was the government and the party of cuts; party of corruption and party of cuts. In addition, it was the party and the government of mismanagement. I believe that the Generalitat's debt should now be over 75 billion; corruption, cuts and mismanagement, now supported also by its members of the Republican Left, but that was the panorama of Convergence; and, in view of that panorama, Convergence tied the blanket to the head, the stellate to the head, and threw itself on a journey nowhere, Mr. Mas's famous journey to Itaca; a journey nowhere, a journey to an impossible independence. With that journey, with that turn of Mr. Mas to cover corruption, to cover cuts and to cover mismanagement, it drags Catalonia to the social fracture, to the division between Catalans. Therefore, Convergence, in addition to being the party of corruption, cuts and mismanagement, is also the party of the fracture, the party that fractures and divides Catalans. [[Applauds]] Moreover, it is the party of paralysis because it wastes efforts, millions of euros in its process, in its propaganda, to pay to that civil society that is mentioned in the resolution - although I would rather speak of subsidized civil society - to spend millions in the media to make propaganda of its process, public media and subsidized in Catalonia, as we all know. We would have gone to all Catalans if those efforts and resources had been devoted to tearing down barracks in schools, limiting waiting lists or making social policies in these times of severe crisis; but no, you paralyzed us with the monotheme and dedicated all resources to trying to feed that monotheme, this flight ahead of Convergence. Therefore, no one is surprised that Citizens are going to vote but on their proposal, because, I insist, you no longer deceive anyone; you do not deceive us Catalans. We are going to vote no, and ours is going to be a standstill, no ambiguities, no occurrences, like the ones others are trying to put on the table. We have already seen where the occurrences of Mr Sánchez's plurinationality lead us, to the next immediate step, which is to recognize those rights. It is clear that Spain is a diverse and plural country, but such diversity and plurality are part of the Spanish Constitution, a Constitution that we must certainly modernize, but not break. Therefore, I insist that we are going to give a no resounding, a no without ambiguities, a no without occurrences, a no to Convergence, which is a great yes to a better Catalonia, a great yes to a regenerated and more modern Spain and a yes to a more united Europe. The Catalans we deserve for the next few years a project that illuminating us, a project - I insist - for a better Catalonia, to have a better future for all Catalans in which most of us can be seen reflected. And, gentlemen of the Conference, you know that you have no room, that you are not going to be at least the main protagonists of that future better than Catalonia and the Catalans deserve us. Thank you all very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u186	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Domènech Sampere has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u187	Good afternoon. We will try not to become mystical, as Mr Xuclà asked, but, after Mr Villegas' intervention, I would humbly tell him to apply the story. That is, if you say that one should not support - and we agree - a party of corruption and a party of cuts, stop supporting the People's Party at the moment, because the situation in Catalonia also improves. [[Applauds]] Balance of the famous Popular Party Dialogue Operation. If the Constitutional Court has taken five years to rule against the amnesty imposed on his friends, in record time thirty-two laws of the Parliament of Catalonia have been suspended by the same Constitutional Court. We have criminal complaints against 260 municipalities, we have disqualifications and we have that Catalonia is the only national reality - as an autonomous community in this case - that does not enjoy the Statute that Catalans and Catalans voted for. That is why the balance of Operation Dialogue is the total and absolute denial of what 80% of Catalans and Catalans are demanding, and which is a referendum, the right to decide. In that sense, the balance is absolutely negative and it is not a future balance, it is a past balance. The PDECAT has presented here today a self-amendment, that is, it has presented an original text and then a self-amendment at the last moment, without dialogue - with a certain tendency sometimes to confuse party, power and country, because this self-amendment could have been dialogueed - which urges four things that at least seem contradictory to us. The first is to respect the road map of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. I have also understood that it is now a question of respecting it as a Canadian model - there I have seen an almost magical attempt at nuances - and then say in point 2 that they are willing to address shared answers from the dialogue right here. That is to say, a commitment to absolute unilaterality and then they say that they are going to dialogue with President Puigdemont right here, in order to put in point 3 the formation of a committee for that dialogue, but not now, but after 1 October. So, shared answers now is after October 1st, which I understand you're not leaving. Because, of course, if it's after October 1st and we have to do this commission, it doesn't seem that the fact of leaving Congress as a symbolic representation of the breakup is going to occur. In point 4 they ask for the call of the Security Board of Catalonia, we agree, but it is also a little contradictory to ask the Security Board of Catalonia to agree on issues of the Mossos d'Esquadra if they have decided that October 1 or October 2 are gone, or not. In the end, everything is enormously confusing. In turn, they say that the legitimacy of their road map emanates from a mandate from the polls. You didn't show up on 27-S with a proposal for a referendum, and we all know that, you showed up with another commitment that you haven't fulfilled, that of the eighteen months for Catalonia to be independent. Everything as contradictory as its own political space is right now, because now they come here to ask for dialogue, they come to ask for both respect for the road map, but last week they abstained to keep Rajoy in power, with which the contradiction is absolute. [[Applauds]] However, as we do not agree with your road map, which we are not, the 27-S did not come up with that road map, we agree that the main problem arises from the existence of the People's Party Government. It would have been fantastic if you guys had agreed to that last week. And to the extent that this problem arises from that lack of dialogue of the People's Party, it also comes from the repressive impulses of the People's Party against the Catalan institutions, but we, unlike you, will not abstain. We, unlike you, will not abstain. [[Applauds]] Indeed, I believe that what Mr Xuclà is saying also takes me a little away from some of the speeches I hear there. We agree that the solution is plurinationality and the right to decide. That's the solution we've been through. I would love to talk about plurinationality because it is a debate that I think we have open, but I have run out of time. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u188	Thank you very much. Mrs Batet Lamaña has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u189	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion is neither a dialogue nor a negotiation nor a democracy. [[Applauds]] It is not a dialogue because they do not propose that we should feel all the political forces in this House already in order to reach a consensus and a new political pact. It does not go through dialogue because the Government of the Generalitat has long renounced representing all Catalans and all Catalans. It is not a dialogue because the political forces defending independence in Catalonia, with a representation of less than 48 % in the Parliament of Catalonia, have also given up reaching agreements with the other political forces represented in the Parliament of Catalonia. And it does not go through dialogue because they intend to pass a law without debate and having changed the rules of the legislative procedure. It does not go to negotiation because they presented 46 points to negotiate with the Government of Spain, which does not really make it easy, but they have given up negotiating 45 of those 46 points. By the way, I do believe it is necessary to negotiate at this time the convening of the Security Board and the squares of the five hundred mossos d'ésquadra. I therefore hope that, in this particularly sensitive area, the two governments, that of the Generalitat and that of Spain, will be able to reach an agreement. It does not go to negotiation because they put forward a motion calling for a date and a question to be agreed, but the following week President Puigdemont announced the date and the question and, therefore, left this motion to be amended. It does not go to democracy either, ladies and gentlemen, because they do not care to violate the law, and there is nothing less democratic than to violate the law. [[Applauds]] It does not go to democracy because they know that they do not have the power to call a unilateral and illegal referendum, as the Venice Commission says, as the Council of State Guarantees says, and as the Constitutional Court says. And it does not go to democracy because there are no guarantees either in the holding or in the procedure for convening that referendum: empowered by only one option, organized by volunteers on the part also, without a clear census, without a law enabling that referendum, without even waiting for the recognition and support of any European State. In short, the convening of a referendum of self-determination that you do not believe in the substance. The only thing you are wishing for - Mr Tardá has said, and that is why it is not a democracy either - is that there is strength and violence, and the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not going to be in that position of exerting neither force nor violence, because that is the only thing that can legitimise them at the moment. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are unilateral in achieving at all costs a political objective, which is independence, not democracy, not dialogue, not negotiation, but independence, which is the ultimate political objective. When one is in unilaterality, that implies renouncing dialogue and contempt for democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, you believe in the ability to choose which laws are applied and which ones are not, which laws are democratic enough and which ones are not, which laws are just and which ones are not, and that is arbitrariness. [[Applauds]] It is intolerable for any public authority to exercise arbitrariness. To break with the submission of public authorities to the law is to go against one of the greatest achievements we have achieved as democratic societies and rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no democracy without respect for the law. That is why the Socialist Parliamentary Group is going to defend legality, because the law is what makes us free, because the law is what gives us guarantees, rights and freedoms, and that is precisely what we want for all the citizens of Catalonia. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, who are you, Mr Tardá, to separate the Catalans into good and bad, into democrats and into non-democrats, in whom you love Catalonia very much and those who do not want Catalonia so much, in whom you are more Catalan and those who are less Catalan? Mr. Tardá, who are you to establish that social fracture and provoke that division between Catalans, I wonder? [[Applauds]] We're tired of being examined constantly, Mr. Tardá. I understand her despair - and I finish - even empathize with her, because I understand her. Being in a dead end is to be desperate, but their despair cannot condemn us all of Catalan society to fall into an abyss. It's the moment of truth. [[Applauds]] The time has come, be brave, be responsible, for Catalonia, for the citizens of Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen, go out on the street and say loudly, confess: the king is naked. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u190	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u191	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Xuclà, why this motion? Why do they ask to negotiate with this House the holding of a referendum on self-determination when they know that it is illegal because it is neither protected by national law nor by international law and when they have also announced the date and question unilaterally? Why does Mr Puigdemont make it a condition to come to this House to defend his position which is not put to the vote? Is that what you call dialogue? That is not dialogue, Mr Xuclà, that is a lack of respect for this House and also an imposition on that secessionist challenge that you have launched against history, against legality and against coexistence. [[Applauds]] The Constitutional Court has told us once and a thousand times: that our Constitution does not recognize any nation other than the Spanish nation and that autonomy is not synonymous with sovereignty. I know that it does not matter to you, and above all some have now had the occurrence of saying that Spain is a nation of nations, a position that I do not know if it is the fruit of political calculation, but that of course - and you have already heard the speeches - it seems as little measured as it is as unresponsible and, in any case, as artificial and fallacious as the arguments that you, Mr Xuclà, have been using to defend your position. It is true that they are no longer listening to the little whip that Spain steals from us, smoothly and plainly, and was shown by the Vice President of the Government last week, because it is not true, and here are the figures for per capita financing, social security and investment to prove it. Now I hear the whip of not imposing, not stopping. Well, Mr Xuclà, apply it to him, because in reality it is you who intend to impose your decision on others and it is you who want to prevent all Spaniards from expressing themselves in order to decide their future. [[Applauds]] It has come to invoke - that is, with little enthusiasm - the democratic principle to reproach the Government for not wanting dialogue on something that is illegal. No, Mr Xuclà; it is not that one cannot dialogue, it is that one cannot agree something illegal because that day we would end democracy and the rule of law, so, lessons of democracy, the just, Mr Xuclà. [[Applauds]] That challenge also goes against coexistence. Because what have they dedicated themselves to and, above all, what have they achieved during these years? Just divide and face people. Instead of ruling and helping the Catalans who were going through the worst during the crisis, they have devoted most of their efforts and economic resources to that strategy of rupturistic propaganda that leads nowhere. You can be independentists or whatever you want, you can feel more or less Spanish, but you never confuse feelings with legality, because freedom of thought is enshrined in the Constitution and allows everyone to feel Spanish in their own way, but it does not allow anyone to break up together or force people to decide whether they want to be Catalan or Spanish, as if they were suddenly incompatible feelings. That's dividing, that's creating confrontation, that's half-way to Catalan society and not respecting people's freedom. By the way, Mr. Xuclà, Catalonia has much more seny to define it as a porcupine. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] Finally, that challenge is also undemocratic. Why? Because law and democracy are inseparable fellow travellers, because there is no freedom or democracy without respect for the law, and it is that democracy is born with freedom, but lives with the law. That the laws can be changed? Of course, but through the rules established in our rule of law, because voting can be the most democratic act that exists, but it becomes a profoundly undemocratic act when it is done outside the law, which is what you claim. Therefore, in a regime of freedoms like ours what is not legal is neither legitimate nor democratic nor can be claimed in the name of the people. Do you know why, Mr. Tardà? Because in a representative democracy the laws are an expression of popular sovereignty, so no one can be above the law, because the laws are of the people; no one, and neither can you. [[Applauds]] Therefore, there can be no negotiation to hold an illegal referendum, because we are never going to negotiate either law enforcement or the unity of Spain or national sovereignty. I repeat, never. Spain will be what all the Spaniards want in the future and not what you decide. That's why - and I finish - they don't insist. There is neither the right to secession, nor the right to unilaterally break our framework of coexistence, nor the right to decide outside the law, nor the right to impose its decision on others, nor the right to isolate Catalonia, to bring it to social and economic bankruptcy, nor the right to confront and divide Catalan society. What exists is the right to live together, what exists is the right to live in democracy and to respect the law and, above all, what exists is the right to continue building together - I repeat, together - a future of employment, prosperity and progress for the Catalans and the rest of the Spanish. And for that, Mr Xuclà, yes, with capitals; for that, infinite dialogue, for that you can always count on the People's Group [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - (FR) Mr Xuclà asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u192	Yes, Mr. Xuclà.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u193	Madam President, very briefly, I have to invoke Rule 71, which refers to judgments of value or inaccuracies, and I will smother you...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u194	One second, Your Honor. Tell me, Your Honor, what exactly are you referring to?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u195	The spokesman of the Citizens' Group in his statement, repeated and has only made reference to the Convergence Party, and a server, who speaks to them, and my colleagues are associated with the European Democratic Party Català. I do not remember Mr Villegas' previous militancy in another political party, and I think he should have spoken with property referring to the Catalan European Democratic Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u196	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) THE HEALTH AND ACHIEVEMENT OF INTEGRATED ACTIVITY ON THE GALLENGES. [[File number 173/000035]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u197	We move on to the motion following urgent questioning of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea to promote sanitation and perform an integral action on Galician rivers. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Gómez-Reino Varela Silencio has the floor, ladies and gentlemen. Go ahead, Mr. Gómez-Reino.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u198	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. It is a pleasure to be here again to defend the ria of my country, Galicia, and it is a pleasure to be here to end this motion in which we will finally see the position of each of the groups with regard to the regeneration of the Galician ria and with regard to two very particular issues - Ence and Reganosa - and therefore with regard to their legality. We would like you to understand the importance of the regeneration of the ria for Galicia,... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u199	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u200	... first, for its immense environmental, economic, employment, food quality or tourist value. It is essential that you understand the importance of fishing and shellfishing in our economy, in Galicia. Compared to other European countries or other autonomous communities, their relevance to my country is much higher, key in terms of economic, employment or the driving role of the whole region economy. This is not a marginal sector, nor is it the need to protect a few jobs that will eventually end in time. On the contrary, we are talking about a means of life that connects secular knowledge with the future, which should be more promising. Our ries are essential for the sustainability of our most valuable environment and for Galicia's sustainability as a future society. This motion is aimed at preserving a treasure that should be inexhaustible and points to its main problems of pollution: firstly, the defective treatment of waste water; secondly, uncontrolled discharges of industrial waste; and thirdly, the lack of sanitation of ria. But this motion focuses above all on positive, with a view to making a bet to take advantage of the enormous potential of these fundamental ecosystems. Let's split it up. In principle, action must be taken on pollution outbreaks. This means that the Government complies with and enforces the legislation, and it also means that it allocates sufficient resources to enable it to implement these commitments. In particular, firstly, compliance with the European directives and judgments of the European Court of Justice on urban waste requiring both enforcement of the rules and public investment - in the form of cleaners that avoid pollution - and, secondly, industrial pollution and the two extreme cases of the judgments against Ence and Reganosa. Because what can be the reasons and interests that maintain these outbreaks of mass pollution and force non-compliance with court sentences? The dangerous friendships, of course, the dangerous friendships of a People's Party that has favored the settlement of friendly industries. The sixty-year extension to Ence has to do with this. It is no coincidence that environmental officials of your party, such as Mrs Tocino or Mr Carlos del Álamo, are on the board of directors. How can it be that two such polluting companies feel so responsible for the environment of the People's Party? Swivel doors, nepotism; everyone who calls him as he prefers. Ence is also a clear example of a model that brings us to what has happened tragically these days in Portugal. The People's Party's bet on this paper pulp company implies the monoculture of eucalyptus. This afforestation has serious consequences: soil degradation, very little economic exploitation, lack of added value, terrible fires every year - as we see in Galicia and northern Portugal - and a heavy pollution of aquifers and ria. Don't cheat on us and don't cheat on us. Don't be fooled again, these extremely dangerous forest monocultures are not forests. As for Reganosa, a gas plant located inside the Ferrol River, there are four Supreme Court rulings stating that this gas infrastructure is null and void. And how curious, again the same government in office of the People's Party was that which regularized it through an administrative act. Secret pacts between politicians of the PP - but not only - financial and business that determined that if there were losses it would be the public sector that would take over. Sounds like it to you, doesn't it? As in savings boxes, socialize losses and privatize profits. They were politicians, as I said, that they were not just from the People's Party. Therefore, whether or not support for this motion will also demonstrate whether some forces continue to be abducted by their past or will vote in accordance with their principles and existing legislation. Let's go with the regeneration of the ries. In addition to attacking the hotspots, we need concerted action by the administrations and investment to clean up the ria. The only thing we can see is the complete lack of investment commitment in the budgets for 2017 and the lack of implementation year after year. We need a comprehensive approach. We also need to change the approach by introducing an action incorporating the different institutions involved and their different dimensions - ecological, fishing, urban, tourism or employment - by developing an integrated dialogue between the different actors involved. It is necessary to plan in an integrated way the enormous potential of the ria and to take the necessary investment commitment as a strategic bet for Galicia's future. For our group, it is crucial that comprehensive action be taken on ries, including their sanitation, complying with European rules and taking account of their dimension as a means of working in the primary sector and in the tourism sector. Responsible, sustainable management is needed; a change in the productive model, a bet on the green economy and a bet on the people of my country who need it, who want to continue living from the sea. On the amendments that have been put to us Citizens and the Socialist Party, of course, we accept the path of dialogue, as always, with all the actors involved, but what we are not going to accept is that we are required not to comply with court sentences. In short, we urge this House to ensure that the State acts as a guarantor of legality in Galician ries and to take on a genuine State commitment to our ries. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u201	Thank you very much. In order to defend the amendments put forward by the groups, Mr Martínez González, the Group of the European People's Party, intervenes in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Galician rivers are a privileged and unique area; a perfect ecosystem without which Galicia could not be understood. Its maintenance and conservation was a guarantee for the progress of its economy, its people and its municipalities. This progress can only be based on a commitment to development that is economically, socially and environmentally sustainable. There is a need to protect the rational use of natural resources and environmental respect while keeping their economy productive and competitive. Spain and Galicia carry a long series of Community convictions and sanctions for the poor sanitation of their waters, having exceeded in more than fifteen years the deadline set by the European authorities for their solution. The lack of an adequate level of purification and treatment poses significant risks to human health, inland waters and the marine environment. According to the current legislation, the provision of public sanitation and water purification services is the responsibility of the municipalities and the State only carries out sanitation and sanitation actions if previously and by law such works have been declared of general interest. Our membership in the European Union conditions our legal system in the form of Community directives and regulations which are mandatory and enforced. That is why we cannot be more in agreement with paragraphs 1 and 2 of your motion, which require compliance with the European directive and respect for existing judicial decisions and legality, but I remind you that it is the same court in the European Union that imposed on us a penalty of EUR 46 million for the clean-up of our waste water and that also imposed a penalty of EUR 21 million for the monopoly of the stove that you refused to repeal; the sentence is one and the other, and with the failure of the two it harms the citizens to whom you claim to defend. Ladies and gentlemen of the United States We can - in Marea, the judgments and directives must be complied with and complied with all, - I repeat, all - not only those that feed our ethics or our narrative. [[Applauds]] Cities such as Santiago de Compostela, Ribeira and Vigo continue to be affected by this problem, but the problem also continues in many municipalities with fewer populations and which do not have waste treatment stations. I remind you that many of these are those you call municipalities of change, managed and governed by the tides, so you are also part of the problem and the solution. Ladies and gentlemen, waste water in Galicia continues to be mixed with the sea in almost all Galician rivers, repeatedly failing to comply with the Water Framework Directive and the Marine Strategy. Last year, the Galician Federation of Brotherhoods produced a report which states that the Arousa north and Muros-Noia ria, for example, bear about 200 spills, of which some 162 show some kind of polluting evidence. This pollution affects shellfish banks, so much so that many production areas are declared as zone C; a situation that affects the volume of catches and the income of their workers. I remind you that more than 120,000 families live directly from marine resources and about 3% of the wealth of the community comes from the fisheries sector. In some counties, such as Ribeira, fishing accounts for 27.8% of their economic activity. Ladies and gentlemen, you are calling for more and better state funding, more investment in sanitation, so we cannot agree more. We are aware that depurators are lacking; there is no investment; the sanitation network needs renovation; many depurators are not prepared to treat contaminants of agricultural origin, such as insecticides, or urban pollutants, such as detergent and drug residues. Our sense of responsibility led us to approve the 2017 budgets and Galician citizens, fishermen and shellfishmen will get from these budgets various items for sanitation, purification and coastal recovery, which will help them to preserve their livelihoods. I remind you that in the budgets that you did not approve there were items for sanitation and purification worth EUR 500 000; there was an item of EUR 1 686 000 in the Growth Plan - the Plan of measures for growth, competitiveness and efficiency -; there were items for the control of the regression of the coast, protection and recovery of coastal systems for an amount of EUR 3 250 000 and, within this item, there was a million euros for the Ría del Burgo, in La Coruña, and EUR 600 000 for the pedestrian route between Marín and Pontevedra. There were also works of replacement and conservation of the coast worth one and a half million euros. I remind you once again that you voted against all these items. We think it is a good idea to have a comprehensive action plan on the ries that coordinates the actions of the various administrations, which is an appropriate instrument to ensure the conservation of the spaces that make up the territorial land and marine scope of the Galician ries. We will always support transparency, dialogue and negotiation and we fully agree on the need to take technical and scientific criteria into account in decision-making. Galicia, with its more than 1500 kilometers of coastline, being the land of the thousand rivers, being one of the green lungs of this country because of the richness of its ecosystems, cannot stand out because of the low level of protection of its forests, which is the lowest percentage of all Spain - 15,5% -, the poor quality of its waters or because it is the last community of Spain in terms of territory protected by the Nature Network. Ladies and gentlemen, from Citizens we will be with the Galician people, working with seriousness and rigour for their needs, defending the protection and defence of their coastline, their development and tourism promotion, aware of their environmental sensitivity and, of course, working for the well-being and employment of their people. On that path they will always find us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u203	Mr Meijón Couselo has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u204	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. That Galician rivers are a unique natural environment and a privileged environment I do not think anyone can question it, but it is also an unpleasant reality that this ecosystem and its biodiversity are in serious danger. We know that the Galicians and the Galicians know that too - and so we have been recriminated, expelled and fined - the European authorities, and it is time for the current governments - the Galician and central Xunta - to take good note and act decisively for their preservation. We agree - it could not be otherwise - that the administrations involved must make a real commitment to the ria, a commitment that cannot be reduced to words, but must be translated into action plans that, on the basis of rigorous scientific criteria, allow the most suitable actions to be implemented to reverse the current process. That is why, in the second part of our amendment, we call for the commitment of the central Government, in coordination with the Xunta de Galicia, to send within a maximum of three months a report to Congress that will advance the analysis of the situation of Galician ria and that will contemplate a plan of action with phases, with timetable, with economic memory, establishing the degree of implementation of the same in the course of this legislature. We are prepared to agree on these deadlines, but we do not think that the absence of them is appropriate. The European Commission, when analysing the blue economy, points out that it represents 5.4 million jobs for Europe as a whole and a gross added value of almost EUR 500 billion per year, and that it also contributes to international competitiveness, resource efficiency, job creation and the emergence of new sources of growth. No one hides the relevance of the blue economy for Galicia. But for this to happen - the European authorities stress - biodiversity must be safeguarded and the marine environment protected, and that is what we want for our ries. Not dealing with it urgently will imply the absolute certainty that future generations will not be able to contemplate the unique features of this wonderful ecosystem. I will not talk about the wording of the explanatory statement or some mistake, for example, on dates, but, ladies and gentlemen, in your motion you have introduced a point - the second - that will make it difficult for a possible unanimous vote. You speak of judicial compliance and respect for the law in force. Let me set the example of Ence. You are talking about respecting the existing legality of a law that a government in office has established to allow for the granting of sixty years of extension to this company. Is that the current legality we want to maintain? I don't think so. Not long ago, between you and us, we negotiated and brought forward a proposal for a law precisely to repeal that extension, precisely to repeal that existing legality. You are talking about the closure of this factory and you know very well that we are talking about moving, preferably in the region. The Parliament of Galicia in plenary session unanimously requested this transfer; certainly, including the vote of the current and then President of the Xunta of Galicia, Mr Núñez Feijóo. The then President of the Galician Parliament and the current Member of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rojo Noguera, knows that I am not lying; she, like me, voted in favour of this move, but later - you see - sixty more years. In the case of Reganosa you are well aware of our position, defended by my colleague, the Member García Mira, in the last legislature, that in his consideration of strategic industry he absolutely and firmly meets all the requirements that the legislation establishes. It can't be any other way, and they're all all. Ladies and gentlemen, we are interested in recovering, protecting and saving our laughs and the proceedings cannot wait. That is why we offer you - if you accept this - to withdraw the point concerning Ence and Reganosa, both yours and ours, and to present them as concrete initiatives because of their complexity - which we all recognise - in subsequent debates; in fact, a GNP from your group on Reganosa is being debated in the Commission this very afternoon. That being the case, the substance of the motion, the strategy for the comprehensive management of Galician ria, would remain. We honestly believe that in this way it would be easier to move the motion forward with more support and, therefore, with more strength. Let us make it difficult for all the forces to vote against this comprehensive management of our laughs, something that we are all interested in and, in particular, for Galician citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u206	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are faced with a parliamentary initiative that can be framed in what is often described in this rostrum as a omnibus motion, because it incorporates an extensive list of seemingly reasonable needs and aspirations, but which clash with the relentless demand for laws and the rule of law and, quite often, with the circumvention of responsibility for different administrations, in a desperate exercise of what is popularly known as passing the ball. In the case of the sanitation and purification of the waters of the Galician rivers, the motion of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea develops in nine points some aspects that, contrary to what the deputy Mr GómezReino has said, are not addressed in this House, because it tries to endorse responsibilities that are alien to the Government of Spain, since they are of exclusive competence of the autonomous community and of the municipalities. In the area of sanitation, I would not like to miss the opportunity of this motion to denounce what is happening in Asturias. For almost ten years it has been waiting for nineteen actions - I repeat, nineteen - that have already been agreed by the state and autonomous administrations and the Hidrographic Confederation of the Cantabrian - then of socialist sign - but that they have done nothing at all, not even the writing of the projects, although they are essential works for important centers of population and rural areas to have adequate sanitation and to avoid toxic discharges to especially sensitive receiving means, such as the salmon rivers Esva, Eo and Narcea, the head of the reservoir of Tanes or coasts such as Tapia de Casariego, Valdés, Ribadesella, Gozón and the ria de Villaviciosa, which, by the way, has closed the shellfish since 2011 for bacterial pollution. Ladies and gentlemen, the key to progress on this issue of sanitation - and we are talking this afternoon about Galician rivers, but it must be extended to Asturias and to all the communities that need these very important environmental quality infrastructures - is the corresponding declaration of works of general interest, which must be carried out by the State administration, but at the request of the respective autonomous government. By the way, this task will have to be implemented by Asturias, as unanimously called for by the General Assembly of the Principality of Asturias three weeks ago at the request of the Forum. Something similar is what the representatives and mayors of En Marea in Galicia should perhaps promote and implement, rather than subject us here, in speaking of sanitation, to this exercise of evanescent literature and dogmatism for infidels, which attempts to unduly drag the Ministry of the Environment, and the Rural and Marine environment to assume what is not theirs and, therefore, without legal authority and capacity to intervene or budgetary obligations to assume. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u207	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr García Díez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Galician laughs 'have been sold to the worst bidder'. I have not gone mad, comrades of the People's Party, this phrase is not mine, it is from Mr Gómez-Kingdom the day he questioned the minister, about a month ago. In addition, he clearly accused this government of privatizing the natural space, of making 'the big picture, not watching over the public goods' and 'for collaborating with the criminals' to destroy the Galician ria - textual words of the Diario de Sesiones -. Not content with these ex-abrupts - democraticly so I tell you, ex-abrupts -, he continued in last week's motion of censure and added: 'to have destroyed the loo, to have allowed its contamination leaving thousands of fishermen and shellfish.' Today he has been more benevolent, today he has just talked about dangerous friendships and friendly industries. Some of the speakers have said this, the motion is a totum revolutum - I will not therefore enter into its disqualification because it would be impossible - and its intention is clear, it is not to approve a set of measures or a series of proposals, no, the purpose is to always damage the image of a government, to damage the image of the People's Party, even if for this reason you must also damage the black image of the Galician ries that you have described so faithfully; the image of a land that you curiously claim to be - I have heard it in the mouth of many of you - your best representatives and valours in Madrid, distorting reality and exaggerating problems here. As our President of the Government told Mr. Pablo Iglesias here last week when he was exaggerating and when he was falsifying the reality of Spain: exaggerating and lying along the same path often goes. I remind you that, as Minister Tejerina clarified in her inquiry, the Government of Spain is not competent in the area of sanitation and purification except in those works which are declared of general interest by law. But despite this, the Government of the nation, the governments that you have described as I recalled a moment ago, have invested more than EUR 1 billion in Galicia since 2009, 600 in galleous rivers, or 60%. About letting the thousands of fishermen and shellfishmen go, I'll tell you something you should know. There was a bipartisan government in Galicia a few years ago that spent between 2006 and 2011 €60 million on paying shellfish workers who could not work in areas C, which are the areas where direct marketing of shellfish was prohibited because they were contaminated, without improving the status of those areas; €82 per day per shellfish worker and without achieving the intended purpose. When the People's Party began to rule, it changed this policy because, as you say, it does care about fishing and shellfishing, and since 2011, changing that model, it is betting to clean up the creeks and has reduced those C zones to more than half, which today are only 7%. The results are in sight, I don't make up the data. Invoicing of bivalve molluscs has been increased by more than 24 %. In the Ferrol region, to which you have referred, sales today are 68% above the average for the last 12 years. Since 2011, shellfish licences have increased by 43 % in the Ferrol range, and in Pontevedra, to which it has also referred, licences have grown by 22,6 % since 2012. In the ria of Pontevedra the permits grow because there is profitability, they grow above the Galician average, and if there is profitability it is because there is good management and because there are good models of environmental recovery. Therefore, neither Ence nor the friends of the People's Party have destroyed the ria of Pontevedra, which neither agonizes nor is in a critical state, Mr Gómez-Reino. [[Applauds]] You've talked about Ence a lot and bad. They continue to entangle in order to occupy headlines, not to seek solutions. The extension of this concession is an administrative act, the minister said here, it is not a whimsical decision of this Government or of any other Government. What this Government did was to enforce court sentences and scrupulously respect the law. Ence is meeting all the parameters of mandatory environmental compliance, plans to invest 61 million as soon as it obtains the corresponding permits, and today we have learned that he is also guilty of the fires in Galicia and the fires in Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen, if you spoke to the mariscadras of Pontevedra you would hear that their concerns are not in the discharges of Ence, but in those of the depuradora de Placeres, the municipal depuradora podevedresa. That's where your concerns are and not in Ence. Time has run out for me and I don't have time to overturn your arguments about Reganosa, but let me tell you that, in order to improve Ferrol's ria, the Mayor of Ferrol has to work with the projects the Administration is trying to carry out, because he was a year to sign an agreement to get A Malata's interceptors into operation. They have started working since April and the result is spectacular. If they'd come in a year ago, I'd be a lot better off laughing. [[Applauds]] So who are those who are harming Ferrol's estuary, Mr. Gómez-Kingdom? Those who have sold the rhymes to the worst bidder, those who collaborate with criminals or mayors linked to Podemos, whether in Marea, be Ferrol in common, whether as they are called, which Mr. Iglesias put here last week as an example of very good management and as an example of the future? Who? For the mayor of Ferrol, unable to take forward projects or block investments in works of other administrations, or the mayor of his city, La Coruña, who is concerned to increase the costs of propaganda by 23%, to change the name to the streets, one street every week, or to stop spending 62 million of the budget of the city of La Coruña. Who's worried? [[Applauds]] I'm done, President. Ladies and gentlemen, from this rostrum I want to tell you that Podemos has drawn a black Galicia. There is here today, in the mouth of Mr Gómez-Reino and on the day of the inquiry, an image that is always used to make his policy, a dark scene of our laughter. Today he has made with his words a contaminant spill from this rostrum, a cascade of accusations and calamities...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u209	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u210	I'll be done in ten seconds, President. In political terms, I hope that those accusations, supported by the immunity given to you by this rostrum, will not be free. I am sure - and I finish - that sooner than later it will be the Galicians who answer with their vote in the ballot box and pass the bill to so much ignominy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u211	I ask Mr Gómez-Reino Varela whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u212	We will still negotiate a compromise to see if it is possible, and if we do not communicate it to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u213	Thank you very much. REPORT ON THE COMPLIANCE OF THE BUDGET OF THE CAMERA FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 31.1.2 OF THE REGULATION. - REPORT ON THE COMPLIANCE OF THE BUDGET OF THE CAMERA FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2016, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 31.1.2 OF THE REGULATION. [[File number 023/000002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u214	Finally, we move on to the debate on the report on the implementation of the House's budget for the financial year 2016, in accordance with Rule 31.1.2 of the Rules of Procedure. This report shall be submitted by the second secretary of the Bureau. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for interventions by the parliamentary groups, but if any group wishes to intervene, it will ask the Bureau to do so. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u215	With your permission, President, I begin to read the report on the implementation of the Congress of Deputies' budget for the financial year 2016. In accordance with the principle of budgetary autonomy, as enshrined in article 72.1 of the Constitution, and in compliance with article 31.1.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, the report on the implementation of the House's budget for 2016 is presented to the plenary, the general lines of which are set out below. The Bureau of the Congress of Deputies, at its meeting of 22 July 2015, approved the draft budgets of the House for 2016, which was integrated into the General Budgets of the State for that year, approved by Law 48/2015 of 29 October, with an overall amount of 85,517,400 euros, which represents 0.03% of the General Budgets of the State. Of the total amount of appropriations initially authorised, those actually committed amounted to EUR 71,104,720, representing an implementation of 83,15 % of the budget initially approved, bringing the uncommitted balance to EUR 14,412,679, representing 16.85 % of the budget. Of the total appropriations committed in the financial year 2016, EUR 64,916,686 were paid during the same obligations, and payments amounting to EUR 6,210,219 were made during 2017, as follows: outstanding payments at 31 December 2016 arising from obligations for the financial year and made between 1 January and 31 March 2017, EUR 6,188,034. Balance in cash at the end of the financial year 2016, EUR 22 184. In addition, several transfers of appropriations approved by the Bureau of the House at its meeting on 8 November 2016 for a total amount of EUR 320 000 have been requested during the financial year 2016. Congress Hall of Deputies, June 21, 2017.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u216	Thank you very much. I have the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cano Fuster.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u217	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies, by means of the principle of budgetary autonomy enshrined in the Spanish Constitution and in the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, prepares its budget annually and implements it, and must submit to the plenary at the end of the financial year a report on its implementation. The 2016 draft budgets were approved at the Bureau meeting held on 22 July 2015, assuming an increase of 1.51% over 2015, and this budget was incorporated into the State General Budgets Act. The House's budget had a weight compared to the overall state budget of 0.03%. If we compare it with one of the countries in our environment this is much lower, with the Camera dei Deputati being 0.10%; the Assembly of the Republic is 0.05% or the House of Commons is 0.01%. In this budget, despite an increase of 1.81% compared to 2015, there has been a part of it that could not be implemented for the period between elections and after the blockade, resulting from the total budget, which amounts to 85,511,347.73 euros, a committed budget of 71,104,720.93, i.e. 85,15 %. It would therefore remain as an uncommitted budget of 16.85 %, thus amounting to EUR 14,412,679.17. If we analyze it by chapters we can observe a high level of implementation, except for the real investments, which were paralyzed until the beginning of the new legislature and the normal functioning in the institutions. These investments will have to be implemented in the next budget. Thus, in Chapter 1, we find staff costs of EUR 36,081,920 and 90,13 % have been implemented. In Chapter 2, current expenditure, with EUR 35,276,400, 75.37 % has been implemented. With regard to financial expenditure, Chapter 3, with EUR 4000, 88 % has been implemented. In Chapter 4, expenditure on current transfers, with EUR 10,681,530, has been implemented 98,88 %. Also in chapter 6, real investments, with 3 473 550 euros, have been implemented only 40,63 %. If there are two clear chapters in terms of their amount and the particular relevance to the normal functioning of the House, these are staff costs and current costs, which are around 90% compliance. In this regard, I would like to make a comment on the concepts of electricity, water and gas supplies, and in the absence of an energy efficiency audit of Congress buildings, this should be included in the following budgets to reduce the high consumption of these concepts; the amount of electricity amounts to €1,329,999.23, as well as the climate footprint we leave and a commitment to combat climate change. I should also like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that during the implementation of the budget there have been transfers of appropriations under the same heading, or between different headings, which are within the normal scope of the implementation of a budget. In conclusion, I would also like to say that in order to dignify the normal functioning of this House, in which national sovereignty resides, we must provide it with the resources necessary for the legislative power to function. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u218	I give the floor to Mr González García, for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u219	Thank you, Madam President. As we have already mentioned in the previous financial year, we are surprised by the lack of rigour involved in this Parliament in the report on the budgetary compliance of the Congress of Deputies, just as we are surprised by the lack of rigour with which this budget is made. Last year we were presented with a budget compliance report that had five pages, plus seven pages of annex to Excel's accounting tables, and we said it seemed a shame to us; this year they present four, with twenty-two Excel sheets, again with accounting tables, but without any kind of explanation, without any kind of economic memory, without any kind of compliance indicator. We therefore believe that it has not improved since the previous exercise. We still do not know what the objectives of the budget are. We still do not know to what extent these objectives are met. We still do not know whether the EUR 85 million budgeted is sufficient to meet the needs of this House. We still do not know whether the fact that only 83 % of the budget has been implemented is too much or too little, because we also do not know those objectives that were intended to be achieved. With these kinds of reports the Congress of Deputies presents on budget compliance would not give a credit or a SME, because they are reports that do not have any relevant information to be able to analyze. We have already said all this a few months ago when we saw the 2015 execution, and we consider it appropriate to remember it because the report has not been improved, and we also believe that we must remember it because, following the statements of Helmets, Rats, Aceves and Major Oreja in the National Audience, we suspect that the party that presides over this House may suffer some kind of collective amnesia, and that is why we must repeat things to it. I have here the budgets of the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. The budgets of the House of Commons include, in addition to the accounts, as presented here, a complete economic memory where compliance and objectives are assessed. In addition, the House of Commons conducts a strategic analysis describing the objectives it has, the objectives that the House wants to fulfil during the legislature and for the next eight years. Comparisons are hateful, but sometimes they serve to improve, and I think that the Congress of Deputies should study a little how other parliaments work to improve in this breakdown of budgets. With the information presented here we know that they are spent on high-end allocations of EUR 17 million, but we also do not know how they are distributed. Citizens in order to be able to consult what a deputy or a deputy is charging have to go to the media, because Congress does not provide them with detailed information on how much each deputy is paying, including constitutional allocation and travel compensation, except in parties like ours, which publish everything on their website. It should be mandatory and Congress itself should do so. We also know that EUR 7 500 000 is spent on contingent personnel. Nor do we know if it is much or little, because it is not being assessed whether this is a possible abuse of personnel or not. There is no evaluation of these expenses. We also know that EUR 992,000 is spent on radio taxi services. Who spent them? Do you meet the criteria for assigning this taxi card? You don't know why it doesn't explain. We also know that EUR 950,000 has been spent on transfer to private companies. We assume, because it does not specify in the report, that it will be about the subsidy to the cafeteria. Is this subsidy necessary to the cafeteria? Is there any kind of analysis done? Some kind of reflection? Nothing. In short, it is a budget compliance report that does not give any kind of information to measure, and is therefore not up to what our citizens demand in terms of transparency. Worst of all, no one knows how this budget is managed more than those who approve it and finally execute it, because the Congress of Deputies, being a constitutional body, does not have detailed control by the Court of Auditors. This is therefore the only report that is publicly or publicly available on budget implementation. We need an adequate breakdown and a series of indicators, both qualitative and quantitative, that allow us to properly analyse the budgets and budget execution of Congress. This House should set an example and be at the forefront in accountability, transparency and accessibility to data, because being transparent is not just publishing Excel sheets, but explaining and reporting on the achievement of the objectives. We, as long as the accounts are not transparent, will come here to try to shed light, just as long as the government party has amnesia here we will be here to refresh its memory and explain to it what is happening and the cases of corruption that remain unexplained. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-06-21-CD170621.u220	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended. It was one and fifty minutes in the afternoon.
