ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with the agenda item on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 16/2017 of 17 November, establishing safety provisions for the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the marine environment. To present the Royal Decree-Law, the Minister of Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u2	Good morning. I appear before the House, before you, ladies and gentlemen, to ask for the vote in favour of the validation of the Royal Decree-Law transposing Directive 2013/30 of the European Union on security in offshore oil and gas operations. It is a very technical directive and the decree-law does what it does directly is to transpose the directive as it is. Because in 2016 we had a government in office and then we had to deal with it throughout 2017, there was a risk of non-compliance with the directive and we could be sanctioned by the European Union. Moreover, it is a directive of little or no application in Spain since we have very few sites of these characteristics, only two, and the directive actually acts when there are at least six of them; therefore, the chances that this directive will be directly applicable in Spain are very low, but it is also true that if it is not transposed we would be subject to sanctions. As I said before, this directive aims to prevent serious accidents in the research and exploitation of underground hydrocarbon deposits and storage in the marine environment and, where appropriate, to limit the consequences of such accidents. It seeks industry to act with the best of the world's standards, which is the so-called North Sea standard. The decree-law makes it possible to move forward with the objective of closing open infringement procedures and thereby avoiding the imposition of economic sanctions on Spain. The deadline for transposition expired on 19 July 2015 and the Commission was planning to refer the matter to the Court of Justice, although obviously, after the adoption of this decree-law, it will not. The content of the Royal Decree-Law, in essence, sets out a number of obligations for operators in the marine environment to manage serious accidents; in particular, operators are required to ensure systematic risk management, the provision of measures for the prevention of serious accidents and, if they occur, to limit their consequences. This is the part that is most applicable to this directive within the Spanish sphere. Thus, at the start of operations in a marine environment, a report on the risks of serious accidents is required, which so far did not exist. Prior to the commencement of the operation in the marine environment, acceptance of such a risk report by a competent authority for the safety of the marine environment shall be necessary. This is the authority to be created when there are at least six sites. In the Spanish case, if there were six, it would have to be created but, today, it is difficult for this to happen. It is true that it is already foreseen in the decree-law itself what would happen in that case. Independent verification programmes should also be established to ensure that a third party checks the adequacy of the design of the installation and the operation to the security measures envisaged. These obligations must be documented and made available to that security authority. The functions and powers of the security authority are described and designated as the competent authority for the purposes of the Directive. The authority has the authority to supervise, inspect and sanction safety in the marine operation, in addition to the authority mentioned above with regard to the validation of the serious risk report. The authority is empowered to require operators as much information as it requires for the performance of their duties. Its powers include prohibiting start-up, paralyzing work or requiring improvements if the operator's safety measures are considered insufficient. Since the number of installations in the maritime environment in Spain is less than six, Spain will make use of the derogation allowed by the Directive, which implies that this independent competent authority is not to be appointed but will be exercised in different public and ministerial spheres. An extreme emergency plan shall be drawn up covering all installations in the maritime environment, specifying the role of the financial obligations of the concessionaires and operators. This plan will be drawn up by the Ministry of Development, together with the other relevant ministries and all operators. Regular exercises and simulations of emergency situations are also planned. The regime for granting permits and concessions of hydrocarbons in the marine environment is improved by establishing additional controls to refuse such permits when it is considered that the applicant does not meet the technical and economic solvency requirements. In addition, infringements relating to the Directive are established by establishing a degree of sanctions based, inter alia, on the damage caused or the resulting danger. As you see, it is a very technical directive, simply on safety issues. It will be difficult to apply it - as I said earlier - in its entirety since we have virtually no underwater deposits or storage in our country. In any case, it has nothing to do with other issues that might arise, such as the exploration of the marine environment because, simply, it may or may not be explored. In any case, this directive has to be transposed; nor does it have to do with other issues relating to the exploration or storage of hydrocarbons. It is simply a matter of security, and I therefore thank the groups which have already expressed their support for the Royal Decree-Law, which, as I say, has only one more than a relative application and which nevertheless helps to make progress in the implementation of Community directives, so that we are restoring the time we need to recover from certain rules that have not been previously dealt with. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u3	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe, first of all, took part in the position-setting exercise by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and everyone. This is a good time to recall the massive rejection in the Canary Islands of the previous minister's commitment to oil explorations in the Canary Islands; a huge social rejection against this decision, which was finally resolved not because the ministry was rectified, but because the prospecting company seemed not to be interested in it. This issue seriously affects the way of life that canaries have and, in a very sensitive way, our environment. We now wonder whether we are in such a hurry to validate the transposition of this directive because, perhaps, if this transposition had been done before, the prospecting in the Canary Islands would not have been possible. We'll always have that doubt. In any case, from the reading of a real decree-law which is indeed highly technical, it gives us the feeling that in the creation of that unique authority - which is fine - it is more concerned with the viability of companies and the control of what may happen, in the event of an accident, than to prevent it. For that reason, although it seems to us that this royal decree-law offers more guarantees than there were, we will abstain because we defend that in sensitive territories, such as the Mediterranean or, in this case, the Canary Islands, it is not really the activity of oil explorations that must be defended. It seems to us that the risks are insurmountable for economies living from what they live, in our case of tourism and with a special significance of the environment. We therefore announce our abstention from the Royal Decree-Law and regret that it has arrived so late in this House. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u5	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, while permits for exploration, research and exploitation of resources in marine environments are the responsibility of the State, the autonomous communities have transferred competences in the environment and these must not be invaded. Once the research activity begins, the Autonomous Communities also have competence to monitor compliance with environmental regulations for these activities. The specific authority that is created should have the autonomous communities, above all because of the need for emergency plans. It should therefore be considered with regard to security plans. For this reason, Coalition Canaria will vote against the validation of this royal decree. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u8	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The directive which is the basis of the text which is being debated should already be repealed by the obsolescence of your approaches in favour of fracking and contrary to a future based on renewable energies, but four and a half years after its promulgation we see that, instead of having devoted yourselves to urging such a derogation, we are urgently being given a real decree for its transposition. In these years many things have happened; for example, in October 2014 we had to disburse 1350 million euros to compensate the company ACS for the closure of the underground castor gas warehouse, but it is that in December 2015 - if you don't know it - the Paris Agreement for the reduction of greenhouse gases was adopted, in the framework of the fight against global warming. We must remember that the European Union is no longer going to be involved, in principle, in the exploitation of the only major oilfields it had so far, those of the North Sea, because they are partly from Norway, they are not from the European Union, and partly from the United Kingdom, which is leaving the European Union. It is dangerous that the directive, in recital 8, opens the door to exploration in difficult seas until now; read the Arctic Sea, which is now not accessible by melting ice. This is something we strongly oppose because, are these the intentions of the directive, irremediably contaminating the last areas we have preserved in Europe? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u9	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u10	Furthermore, Minister, the directive has not been properly transposed, because you are getting out of the way that the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the marine environment will also be extendable to inland waters, and that is not what the directive says. See Article 2.2 of the Directive, which refers only to territorial waters, exclusive economic zone and continental shelf, never to inland waters. What do you want to do, rely on the directive to start looking, for example, at the Bay of Cadiz, at the Manga del Mar Minor or at the Galician rivers? The directive is not properly transposed. You have had four and a half years to do what you should have done, to urge the European Union to repeal it, and what you bring us is something that goes against the objectives of the 2030 Agenda. Of course, Compromís is not going to support this text.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u11	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Postius Terrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, today the government is bringing us a decree-law laying down safety provisions for the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the marine environment, and bringing it to this House not because you are now concerned about the consequences of such activities or because you have now discovered that your policies are clearly insufficient in this area; you are bringing this royal decree for your approval because Europe obliges you to do so. In fact, it should have been adopted more than two years ago, when the official deadline for transposition into national law was over, a surprising situation considering that since 2013 they could have done so, and now they are calling for our support for possible sanctions against such non-compliance. They are therefore late and also now propose to make a proposal for minimums that does not address important issues that we believe should be reflected in this decree-law. Firstly, there is nothing about the exclusion of exploration, research and exploitation of hydrocarbons or other mineral substances in the marine environment of the Mediterranean Sea, an issue that has been dealt with in various committees in Congress. Secondly, there is also absolutely nothing to be said about the demands of the autonomous communities which, like Catalonia, have been demanding for years, that is, that the authorization for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the marine environment of their coasts be approved, a completely logical question, since this type of exploration and exploitation can lead to serious damage in the natural and environmental environment, areas of exclusive competence of the autonomous communities. We therefore ask that this royal decree-law be treated as a bill and that these and other proposals that have been in a drawer for too long be discussed in the course of amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u13	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u14	Thank you, President. Good morning. Egun on. This Royal Decree-Law aims to transpose into our domestic law the Directive on the safety of offshore oil and gas operations to prevent and respond to serious accidents on offshore oil and gas platforms, both in terms of improving response mechanisms in the event of an accident and in order to avoid damage to the environment. In spite of the fact that this matter is intertwined with hydrocarbon farms, it is aimed mainly at emergency and preventive environmental protection issues, which in the case of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country would affect the Gaviota platform, located 5 miles from Bermeo. In addition, such cases as the Prestige, which occurred from a ship but could well take place on a platform, and the enormous implications of the personal and autonomic means that will have to be activated in order to respond to the disasters that may occur, as well as the damage to the natural environment, both maritime and terrestrial, resulting from these accidents. The explanatory statement justifies the use of the royal decree-law exclusively in the fact that there is a backlog of almost two and a half years in transposition, but it cannot be claimed that the extraordinary urgency required by the constitutional precept is present because it is more than predictable in terms of its date of approval and deadline for transposition. When the directive identifies the spatial area in which the legislation will apply it restricts its application to the inland sea; however, the royal decree-law, in a new way moreover, includes inland waters within the sea, and although there is no doubt that it is the consolidated doctrine of the Constitutional Court that in the territorial sea the competition is preferably state, the inclusion of inland waters implies that the autonomous communities are affected by wide competences over these spaces, both with regard to the beaches or maritime-terrestrial zones and intra-Community basins, which in terms of water regulation is called coastal waters. These areas covered by the Royal Decree-Law will be clearly affected in the event of a serious accident on a maritime platform with the arrival at the coast of accidental discharges of hydrocarbons originating on maritime platforms. We therefore believe that questions of autonomous competence linked to the territorial scope of the rule, its object and its actual impact have not been properly considered. As we have said, inland waters have been unduly included, in which the nature of certain matters and the respective interests of the autonomous community give rise to the exercise of autonomous powers in these waters, some expressly included in the respective autonomous statutes, such as in the areas of fisheries, maritime transport, maritime rescue and others for which the wording of the autonomous competition title has its projection on maritime areas such as environmental matter or protected natural areas. In other words, it cannot be excluded a priori that Euskadi has legislative development powers over these facilities when operating in inland waters which affect its competences, although the wording of the competition title does not include a reference to its projection in these areas. More specifically, in inland waters and in view of the actual content of the situations faced here, two other competing titles involved involving the participation of the coastal autonomous communities in the safety and participation measures in the event of serious accidents that could take place in these installations, on the one hand, the environment and, on the other, civil protection, which, although it can be considered included, in the case of the inland sea, in the title of merchant navy, it is no less true that these accidents will on many occasions - as I have said - have an impact and serious consequences on the coast, beaches, ports and other land areas of the coast, where the autonomous communities have competence. We therefore understand that, when this happens, civil protection should be activated with the same principles of coordination and collaboration as for the disasters provided for in Law 17/2015 of 9 July of the National Civil Protection System. In short, the coastal autonomous communities such as Euskadi must collaborate in planning and responding to serious accidents on these platforms and we therefore understand that systems of participation and coordination of all public administrations should be collected in the face of these extraordinary events. In short, the alleged urgency of transposing into the legal system a European standard that should have been enacted more than two years ago has prevented the adaptation to the national system of a coordinated system between all administrations to ensure the prevention of serious accidents on the oil platforms of our coasts and also the participation in internal and external emergency plans in which the autonomous communities will necessarily be involved, if they are active. Despite what has been said so far, we will vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law but we will request that its content be treated as a draft law in order to be able to adapt the precepts to the law by means of the corresponding legislative procedure in which Basque space and competition areas are clearly involved, particularly civil and environmental protection systems. Eskerrik asko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u15	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u16	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will all recall that the unfortunate catastrophe in the Gulf of Mexico occurred in 2010. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u17	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u18	Following this, on 12 June 2013, the European Union takes out Directive 2013/30/EU, which also tells us that it should have been transposed before 19 July 2015, and I remind you that we are ending 2017. The government made a commitment to make a small transposition of some specific point in 2014, just before the start of these explorations in the waters near the Canary Islands, an adaptation of minimums that it did was to amend Law 11/2014 of 3 June, which in turn amended 26/2017, on respect for environmental law. In 2016, the European Commission sent us reasoned opinions, i.e. it gave us another earshake because it understood that both Spain and three other countries had not correctly transposed the directive or that there were many gaps and shortcomings in its transposition. They would give us two months to comply, only two months, if they did not take us to the European Court of Justice and could fine us. I think it is obvious that every time the fine alarm rings, the government suddenly starts to take on another kind of speed. But it has had to pass not two months but a year for this transposition to come complete or complete? In Citizens we are in favour of transposing European directives, but we believe that it is necessary to introduce all measures of qualified protection, that is, to take into account our environment and also our environment. In Europe, most oil and gas productions take place at sea, known as offshore, and for all who are close to the sea we know that the sea has no borders, that there can be an accident on the coast of a country and that the effects are seen in the country next door or even in the country that is a little further away. That is why we demand more security and that there really is more commitment. At the time that directive came out in Spain there were twenty-five research permits in force offshore, eight operating and twelve research permits. We can mention incidents or we can mention the need for this directive by recalling those five hundred earthquakes that took place with the prospections of the Castor project. I think there has been a lot of discussion here about this project and it makes it clear that these directives need to be transposed. Given the mix of the European Union - I am referring to the energy mix - we understand that these offshore operations are important, but that is precisely why we need to raise safety standards even further and make them as secure as possible, especially because we are playing with our coasts, our seas and our environment. I think the government's lewdness remains palpable, and in that you will agree with me, Minister, since we left in 2013, we had two years to transpose it, we were given a shot of ears giving us two months of deadline and we waited a year to bring it in. It is about reducing risks, not acting because we can be fined, and I think that is what is lacking in the conscience of this Government. We could say that this transposition has a high degree of fidelity, but not a hundred percent. One of the things he does introduce is that there needs to be a serious risk report before the exploitation starts or before it starts operating, which I think none of you will think logical. Obviously, when you start the project you will have to have a risk report. But it introduces a novelty that is the creation of the competent authority for the safety of marine hydrocarbon operations. It is, or should be, a question of ensuring objectivity and transparency. But here we have to outline something and it is that the government gives an absolute allergy that there are independent authorities that can establish criteria, and I say absolute allergy because it is accepted in this directive to an additional first provision in which in the end the powers of this agency or the decision is taken by the ministry. We demand that it be an independent authority, like all control bodies, because, if we are never to ensure that the reports are real and faithful, not only on environmental protection. Furthermore, we believe that this agency must have competence not only in maritime matters, but also in industrial safety, work, social security and, above all, prevention of occupational risks. The only reference that this transposition that brings us today to integrated maritime policy should serve to achieve good environmental status, by 2020 at the latest. And the only reference to the European Union Marine Strategy is in Article 3.3, which I will literally read: In assessing the applicant's technical and financial capabilities, the marine and coastal environment will be considered particularly ecologically sensitive, in particular those ecosystems that damage the important role in the mitigation and adaptation of climate change and marine protected areas. We need to develop the role of this agency to ensure the protection of our marine environment by prohibiting invasive or undesirable techniques. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u19	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u20	Thank you, Madam President. For example, high pressure compressed air cannons that have been used in seismic prospecting in the cetacean mitigation corridor in the leventino-ballar marine demarcation. Citizens are already committed to that corridor being protected, but we lack a lot of awareness of marine biodiversity, perhaps because we do not see it, because we do not touch it, but we lack much in this Chamber. This proposal, brought by the Government, also obviates public participation and transparency. We will adopt this initiative, but we will demand that it be treated as a bill because we believe that many environmental aspects need to be included. To conclude, I'm going to talk to you about a personal experience. Those of us who have collaborated or worked in various NGOs with marine animals - in my case, with sea turtles - know that marine biodiversity is not born, nourished, grown and reproduced in the same place. They can be born on one side, cross a continent, feed on another continent and return; in this case, nest on the coasts where they were born, as happens with sea turtles. What does that mean? That the sea, unfortunately for many, has no borders. The sea transports all the safety mistakes that are made and all the deficiencies through its waters or, what is the same, its marine biodiversity suffers all the mistakes that we make. Perhaps because I have had the pleasure of collaborating with such animals or working for their protection, everything that means environmental safety is necessary and we should all be committed. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u21	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree comes to debate in Congress precisely when a few weeks ago the government vetoed the proposal for a law on oil exploration in the Mediterranean, adopted unanimously by all parliamentary groups in the Balearic Parliament, including the People's Party. Last April Parliament adopted by assent a proposal for a law to reject oil explorations in the Mediterranean with the aim of protecting the sea under Spanish jurisdiction from the potential deterioration in the marine environment of the exploration, research and exploitation of hydrocarbons or other mineral substances. On arriving at this Congress of Deputies, the Government vetoed the transmission of this rule by squandering budgetary losses. The Executive sent a letter to Congress denying the procedure of the rule, claiming that it would entail a budget decrease of 4.7 million euros and could lead to the payment of another 164, information that we can certainly deny and is denied by all the drivers of this bill. We and the opposition as a whole have already been vetoed by the Government for forty-three initiatives, but today we see that not only are the opposition's initiatives vetoed, but the People's Party vetoes itself. We wonder whether when it was passed in the Balearic Parliament they knew that this proposal for a law prohibiting oil exploitation in the Mediterranean Sea was not going to enter, that it was going to be vetoed - the People's Party voted, therefore, in Balearics knowing that it was not going to get anywhere and, therefore, they were deceiving their voters and public opinion, which is massively opposed to oil exploitation - or they did it simply because you don't care what public opinion in Balearics thinks. In any case, the important thing is that relevant initiatives coming from an autonomous Parliament have been vetoed, and this is one of them, which is very relevant. Today, the Government brings us to its approval this royal decree-law transposing Directive 2013/30/EU of 12 June 2013 on the safety of offshore oil and gas research and exploitation operations which should have been applied to domestic law before 19 July 2015; that is, it comes, as has already been shown, more than two years late, and they now ask us for urgent approval to try to close open infringement procedures for delay and thus avoid the imposition of economic sanctions on Spain. First of all, we are drawn to this delay in the transposition of this directive, the aim of which is to ensure that operators of marine gas or oil platforms comply with a number of obligations to reduce risks and ensure safety in the design and research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the marine environment. And it draws our attention because precisely at that time when it had to have been transposed by the People's Party government, oil farms were being driven on the coasts of the Canary Islands. I do not think this delay is accidental, but rather I am afraid it has to do with the desire to make life easier for oil operators, avoiding or delaying the transposition of a directive imposing certain obligations on operators on these platforms. It would really be alarming if the transposition of directives in our country were to be at the mercy of business interests. In any case, all that is to increase the security conditions for people and the environment in such a dangerous activity seems appropriate to us, although we request that it be treated as a bill and not as a royal decree, as it raises serious doubts about the fulfilment of the requirements for its processing as a royal decree-law. I insist that, although increasing security conditions is good news, we believe that we need to go much further and that is why we are not going to vote in favour of this initiative. Although we welcome the provisions of the competent authority for the safety of marine operations, we hope that it will be an objective and independent body vis-à-vis third parties. We will be demanding with the activity that develops that authority. In fact, we propose, in line with the bill put forward in this Congress by the Balearic Parliament, as I have already explained, that the exploration, research and exploitation of hydrocarbons or other mineral substances in the marine environment over which the Spanish State exercises or can exercise jurisdiction that reaches at least the protection of natural resources should be excluded in Spanish waters. We also demand that exploration through seismic acquisitions, whatever its purpose, be excluded from such a marine space, unless technologies whose complete safety for the marine environment is scientifically proven are used. We do this because dependence on hydrocarbons, which has dominated the energy policy of the 20th century, is in its final phase. Environmental, social and economic impacts as serious as those caused by climate change have led to an increasing voice of alarm. In this regard, it is not consistent to explore or investigate new fossil fuel sites when the International Energy Agency and the United Nations have shown that if the effects of large-scale climate change are to be avoided, most available fossil fuel reserves should be left unburned in order not to irreversibly increase emissions to the atmosphere of carbon dioxide, the main gas causing global warming on the planet. In addition, such exploration, research and exploitation activities involve making an effort contrary to the commitments made by the European Union and the State to achieve an efficient and intelligent energy sector, based 100% on savings, efficiency and renewable energy as the only sustainable response to the problem of climate change. The limit for the exploration, research and exploitation of offshore hydrocarbons can no longer be only technological capacity, but it is necessary to reserve large areas of hydrocarbon exploration, research and exploitation not only for the protection of marine ecosystems and the biological diversity of these spaces, but also for the necessary preservation of the geodiversity that these non-renewable natural resources represent. This is also appropriate, with the power of the European Union to retain Member States, in order to determine within their respective territories the areas in which the exploration, exploitation and production of hydrocarbons will be authorised under Directive 94/22/EC on the subject. Therefore, our proposal is to go beyond this directive and put forward the total ban on the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, following, for example, what the French Government is doing, which proposes the ban on the extraction of hydrocarbons both on land and at sea. We believe that this is the way forward if we are truly committed to combating climate change and protecting marine diversity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u23	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Lucio Carrasco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the validation of a real decree-law which, as has already been pointed out, is transposing Directive 2013/30/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013 on the security of offshore oil and gas operations. This Directive in turn amends 2004/35/EC and harmonises the regulation at European level of safety in the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in marine environments. It is certainly a necessary and inescapable transposition that, however, once again, our country is late, as it should have been transposed before 19 July 2015. In this sense this urgent approval by means of royal decree-law... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u25	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u26	... tries to close the infringement procedures opened by the delay and thus avoid the imposition of economic sanctions on Spain. On account of responsibility, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will approve it, but I would remind the Minister that things must be done in due course. I would also remind you that, as Commissioner Arias Cañete has told us, there is another infringement procedure initiated on an issue which has been approved by this Parliament on numerous occasions, but to which you have listened deafly. It is the complete transposition of the Energy Efficiency Directive for the installation of individual heating meters. Returning to the matter, it is necessary to approve it by incorporating additional safety requirements for offshore hydrocarbon farms in order to avoid taking risks. To this end, among the obligations imposed on operators who investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the marine environment, is the preparation of a report on the risks of serious accidents that is updated and that will have the participation of workers... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u27	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u28	...which is of high interest. It also requires that the verification of all critical elements for safety be carried out by an external third party independent of the operator. The Royal Decree-Law also establishes the competent authority for the safety of marine operations in the field of hydrocarbons, whose function will be to ensure that the exploitation of hydrocarbons is carried out with maximum security and whose functions will include supervision, inspection, cooperation in investigations, investigation of sanctioning files, validation of reports of serious risks... Finally, this authority may also paralyse or prohibit work if the safety measures of the installations or operations proposed by the operator are considered insufficient. It may also object to granting an investigation permit or an operating concession if it considers that the applicant does not have sufficient technical and economic capacity. This rule will also oblige the Ministry of Development. It will have to cooperate with the agents and administrations involved in drawing up an external emergency plan covering all installations in the marine environment, specifying the role and financial obligations of the concessionaires and operators. The Royal Decree deepens the necessary transparency, including the organization of exercises and simulations of emergency situations, as well as the publication of reports and information on the development of these activities, which will be publicly available. Without prejudice to this and our support for this validation, the Socialist Group believes that we must go further. We need to take more steps in the real defense of marine ecosystems. The various oil or gas-related accidents at sea show that drilling in the marine environment is not safe and poses a serious threat to these ecosystems and their fauna. Spain is a signatory to most international agreements for the protection of the marine environment and, as a member of the European Union, has adapted its legal system to Community rules for the protection of biodiversity. In fact, Law 42/2007 of 13 December 2007 on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity created the figure of marine protected area and Law 41/2010 of 29 December 2010 on the Protection of the Marine Environment formally created the network of marine protected areas of Spain. There are a significant number of research permits and oil prospecting permits for the exploitation of hydrocarbons that pose a serious risk to the environment and this must be more secure. The Socialist Group does not consider it coherent to initiate new activities for the exploration, research and exploitation of hydrocarbons if the effects of climate change are to be avoided and if we want to comply with the commitments made by the European Union. Countries in our environment that are particularly sensitive to the risks that the exploitation of hydrocarbons can cause in the terrestrial sphere and in the marine environment are working towards the progressive withdrawal of these activities. Spain must also make progress in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, the protection of the sea under Spanish jurisdiction; the possible deterioration in the marine environment of activities involving the exploration, research and exploitation of hydrocarbons or other mineral substances and the high risk posed by such activities call for their prohibition. The Socialist Parliamentary Group is working on an initiative to ban the exploration, research and exploitation of hydrocarbons or other mineral substances in the marine environment over which our country exercises jurisdiction, which at least achieves the protection of natural resources. We are also working to ban exploration in this marine space by seismic acquisitions, whatever their purpose, unless technologies whose complete safety has been scientifically proven are used. In this sense, while approving the validation of the royal decree-law that we deal with we socialists work, to prohibit these activities in Spanish waters. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Anaya has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u30	Thank you, Madam President. We thank the Socialist Parliamentary Group for allowing the adoption of this royal decree for its urgent need. Furthermore, we do not understand those groups who do not want to approve it because they are then in favour of a sanctioning file being opened for Spain for not transposing this directive. The truth is, they would have to justify why they agree with this. The object of this royal decree has already been clearly explained by the minister and is to prevent and reduce serious accidents that may occur in the marine environment and to limit the consequences of this if they occur. It is clear that this is part of the strengthening of environmental control already established by the People's Parliamentary Group and the Government of Mariano Rajoy in 2013, in the X Legislature. This legislature passed the Environmental Assessment Act, a law which for the first time requires that when hydraulic fracturing techniques occur they must be subject to environmental assessment, until then this was not the case. Also for the first time, thanks to this Environmental Assessment Act, projects involving seismic research activities will have to pass an environmental impact assessment. Finally, as part of the environmental impact assessment studies, the danger that seismicity can cause both in the marine environment and on land will have to be verified. Environmental control is therefore being further strengthened. This has been discussed before the competent authority for the safety of marine operations. In Spain, as everyone knows, there are only two installations currently in the marine environment, Gaviota, off the coasts of Bermeo which is a gas warehouse, and Casablanca, off the coasts of Tarragona, an oil extraction plant with only 5000 barrels day; I say the figure because if we take into account the consumption of Spain which is practically one million, it is relevant to see that it does not have a very important dimension. These two facilities can be fully monitored and controlled by the Ministry of Energy. Whoever proposes that the authority, without being necessary, be constituted, is talking about new officials, more public expenditure and, therefore, increasing the number of officials assigned to an activity that can be perfectly monitored by the ministry. As far as the competition issue is concerned, we do not agree with some opinions either. [[Rumors]] What this royal decree does...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u31	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u32	What this royal decree does is to establish security standards for the entire national territory. We do not understand why there are competition difficulties in some parties, which are fundamentally nationalist. On the contrary, a national and European standard of safety in the marine environment is being established. He said that strengthening is environmental control and that, therefore, this demonstrates once again the commitment of the People's Parliamentary Group and the Government to the blue economy, to the development of sustainable growth in the marine environment and the maritime environment. This is demonstrated, for example, by the support of the Canary Islands' ocean platform, which you know is a basic, scientific infrastructure, where projects related to wave energy, tidal energy or offshore wind generation technology are being tested. This protection is also a good opportunity to speak and defend aquaculture or marine biotechnology or, as well, everything related to coastal tourism or maritime tourism. We therefore believe that the adoption of this royal decree is necessary. We believe that it brings together, on the one hand, the need for any country to know what natural resources it has and, on the other, the environmental protection that this type of research and this type of activity requires. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u33	Thank you very much. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 17/2017, OF 17 NOVEMBER, AMENDING LAW 28/2005, OF 26 DECEMBER, OF HEALTH MEASURES FRONT OF TOBACQUISM AND GOVERNING THE SALE, SUBMINISTRATION, CONSUMPTION AND PUBLICITY OF THE PRODUCTS OF TOBACCO, TO TRANSPOSE DIRECTIVE 2014/40/EU OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL OF 3 APRIL 2014. [[File number 130/000023]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u34	We now turn to the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 17/2017 of 17 November, amending Law 28/2005 of 26 December on health measures against smoking and regulating the sale, supply, consumption and advertising of tobacco products, to transpose Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014. To present the Royal Decree-Law, the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u35	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want my first message to be to thank us as a country; thank you because we are able, among all, to recognize that health is one of our most precious assets, that we must care for and protect. For more than forty years we have built among all an impressive National Health System, with exceptional health professionals and with an incredible structure of medical services, care and basic portfolio that leaves no one behind and that runs all corners of Spain. And all this thanks to the fact that we, both as citizens and as patients, have actively contributed to sustaining and preserving it. In these forty years we have shown that our welfare state and, in particular, our health have been able to adapt to the new challenges that have been put before us. We are currently witnessing an epidemiological transition in which chronic diseases are the leading cause of preventable morbidity and mortality in our country. We have therefore moved on from guiding our efforts to assist sick people to prevent the disease; that is why the Spaniards are of the longest-lived, being our country the second largest in the world in life expectancy. Spain is a country of reference for our National Health System within and outside our borders. This is how the specialized magazine The Lancet ratified it again last week. Our health system is a living, continuously improving system that revolves around a fundamental premise: that public health involves us all. Caring involves not only caring, but above all preventing, because caring is not a luxury but a responsibility. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u36	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u37	According to the World Health Organization, 23 per cent of deaths occurring annually worldwide are related to environmental causes. We are talking about more than 12 million people worldwide and 1,400 000 people in Europe alone who die from stroke, heart disease, respiratory disease and cancer and all these deaths could be preventable because they are caused by air pollution, excessive alcohol consumption, tobacco, unhealthy diets or sedentary lifestyles. That is why our health of the present and of the future lies in focusing our efforts on prevention. Public health involves not only administrations but also each and every one of us. That is why we must work to make ourselves aware that we are responsible for our well-being and health. We must be aware that when we smoke a cigarette we are limiting our quality of life and that of the rest of the people we have around us and that we become passive smokers. The same is true when we do not rest enough, when we are too long sitting or when we add more sugar than is necessary to our diet. It is evident that the disease comes unannounced, even when we take care of ourselves inside and outside. That is why we in the Government are working to raise awareness among all people about the care of their own health, because the most important thing is their life, their talent, their ability to overcome and give their best of themselves. As I told you, public health involves us all, and we must all be involved in achieving a healthy Spain of citizens who care for themselves and others. That is why we in this Government are working for real and effective prevention, promoting healthy lifestyles to prevent diseases such as overweight, hypertension and diabetes. The Government is also facing overweight, especially among the younger ones, who are the unconscious protagonists of one of the evils of our twenty-first century, which is obesity. It makes no sense that being Spain's garden in Europe, with a Mediterranean diet envied in the rest of the world, we still have citizens with an excessive burden that seriously harms their health. Stopping the obesity epidemic is not easy, and it is even more difficult to reverse its trend. But thanks to our active policy of prevention and awareness, we have been able to slow down the increase in child and adolescent obesity in Spain, and we have reduced the prevalence of overweight by more than 3%, placing our country 2 percentage points below the average of overweight in Europe. Another preventive measure is the promotion of moderate consumption of sugar, salt and saturated fats, which cause considerable health complications. In the ministry we are working to finalize the collaborative plan for the improvement of the composition of food and drink in Spain, which will gradually reduce the sugar, salt and saturated fats in the food we consume, and all this thanks to the voluntary, sincere and responsible involvement of the agri-food sector and the manufacturing, distribution, selling, modern restoration and catering sectors, because health involves everyone. Another major measure of prevention is awareness of responsible alcohol consumption, especially among the youngest. The data reflect a worrying reality, that 9 out of 10 students aged fourteen to eighteen feel that it is easy or very easy to get alcohol and that 22% of young people admit to being drunk in the last month and 32% to have made a consumption at a time of consumption. That is why the Government is working to address this public health problem, and you in the Courts, through the Joint Commission on Drugs, are preparing a report in the paper that will address how to avoid alcohol consumption in minors. That is why in the ministry we are also working on awareness-raising measures and campaigns, such as the one recently presented under the slogan 'Education, Information and Prevention'. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u38	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u39	Tobacco consumption is also a matter of concern, because the data reflect a reality that also affects young people in particular. Tobacco is the second most widespread addiction among students between the ages of fourteen and eighteen. More than 18% of young people between 15 and 24 years of age smoke daily, and more than 130 000 students started smoking in 2014. This fight against smoking does not understand ideologies because, as I said at first, it is a matter of public health. We are all working for more than ten years to reduce their consumption, and the data show that with the adoption of laws against smoking in 2005 and 2010, we have achieved great achievements. We have managed, first, to be aware of the harmful effects that tobacco has on our health. 12.8% of smokers say they have stopped smoking or smoked less because of the impact of the measures of these laws, and that is a success for all. Secondly, we have also managed to reduce hospital income rates for acute myocardial infarction by 7%; cerebrovascular disease by 3.2%; and asthma by 12.6%. Behind all these figures are stories of saved lives that represent a health conquest over the disease. But despite all these preventive actions, more than 100,000 people continue to die every year in our country because of tobacco. Therefore, this royal decree that we present today is not an option, it is a firm and conscious decision of all who are here, in favor of the health of our citizens. Today we are presenting the transposition of two European directives. The first is 2014/40/EU on the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products. The second directive is the 2014/109/EU, which establishes the new library of graphic warnings to be used in tobacco products themselves. These two directives have been transposed into our legal system by 95% by Royal Decree-Law 579/2017, adopted at the last Council of Ministers on 9 June. As for the part that remains to be transposed, today we present it to validation through this royal decree that we bring to debate and which was validated in the Council of Ministers held on 17 November. This validation is necessary to preserve health, prevent the disease of citizens, comply with Community legislation and assume our responsibility. I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for the will they have had since the beginning of dialogue and agreement for the well-being of citizens' health. Let me explain to you the main objectives of the transposition of these directives. First, we are making progress in protecting the health of tobacco smokers and related products. We are also making progress in protecting passive smokers and all those who are susceptible to some day's consumption. Secondly, we harmonize with the European Union the health measures against smoking and the regulation of the sale, supply, consumption and advertising existing in Spain. In this way, we guarantee the quality of tobacco ingredients and additives and make progress in raising awareness to promote prevention and protection. To ensure the quality of tobacco ingredients and additives, the placing on the market of tobacco products with characteristic aromas: vitamins, caffeine, taurine and other associated additives is prohibited. This avoids harmful effects on the health of consumers because all the products I have mentioned are stimulants that cause changes in blood pressure or palpitations. Manufacturers and importers of tobacco products are also required to report all ingredients and emission levels, which will be recorded on a computer portal. Therefore, it allows us to have more transparency in the ingredients of tobacco products, a control of these ingredients, which could be toxic and, therefore, what we preserve is the protection of consumers. A register of manufacturers, importers and distributors of related products is also introduced in order to have better market control and to protect and benefit consumers. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u41	With regard to electronic cigarettes and products made with smoking herbs, it is the first time in Spain that we have compared their regulation to that of tobacco in terms of composition, labelling and safety requirements, prioritizing protection, especially for minors and consumers in general. Consumers are also required to be alerted to adverse health effects in packages - as well as in tobacco packs. Secondly, in order to ensure awareness and to promote prevention and protection, health warnings of texts and images are required in boxes to occupy 65% of the front and rear faces and 50% of the sides. Information on the importance of quitting smoking should also be included. It also prohibits for the first time the marketing of tobacco for oral use, because of its very negative health effects, as well as the cross-border sale of electronic cigarettes. Ponds are also prohibited from selling tobacco products remotely. This is how we manage to control illegal trade and prevent uncontrolled products from entering our country that contain possible ingredients that are harmful to our health. The conditions of advertising, promotion and sponsorship of e-cigarettes are tightened, classifying unauthorized practices as very serious infringements. And the special regime of the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands in fiscal terms is modified - in response to the request made by the Canary Islands Coalition - from the existing division of competition in both the national legal system and Community legislation. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with the conviction that we are a country that thinks about people, about their well-being and about the realization of a healthy life project that prevents, promotes and protects one of our most precious goods, which is health. That is why today is an important day for all of us and for our project to make a society healthier and more responsible. With the validation of this royal decree-law we are taking a step forward in prevention and protection and we are gaining more years of life in the best possible conditions. Health protection is the responsibility of public administrations and also a right that we must guarantee to each and every one of our citizens. Today, again, we show that Spain is a great country concerned about the well-being of our citizens and our health, because taking care is not a luxury, but a responsibility. I hope and hope that today this House will support the validation of this royal decree-law, because it is another step in this care and promotion of the health of all citizens and because, at the same time, we are completing the transposition of the European directive by avoiding sanctions. I would like once again to thank all the parliamentary groups for the dialogue, the understanding and the willingness to put together efforts for the sake of public health, which involves us all. Likewise, as you accompany us to the rostrum, I would like to thank the Secretary General of Health and his entire team, his Director General of Public Health, for the efforts they have made in the past year to achieve the validation of this royal decree. The present and future of our health requires greater prevention and protection. Thank you so much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, it will be the last time in the morning that I tell you to remain silent. Keeping quiet is silence, not that there are twenty chats at the same time in the Chamber. It is an absolute lack of respect for the speaker, and it is impossible to be in this gallery for hours, impossible, listening to the permanent murmur. Above all, it is a lack of respect; it has now been to the Minister, but it is a lack of respect for all the speakers. So, please, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to have a chat, get out of the Chamber and have the chat out. Mr Quevedo Iturbe spoke at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. First, we announce that New Canarias will support the validation of this royal decree-law. We do not need to insist that we fully agree, from the point of view of public health, on the need to combat tobacco and smoking from all possible fronts. However, we want to refer to one issue, namely the regulation of the sale of tobacco. This generates some situations that for the Canary Islands are very special. I have to acknowledge the sensitivity or diligence of the government when we moved them that for the tobacco sector in the Canary Islands this transposition, as it had been, would have been a severe blow to the sector given the unique conditions of the archipelago. We must again insist that we are not talking about privileges; we are saying that the sector operates in a different way in the Canary Islands and, therefore, when the fourth additional provision recognizes what was already in the fourth additional provision of the amending decree, it reassures the sector at the tremendous risk that it would have to suffer very serious consequences if its unique features were not recognized. I have to say that the tobacco sector in the Canary Islands represents approximately 3500 jobs and, in addition, together with bananas and tomatoes, it is the only relevant export sector that has Canary Islands at present facing the outside world, with 147 million euros, essentially not of cigarettes, but of cigarettes. Therefore, we will support this royal decree-law. We believe that it is very important that the Canary Islands have been recognized and that it is extremely important that, from the point of view of public health, action be taken on all fronts against the phenomenon of smoking. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u44	Thank you very much. Mrs Oramas González-Moro also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u45	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to greet the representatives of the Tobacco Bureau who have fought so hard for the preservation of a historic industry in the Canary Islands, but which is also of fundamental importance in thousands of jobs in distribution. It must be said, Madam Minister, that the Canary Islands is the autonomous community that the least adult smokers have; what happens is that we have 13 million tourists, which represent a very important economic activity for the Canary Islands. The Canary Islands has been outside the scope of the Spanish tobacco monopoly since the establishment of the free ports in the 19th century. The distribution of tobacco in the Canary Islands is completely different from that in the Peninsula and the Balearic Islands. This own regulation is fundamental to maintaining this industry, but we also have a specific economic and fiscal regime recognised by the European Commission and which forms part of the constitutional framework, because it is thus recognised in the Spanish Constitution. Moreover, the decree passed over the previous months - which was therefore not a decree-law - obviated this part, which is not health, is essentially fiscal, but it invaded the powers of the autonomous community and our Economic and Fiscal Regime was overrun. I would like to thank the Minister for this special sensitivity and, above all, to say that the Parliament of the Canary Islands has repeatedly, unanimously of all its political forces, required the Government to save that invasion of competence in the autonomous community and our fundamental economic and fiscal regime. In any case, the Bureau of Tobacco and the Government of the Canary Islands will assume their powers and responsibilities in order to improve the guarantees that we have to cover in the area of competence of each of the Autonomous Communities. For all this - now yes -, Coalition Canaria will support the validation of this decree. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u46	Thank you very much. Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u47	Thank you, Madam President. May 20, 2016 was the deadline you had to transpose this European directive. It is not free then that the Spanish State is the Member State that accumulates the most infringement proceedings. You have not done your homework and Spain has gone from being at the head of tobacco prevention to being in line. We will vote yes because our commitment to prevention is unequivocal, but public opinion must also know that the countries of the European Union that make laws striving to move forward must consult with the rest of the Member States and, surprisingly, Spain is one of the States that always opposes these laws in order to continue to move forward, that is to say, they do not or do not allow to do so. You're irresponsible, and you're just mouth-to-mouth legalists, and you're following them in your absurd Citizens and socialists, and we're gonna see who disappears... [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] And I'm done. I suggest to the Members of the People's Party that they stop doing ridiculous things by giving legal lessons, because today's royal decree and the previous one are one more example of you passing the legality and responsibility for the lining. Thank you and freedom political prisoners. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u48	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Igea Arisketa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u49	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister. Let me start my speech by addressing the Socialist Party and Mrs Lastra to show you this chart This chart shows the decrease in cigarette consumption in Spain from 2000 to 2015, and shows that the two laws that the Socialist Party has made are two successful laws and two of the best things that have been done for public health in Spain. [[Displays a graph]] And I tell you this, Mrs Lastra, to point out that we are where we were; we are in the evaluation of public policies and in the measurement of results. Perhaps what happens is not that we move, as you say, but that the universe is not'stone' and you are one more planet and you are on your way to the orbit of Podemos and you may end up becoming a wandering star. [[Applauds]] Having said that, I will tell you that, indeed, the laws against tobacco in Spain have been a model of success, and have been a model of success for what the Minister said, which is reflected in the second report of the General Courts of Public Health Impact Assessment, excellent report. This report says that the ministry has effective and trained staff to assess public policies; it is an excellent report that says, among other things, that it has effectively decreased mortality from heart attack, reduced mortality from asthma and decreased tobacco consumption 8 points according to the OECD. But it also says other things: that the decline in recent years has been much smaller, that we are still at the head of the OECD tobacco consumer group, with countries such as Indonesia, Greece, Turkey, Russia or Lithuania - well above the OECD average of tobacco consumption - and that, of course, although policies have been successful, something more needs to be done, and something more means that we had a great opportunity with this directive three years ago to have made a bill, a renewal of the Tobacco Law that included many other improvements. However, you have, as always, reached the limit of the fine, to the limit of the penalty. What happens is that we can hardly argue, as the Spanish Constitution says, that this is a case of exceptional urgency and necessity, because article 86 reserves the decree-law for these cases, exceptionality and urgency, but after three years, man, it does not seem to have been an urgency. And it is that you, with this system of decree-laws, are skipping the division of powers, because it is not the task of the executive to legislate, it is the task of this Parliament. You are having this custom, and not just you, and I will prove it to you here. Look, this is the evolution of decree-laws in Spain: we start at 17% and we are at 33%; 33% of legislative activity is decree-laws. [[Displays a graph]] This is to subvert the separation of powers and subvert the constitutional order; this cannot continue like this. For this reason in Citizens we raise, among our constitutional reforms, the need to eliminate decree-laws as a usual way of governing. This opportunity which you have missed and which you have glossed over with such an inspiring speech about the National Health System, with that emotional speech in which we have spoken about tobacco, obesity, the goodness of the system, seems to have been your initiative, when it is a simple transposition of a directive which the European Commission has made; the speech is well enough to flatter the members of the European Commission with this directive, but we have simply transposed it. But we do not want to miss this opportunity, and therefore, and according to Sespas, the Spanish Society of Public Health and Health Administration, we believe that this is a good time to start other reforms, to include other amendments, and that is why we are going to request the processing of the decree as an urgent bill, because we think it is a good opportunity to take another step in the fight against tobacco, which is a good opportunity to take another step in favour of public health. By the way, I would like to say to the gentlemen of the Canarian parties that it is true that little tobacco is consumed in the Canary Islands, they say, but it has a singularity, and that it has one of the highest mortality and incidence rates due to ischemic heart disease in the country. Maybe you should look at that, too. In short, it is a good opportunity to improve our public health and it is also a good opportunity, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, to put an end to the bad smoke. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u50	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u51	Thank you, Madam President. I speak very briefly from the seat. Of course, it is a transposition of a European directive that comes late and I too believe that it is something that needs to be denounced. We cannot wait until the last moment, until the bell has sounded, but not in this, but in many other matters that we are dragging, because that in the end does harm the whole legislative process and give a painful image in this matter, a matter related to health, which is so important. Clearly, the issues that arise are clear, and I believe that there is nothing controversial in this directive. We are talking about where to sell and some modification, because the consumption system has also changed and it is no longer cigarette tobacco the only one that is currently being consumed. For our part, therefore, we have no question to add to what has already been said. I just agree that you can't leave so late and you have to be much more attentive to a subject as important as that of health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u52	Thank you very much. Mrs Botejara Sanz has the floor for the Confederal Confederal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Tobacco, which is the subject we are dealing with, is related to twenty-five diseases, twenty-five. He is responsible for 85% of lung cancers, 75% of chronic bronchitis and 25% of ischemic heart disease. This is to focus on the subject. The 2001 European Union Directive, thanks to collectives and professional associations, was amended, and the European Union drew up the 2014 Directive, which has already been commented on here, for transposition by the rest of the Member States. I agree with everything the previous speakers have said about the delay of this transposition, which has been carried out on the basis of minimums, because the European directive says that stricter rules on additives or packaging of tobacco products can be introduced, but none of this is envisaged here. Let us comment in general on this transposition that brings us here. The prohibition on the marketing of tobacco for oral use is included; the cross-border sale of nicotine release devices and refill containers is prohibited; the advertising, promotion and sponsorship regime is amended; the regime for infringements to manufacturers, importers or distributors of tobacco products, nicotine release devices and refill containers is amended; and the cross-border distance sale to consumers is also prohibited. These are the general lines of this royal decree, but the reality is that this revolves around two products. The first is electronic cigarettes, which should meet a number of guarantees. These electronic cigarettes emerged in China in 2006 and spread all over the world in 2008 and 2009. They arrived in Spain in 2013. Conventional electronic cigarette releases doses of nicotine, but through an electronic warming process. This made smokers no longer smoke as such, but called themselves vapeadores. Apart from the minimum doses of nicotine, the electronic cigarette has also been discussed by controversy, as it sometimes contained toxic substances that I am not going to list now. The other device is heated tobacco, which in Spain is called other tobacco products. It is important to put a figure on these two products. The current sale amounts to EUR 11 billion in the world. We are facing an emerging market. Philip Morris comments on these products that is the biggest revolution the company and the sector have experienced in their history. The main tobacco companies are positioning themselves to cope with demand. The four major companies in the sector accumulate investments worth 5200 million in the development of their products and only Philip Morris accumulates an investment worth 25 billion in recent years. The vast majority of sales of heated tobacco are in Japan, while the electronic cigarette market is concentrated in four countries: the United States, the United Kingdom, France and Italy. In a market with great potential, it is estimated that there will be an increase from 11,000 to 17 billion in 2020. To this figure must be added the disparity of rules according to which country. In Japan, heated tobacco is permitted and electronic cigarettes are prohibited, while other countries have the opposite approach, such as the United Kingdom, where electronic cigarettes are being enhanced. There is a debate about these products, as some countries have tried to use them as an aid to dishabitat. At present, there is no consensus. While conventional tobacco combustion is 800 degrees, tobacco heaters operate at 300 degrees or less, but there is no agreement, as the risk potential of heated tobacco is greater than that of electronic cigarettes, but less than that of traditional cigarettes, apart from the fact that this product offers a very similar smoking experience. This leads us to expect the results of studies that are under way to try to reach consensus on these products. As usual, we are between the health of the population and the market. Finally, I would like to say that I was surprised by the Minister's speech. We have a law of 2011, the General Law of Public Health, which is to be launched. We're looking forward to it. And I'm surprised, Minister, your concern about health problems when we have problems as important as obesity. There may be fear of interference with other issues, because they are all interlinked with public health, such as access to work, access to housing or the impoverishment of the population. All this has an interference with public health. That may be the fear of not developing public health. What is clear is that the public health of our population can never improve with a GNP on health education, but by developing the 2011 Act. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u54	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Florez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u55	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the transposition of European Directive 2014/40 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products will finally be completed today. The objective of this European directive is nothing more than to facilitate the smooth functioning of the internal market in tobacco and related products on the basis of a high level of health protection, especially for young people. It is another step forward in fulfilling the European Union's obligations under the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, signed also by Spain. Madam Minister, we are from the last countries to implement this transposition. You have been systematically and unjustifiably failing to meet the deadlines for its implementation with the consequent anticipation of the European Union. They have generated uncertainty and damage to an important economic sector that is also demanding transposition, which is necessary to regulate the sale, supply, consumption and advertising of tobacco products. This transposition is further proof that the fight against the smoking epidemic has not been a priority in recent years, such as the fact that tobacco causes about 52 000 deaths a year, according to estimates from his own ministry and yet no smoking prevention campaigns are being carried out, or the fact that care has been given to those who smoke or that we lack a well-structured tobacco control network. What should have been an opportunity to make substantial improvements in the prevention of smoking in our country has been limited to a mere adaptation of the law to the rules of compulsory compliance, based only on a partial transposition of the directive to avoid sanctions for accumulated delay; a delay, I repeat, unjustified, because since April 2014 you knew what the deadline for transposition was. They thus disregard a scenario of improvements in the prevention and control of smoking that the text itself transposes encourages them to do. Minister, reasons and arguments for undertaking a transposition in due time, in form and with ambition were neither lacking nor lacking. You have mentioned some mortality and morbidity figures in this regard. The second public health impact assessment report of Law 42/2010, referring to the period 2011-2014, corroborates the progress of the first, but states that no substantial changes are observed. It confirms that in this period there is continuity in the decline of smoking, but with decreases lower than previous periods. Prevalence in consumption is still above the European average, and there is a worrying stagnation in both adults and young people and minors. Mortality, which is increasing in men, is increasing for women. In 2015, smoking was the first cause of lost years adjusted for disability, and the morbidity associated with tobacco consumption, which had shown significant declines in 2011, in subsequent years is maintained, pointing out the report itself - and I quote textually - that the differences are smaller and without statistical significance. Do you need more arguments? Because I could go on. [[Applauds]] The evaluation report itself prepared by his ministry, in addition to noting the positive health effects of tobacco laws, concludes that the inclusion of new measures in the multi-component framework of tobacco prevention would promote these benefits and allow further progress in the approach that is still the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in our country, in addition to avoiding it. But his new measures, Minister, serve simply to comply with the file and little more. There is no doubt that substantial changes are needed to reflect scientific progress and market developments and that we must go in parallel with those changes. In short, tobacco products are not an ordinary commodity, and in view of their health effects, the protection of tobacco products must be the subject of priority action, especially with a view to reducing the prevalence of smoking among children. In spite of all this, we will accept, out of pure responsibility, the validation of this royal decree-law, but we would have hoped that the transposition would have been carried out before and with a proposal from his most ambitious ministry. Given the good results and benefits achieved by the adoption of Law 28/2005 on health measures against smoking - one of the most important public health interventions that have been carried out in this country, subsequently reformed and reinforced by Law 42/2010 - we must continue to work. For this reason, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will present initiatives to continue to advance in the prevention and protection of health, and thus also to supplement the passiveness of your ministry and of the government to which you belong. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u56	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Romero Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u57	Thank you, Madam President. As the Minister has already explained in detail, the transposition of Directive 2014/40 of the European Union on the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products and of Delegated Directive 2014/109, establishing the new library of graphic warnings to be used by tobacco products, is completed with the adoption of this standard today. In this royal decree, amendments are made to Law 28/2005, a pioneering rule in Spain that introduced the first measures against smoking, in a policy that today the Government of Spain... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u58	One second, Your Honor. Some have not been in the morning in this session. That's why they don't know what's been said here before. Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u59	... In a policy which the Spanish Government is continuing today to protect public health, in order to minimise the risks associated with the consumption and exposure not only of tobacco but also of new products. The text which is being discussed today complements the transposition of the directive, expands the list of definitions by collecting new ones, such as those relating to refill packs, oral tobacco or cross-border distance sales; prohibits the marketing of oral tobacco, which is highly addictive and harmful to health; prohibits the cross-border sale of nicotine release devices and refill packs; regulates the advertising, promotion and sponsorship of these devices and refill packs; amends the provision relating to the Canary Islands special scheme, adapting it to European Union law, respecting its uniqueness and the predictions of its autonomy status, respecting the same consensus as the original laws, and amends tax legislation by eliminating the possibility that ponds may sell tobacco products that have the status of Community goods to residents in another Member State of the European Union at a distance. Here we have talked about some issues such as the delay in its processing, which is done by royal decree and which is a text of pure transposition. With regard to delay, it is clear that there has been a backlog since Directive 2014/109. The explanatory statement is transparent in this respect. It is also true that an infringement procedure against Spain was initiated in September 2016. But we have to have a lot of nerve, to put it mildly, to come here to blame the government for that delay, because no Spaniard escapes that in May 2016 it was not the People's Group that prevented the formation of the government or the one calling for a second election. [[Applauds]] There were those who did merit even for a few thirds, and here, in concrete measures, in this case of public health, is where one sees the result of the lack of State vision that many suffer. Because of this urgency and delay, all the measures that were pending before the directive, both in terms of consumption and tobacco, have been transposed by the Government, by the Ministry of Health, because in June Royal Decree 579/2017, containing 95 per cent of the directive, was adopted. What was left was to be brought to the Courts today because of the need for legislative changes. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, we are late, we are at the door of a sanction procedure. How can they call for a legislative process in the courts, with the complexity and difficulty of agreements and consensus and the composition of this House? Ladies and gentlemen, it has taken the European Union two and a half years to adopt this directive. Is it simple transposition? Yeah. Spain fulfils its commitments, as do most of the Member States of the European Union, which have faithfully transposed what was agreed in Brussels. What they have here called simple and disrespectfully transposition. On this issue neither the Government nor the People's Group nor the Minister reject the debate, proof of this is that the previous Government, of the People's Party, and in the previous legislature, the Congress of Deputies approved with the consensus of all parliamentary groups, and after agreement with the Interterritorial Health Council of the Autonomous Communities, a pioneering regime on the consumption, sale and advertising of electronic cigarettes, through the Consumer Law, which made our country a pioneer regime in Europe in this regard. These measures were then introduced into this directive. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain has one of the most stringent legal regimes in the European Union, a regime that is exported to neighbouring countries such as France. I therefore ask you to vote in favour. Let us follow the path already initiated by the Government of Spain and follow the consensus achieved by the 2005 and 2010 standards, as well as the policies that have since led to the decline in the prevalence of smoking in Spain, and especially in youth. The latest data show that the prevalence of daily smokers among our adolescents was 8.9% in 2014 - the latest data available - when in 1994 we were around 21%. This is something that we must all welcome, but it is also proof that efforts in regulation, tobacco control and the improvement of information and education bear fruit. Let us all think of future generations of Spaniards. Let us seize the opportunity to improve their health, because many of us did not have the opportunity to have a legal framework, proactive national, autonomous and local governments and social rejection when we were precisely vulnerable. Ladies and gentlemen, let us all follow this path, let us all adopt this text, and let us show our commitment to public health now and let us leave a legacy of consensus in the fight against smoking in Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u60	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u61	We turn to the agenda item on the proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Groups, Confederal de União Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Ciudadanos, de Esquerra Republicana, Vasco y Mixto, to set up a committee to monitor and evaluate the agreements of the State Pact on Gender Violence. [[EAJ-PNV]] There will be no speeches on this item and it will be put to the vote at the end of this sitting.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u62	New item on the agenda and last item on the request of the Committee on Employment and Social Security to grant an extension of eight months of the deadline granted to the subcommittee for the study of the reform of the special scheme for self-employed or self-employed workers for the issue of its report. That request shall also be put to the vote by consent in this case at the end of this sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, the votes will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats, let's start with the vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u63	We begin with the consideration of propositions of law. Proposition of law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, regulator of external university academic practices. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 plus five telematic votes, 332; 166 plus two telematic votes, 168; 132 plus two telematic votes, 134; abstentions, 29 plus one telematic vote, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u64	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]] - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, for the reform of Law 3/2007 of 15 March 2007 on the regulation of the registrar of the mensation concerning sex of persons, to permit the registrar of the mensation concerning sex and the name of transsexual and/or transsexual minors, to amend the requirements laid down in Article 4 in respect of the sex change register, and to enable measures to improve the integration of foreign persons residing in Spain. [[File number 122/000072]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u65	We now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, for the reform of Law 3/2007 of 15 March, which regulates the registration of the reference to sex of persons, to allow the registration of the reference to sex and the name of transsexual and/or transgender minors, to modify the requirements laid down in Article 4 regarding the registration of sex change, and to enable measures to improve the integration of foreign persons residing in Spain. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 328 plus 5 telematics votes, 333; in favour, 200 plus 3 telematics votes, 203; against, 128 plus 2 telematics votes, 130.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u66	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u67	We now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote for the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, urging the Government to support the Barcelona National Supercomputer Centre and the Spanish Supercomputer Network. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Citizens' Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 164 against, 2 abstentions, 162.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u68	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, on the pricing of electricity and the need to adopt a reform of the electricity market. [[File number 162/000306]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u69	Let us move on, ladies and gentlemen, to the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the charging of electricity and the need to address a reform of the electricity market. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, the Citizens Group and the Socialist Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour 195 against 134.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u70	The non-legislative proposal was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to vote on the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the Government's forecasts of the amendment of the expenditure rule applicable to local authorities. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Group of the United People's Party of Europe. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 165 against, 157 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u72	Accordingly, the motion was adopted. - OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, MR. XUCLA, ON THE DEMOCRATIC CRISIS OF THE FUNCTIONING OF JUSTICE IN SPAIN. [[File number 173/000066]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u73	We are now going to vote on the motion for urgent questioning by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà, on the democratic crisis of the functioning of justice in Spain. We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 89 against, 239 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u74	The motion is rejected. - Motion for an urgent interpellation between the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations and the United States of America on the serious need for measures by the Government to ensure effective access to culture. [[File number 173/000067]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u75	We now vote on the motion following urgent questioning by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podem-En Marea on the serious lack of action by the Government to ensure effective access to culture. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, the Joint Group and the Socialist Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 165 against, 130 abstentions, 34.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u76	The motion was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u77	Let us now, ladies and gentlemen, vote for the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. First, Royal Decree-Law 16/2017 of 17 November, laying down safety provisions for the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the marine environment. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 plus 5 telematics votes, 334; in favour, 248 plus 5 telematics votes, 253; against, 1; abstentions, 80.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u78	As a result, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The Royal Decree-Law has been requested to be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 plus 5 telematics votes, 334; 119 plus 3 telematics votes, 122; 209 plus 2 telematics votes, 211; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u79	It will therefore not be dealt with by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 17/2017, OF 17 NOVEMBER, AMENDING LAW 28/2005, OF 26 DECEMBER, OF HEALTH MEASURES FRONT OF TOBACQUISM AND GOVERNING THE SALE, SUBMINISTRATION, CONSUMPTION AND PUBLICITY OF THE PRODUCTS OF TOBACCO, TO TRANSPOSE DIRECTIVE 2014/40/EU OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL OF 3 APRIL 2014. [[File number 130/000023]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u80	We now proceed to vote on Royal Decree-Law 17/2017 of 17 November, amending Law 28/2005 of 26 December on health measures against smoking and regulating the sale, supply, consumption and advertising of tobacco products, to transpose Directive 2014/40 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 plus 5 telematics votes, 334; in favour, 327 plus 5 telematics votes, 332; against, 1; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u81	As a result, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been requested that the Royal Decree-Law be dealt with as a bill by the urgency procedure. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 329 plus 5 telematics votes, 334; in favour, 113 plus 4 telematics votes, 117; against, 216 plus 1 telematics vote, 217.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u82	It will therefore not be dealt with by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u83	Let us now, ladies and gentlemen, vote on the proposal by the Socialist groups, Confederal de União Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Ciudadanos, de Esquerra Republicana, Vasco y Mixto, to set up a Commission to monitor and evaluate the agreements of the State Pact on Gender Violence. [[PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 327 votes in favour, 326 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u84	The establishment of the Commission was therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-30-CD171130.u85	The new item on the agenda is the request for the extension of subcommittees. The request of the Committee on Employment and Social Security to grant an extension of eight months from the deadline granted to the Sub-Commission for the study of the reform of the special scheme for self-employed or self-employed workers, for the issuance of its report, is submitted to the plenary. Can it be understood as approved by consent? [[Consent]] Accordingly, the extension of the deadline for the subcommission was approved. The sitting is adjourned, ladies and gentlemen. It was ten and fifty-five minutes in the morning.
