ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u1	The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure, which was requested by the Government to postpone it and expressed the unanimous favourable opinion of the Board of Spokesmen at its meeting today, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the exclusion from the agenda of this sitting of item 24, corresponding to the Socialist Parliamentary Group's urgent inquiry into the Government's policy on the adoption of measures for the immediate reduction of air pollution and the revision of the energy model. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] Wake up. The exclusion of the reference point is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u2	We now begin, ladies and gentlemen, with the proposal for a law of the Socialist, Organic Parliamentary Group on the protection of citizens' security and repeal of the Organic Law 4/2015 of 30 March on the protection of citizens' security, which will be discussed cumulatively with the proposal for a law of the Basque Parliamentary Group on the reform of the Organic Law of 30 March on the protection of citizens' security. For the presentation of their respective initiatives, the Socialist Group, Mr Trevín Lombán, has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 11 December 2014, the Commission's opinion on the draft Organic Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security was discussed in this Chamber. In that debate, I have already asked the Government to withdraw this law primarily because it curtails rights such as those of assembly, demonstration, strike and information. If this were not enough, this harmful law also violates the right of Spaniards to privacy and effective judicial protection. I warned then that if that law did not withdraw we would fight it to the end. I made sure that we would try to stop it during its processing and if, despite all this, it went ahead, we would seek in the next legislature a broad agreement to repeal it, all without renouncing the corresponding remedy of unconstitutionality. I did, ladies and gentlemen, because a safe society is not necessarily a silent society, and this is precisely what the Executive intended: to gag us with this law. In its first three years, the Rajoy People's Government succeeded in impoverishing the middle and working classes, unleashing scandalous social inequality and a storm of cuts in labour, health, educational rights, dependence and free access to justice. The excuse for the crisis served to destroy everything, so they also dared to resurrect that Ministry of the Interior that proclaimed the street to be theirs and theirs alone. They showed that they did not want critical citizens protesting against this pandemonium of adjustments that the PP was throwing at us. They wanted a law that would automatically turn the active citizen into a punishable defendant in order to pacify us all to the brave. We must also remember that this law was introduced and processed in conjunction with the reform of the Criminal Code and that the relationship between the two agreed that it would enter into force at the same time. Coordination between the two laws was not exhausted. On the one hand, trade unionists began to be prosecuted under the Criminal Code by applying criminal sanctions based on an element that the Constitutional Court had prohibited and that is the configuration of the strike as a factor that increases the penalty, including in the attestations the existence of prior consultation so that the prosecution could charge 315.3 of the Criminal Code. Almost never in democracy had it been done before. It is our wish that it never be done again. On the other hand, sanctions for demonstrations were exacerbated in any form, including in a peaceful manner, and new punishable conduct was included in the laws. This is a way of acting that the European Court of Human Rights defined as causing discouragement in the exercise of fundamental rights. Never before in Spanish democracy was legislation applied so harshly to the dissenter, especially if he was also a trade unionist. Two hundred and sixty trade union representatives have faced or are facing in recent years severe administrative sanctions or sentences with significant prison sentences. The International Labour Organization does not lend credit to what is happening in Spain. None of this made a dent in the Government's decisions. He turned the law into leashes with which he intended to tie the entire citizenship more closely. You will already know that the straps are very much in the taste of this government and its surroundings. It completed the procedures and the Citizens' Security Act came into force thanks to the absolute majority held by the People's Party at the time. It was a parliamentary majority, but not a social majority, since this gallows had 82 % rejection among the population, the same percentage that had opposed Spain's intervention in the Iraq war. With it the Rajoy Government jibarized mercilessly our freedoms and rights, turned freedom of expression into a luxury property because of the disorbited fines it provided for, wanted to take away the freedom of assembly and demonstration by punishing those who participated in these activities without prior communication or extending responsibility to the simple participants, and in case it was little it also charged against freedom of information, kidnapping images to graphic journalists. That law excited them politically but, even before their approval, you, lords of the People's Party, showed that they were leaving. The government delegate in Madrid, Mrs Cifuentes, already before her approval multiplied the fines for meetings and demonstrations by nine times between 2011 and 2012. The rest of the government delegates appointed by the People's Party, less pressured to carry out personal promotion campaigns, only multiplied them by five. They were delighted with that stick-free and temptuous bar that opened the new regulation. They passed the law and the Socialist Group complied with the announcement. On 21 May 2015, together with those of La Izquierda Plural, UPyD and El Mixto, we registered an appeal of unconstitutionality against articles 19.2, 20.2, 36.2, 36.23 and 37.1, in relation to 30.3, 37.3 and 37.7 and the first final provision of that law. The appeal was admitted. On 29 November last year, I again defended in this House a motion by the Socialist Group calling on the Government to repeal this law and to promote a new rule, more respectful of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the Spaniards. It should also ensure guarantees and proportionality in sanctions that effectively harm or undermine citizen security. It was simply a matter of returning to the most obvious democratic principles. It was approved by a large majority. I understand that losing the absolute majority has bothered you. I also understand that they are slow to adapt. That's all understandable. But the sooner you accept, gentlemen of the People's Party, that you are bound to a continuous dialogue, the better for all. Do not choose to assume parliamentary mandates as a last resort. Do not engage in pre-emptive rebellion in the face of the majority decisions of the General Courts, because they will only be able to make their minority and their limited capacity for dialogue more evident. I insist, I know that the absolute majority was more comfortable, but adapt as soon as possible, do not take as provocations what are consequences of a parliamentary situation that they find difficult to assimilate. With this initiative today we want to repeal both the Organic Law 4/2015 of 30 March, called in a contradictory way of protection of citizen security, and the amendments that it included in the Aliens Law to allow the hot returns of immigrants in Ceuta and Melilla. The adoption of this proposal will entail the necessary abolition of the possibility of sanctioning peaceful participants in demonstrations, the sanction for appearing before the parliamentary chambers even if they are not assembled, the sanctions for using images of authorities or members of the State Security Forces and the possibility of seizing such images, the consideration of a violation of the temporary occupation of the public road, personal searches in public places, as conceived by the new law, and other infringements for the lack of respect or consideration of members of the security forces or those which confer on them excessive powers of intervention by displacing judicial guarantees. As is well known, this derogation cannot lead to a legal vacuum in the protection of citizens' security, while at the same time recovering the legislation in force in this area until 2015. The rule, whose existence is necessary in the opinion of my group, regulates and complements the powers or powers of the authorities in order to protect citizens' security in matters such as the manufacture, trade, possession and use of weapons and explosives; public concentrations; personal documentation of nationals and foreigners in Spain, as well as to regulate certain activities of particular interest and responsibility to the State Security Forces and Bodies. We want, ladies and gentlemen, to correct the errors that the current law has introduced in the principles of police action; it is not those of opportunity, effectiveness and efficiency that must govern it but those of legality, suitability and minimal intervention, since the weighting between the need for possible action and the exercise of rights and freedoms demands this. It is necessary to end the confusion introduced by the Law between the concept of citizen security and a constitutional good such as public security, because this confusion - intentional - empowers the Ministry of the Interior to use the police and the Civil Guard bodies in the control of the population rather than primarily to ensure public freedom and security. The Ombudsman herself warned, in one of her latest reports on those affected by the current Law on Citizen Security, that the exercise of a constitutional right could never be subject to punishment. It provided examples of senseless fines for exercising the right to assembly or demonstration or of sanctions that contravened freedom of information. Something goes wrong, ladies and gentlemen, when police officers denounce a woman passing by the Vicente Calderón stadium for carrying a bag with the letters ACAB that ultra groups use as an acronym for words in English All police officers are bastards. However, in the bag it could be read that this acronym corresponded, in this case, to all cats are beautiful. This fine perfectly portrays the persecutory mania that the PP has towards any citizen who, in his terrible obsession, considers dissenting. This law is pure authoritarian paranoia; that is why it must be repealed now. [[Applauds]] We cannot continue to punish our civilian and police guards with the ungrateful obligation to be the gag that this Government wants us to put in. We have to rescue them from the return to a past they had overcome with brilliance. And don't think I'm overreacting. A media outlet as prestigious as the New York Times published: The New Spanish gag law is a worrying setback to the dark days of the Franco regime. For the New York newspaper, the purpose of this law was to help the ruling party maintain power by discouraging anti-authority protests. Our intention, ladies and gentlemen, as stated in the explanatory statement itself, is that the proposal for a law presented today by the Socialist Group will serve as a basis for this House, through the amendments made by the various parliamentary groups, to draft a new law which must be respectful of the fundamental rights and freedoms provided for in the Constitution. In addition, we would like it to emerge from a broad agreement between the parliamentary groups that supported the repeal of the law, of which they abstained and of which they support the Government, even though they voted against it. To that group, to the Popular, I want to address myself especially. Forget the Law gags, it's past; it's always been, because from the beginning that law unleashed a suspected stinking grudge, but let's forget it. The Law gags, I insist, is past; let go of that tie; we will do everything in our hand to agree this proposition of law. You too should add to your efforts to seek consensus. We are looking for a new law on citizen security that respects the fundamental rights and freedoms provided for in the Constitution, and I am sure that all parliamentary groups can participate in this. It does not therefore have the proposition that today I defend the vocation of final text but of starting point for the elaboration of a new Law on Citizens' Security. The Socialist Group is aware that it will be amended and that aspects such as the treatment of offences which have been excluded from the Criminal Code must necessarily be considered in its handling, thereby jeopardizing its sanction. However, the proposal already introduces some necessary updates, such as the provision of electronic DNI; the inclusion of new infringing behaviours; the projection of light beams on pilots or drivers that can dazzle them and cause accidents; intrusion into infrastructure or basic service facilities when they cause serious interference; greater guarantees in relation to the identification of persons; maximum time; provision of justifications; reduction of the fine by 50% in the event that no allegations are made to the sanction proposal; references to laws that have come to repeal other laws contained in the original law, such as the Law on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector or the Law against Violence, Racism, Xenophobia and Intolerance in Sport; the updating of the designations of the competent authorities and the inclusion of those corresponding to the autonomous communities with security competences. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the proposal put forward by the PNV, although its scope is smaller than that of my group, since it only proposes a reform of the law in force and not its repeal as I am presenting to you, I must stress its explanatory statement as an impeccable exercise of how a legal rule regulating limits on fundamental rights should be brought closer to the subject matter and the principles setting out the constitutional limits on fundamental rights, as well as the establishment of infringements and corresponding sanctions. Not as long as they are spelled out in specific projects, they conform to the principles set out. The parliamentary procedure will make it possible to ascertain the coincidences between the two, especially as regards the elimination as a violation of certain conducts of the current law. It will be necessary to try to reach points of agreement on amendments that we do not fully share, such as those relating to regulation and amendments to the right of assembly. Regardless of all this, I would like to advance my group's vote in favour of taking into account the proposal by the Basque Group, PNV, and, at the same time, I would ask the House for the same sense of vote for our proposal. It is time to get rid of this gloom that shames our democracy. If the House votes in favour of our proposal, ladies and gentlemen, it will mostly be taking the first step to restore to the Spaniards the freedoms that the People's Government stole from them with its Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u4	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u5	Thank you very much, President. He heard a few days ago a psychologist say that much of our existence was summed up in whether or not we had confidence in life, in the future, or in people. Today we have an opportunity to make an exercise of confidence towards the future, referring to the Law on Citizen Security and its amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the current Law on Citizen Security, which replaced Organic Law 1/1992 and coincided with one of the reforms of the Criminal Code, was placed in what has come to be called the criminal law of danger, or mistrust as I would call it. From the axioms of this right security becomes a priority category in criminal policy, as a good that the State and the public authorities must defend with all means and instruments at their disposal. As a result, on the one hand, preventive action is intensified not only of the crime, but also of administrative offences and, on the other hand, there is a marked increase in violations of citizen security. Regarding the crime, see what the prosecutor's memory said in 2015 about the criminal reforms of the previous year: Anti-terrorism policy, based on a preventive response, is likely to require some additional sacrifices, but the judicial system must be careful to apply some criminal types that have been severely criticized as part of an excessively criminalizing and damaging strategy for citizens' rights and freedoms. All this without undermining the effectiveness of the punitive action of the State. End of date. More specifically and with regard to citizen security, it is in the State where citizens enjoy a situation of tranquillity and stability that allows them to exercise freely and responsibly the rights and freedoms constitutionally recognized. Citizen security is a component of public security, although it does not exhaust it as it encompasses the generic protection of people and goods, along with the maintenance of citizen security. It is also a requirement for the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms. Freedom and security are therefore a necessary link for the proper functioning of an advanced democratic society. In this way, security is an instrument at the service of the guarantee of rights and freedoms and not an end in itself; citizen security is a condition and not a condition for the exercise of rights and freedoms, since its mission is to facilitate them. For this reason, the Constitutional Court enshrines the primacy of freedom over police effectiveness when it says: The State duty to effectively prosecute the crime, the legitimacy of which is unquestionable, cannot, however, be imposed at the expense of fundamental rights and freedoms. That is why the General Council of the Judiciary says: The action of the public authorities in the field of citizen security is aimed at removing obstacles that prevent the free exercise and enjoyment of rights and freedoms and the tranquillity for enjoyment when accompanied - the obstacles, he says - by a certain degree of violence, without the mere violation of a norm or the non-violent attack being able to justify an intervention activity affecting citizens' rights. Thus, the principle of proportionality and legality are the two guides or canons to prosecute the goodness of any incidence or limitation in the exercise of citizens' freedoms for security reasons. It is this principle of proportionality that is the most relevant legal manifestation of the idea between the just balance between freedom and security, and that the first must take precedence over the second - to police efficiency - through the principle of interpretation favourable to the exercise of fundamental rights and duties. This requirement and this rebalancing between freedom and security has been one of the guides that has inspired the proposed law presented by the Basque Parliamentary Group and is manifested, among other things, in a redefinition of the intervention activity, in the rights of those transferred to police units for their identification, in the controls on the public road, in the bodily registers on the public road, in the suppression of the hidden sanction to expressions of the right to strike as are demonstrations and meetings in situations of collective conflict in the facilities where basic services are provided. The right to freedom of expression and information is also taken into account by our proposed law with the removal of a limitation that particularly affects the media in their efforts to capture images linked to freedom of information. This limitation, to which the power of the agents of the authority, the police, the preventive apprehension of the cameras and other instruments of recording images is added, constitutes, in our view, a general and preventive prohibition on the active and passive freedom of information subject to authorization, in breach of the principles of proportionality and weighting which the Constitutional Court has been demanding to limit the right to information; the right to accurate information which has an institutional character as facilitator and enabler of the same democratic State and whose limitation has to, with the aforementioned limitations, come to protect, where appropriate, other fundamental rights such as the right to honour, the image itself, privacy and the protection of personal data, among others. The rights of demonstration and assembly are also the subject of the proposed law, which we submit on the understanding that they are negatively affected by the Citizens' Security Act. On the one hand, it is proposed that the authorship of offences committed against good order in meetings and demonstrations in public transit places, whether communicated or not, should fall on its organisers or promoters, but only when, during the development of those offences and with the means at their disposal, they have failed to comply with the obligation to prevent and, where appropriate, prevent the alteration of citizens' security. It is only to be responsible for own conduct in accordance with the principle of guilt and personality of the offence. It is not possible that for reasons of ease of proof or difficulty of the declaration of authorship a joint or other liability is imputed as this would run counter to the principle of taxation and culpability. The definition of a meeting is also amended to include not only the concerted participation of persons but also that of vehicles so that they have the same rights and obligations as persons because there was a legal vacuum that affected them. It also takes into account spontaneous and peaceful meetings and demonstrations on the occasion of events or situations the response of the public does not admit delays, at the expense of being obsolete, provided that they do not disturb the security of the citizen or do so lightly and for which no prior communication will be required. Think, for example, of a peaceful and spontaneous meeting occupying a place of public transit after a terrorist attack in the face of a diplomatic legacy of the country that has suffered it. This responds to a broad social demand for such conduct to have no sanction and to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. Finally, and also in response to the rights of demonstration and assembly, the disruption of citizens' security in front of the legislative chambers has a specific and sufficient criminal response when they are gathered; and, if not, that disruption is subsumed in the general criminal type of public disorder. On the other hand, the rights recognized internationally and ratified by the Spanish State of persons seeking refuge and asylum are also the subject of our attention in the initiative we are presenting. We therefore propose that within three months of the entry into force of this law, the Government should make the necessary arrangements for the rejection at borders to be carried out in accordance with international human rights and international protection law. And if that three-month period is passed without the Government having enacted such legislation and until it is adopted, no further actions of rejection at the border, as authorized in the first paragraph of the tenth additional provision of the Organic Aliens Act, may be carried out. The proposal we are making also complies with the continuing demands of international human rights organizations. With regard to the sanctioning regime, we should highlight and recall what we had already said regarding the criminal law of danger; and also recall the mutation that occurred in 2014 with the amendment of the Criminal Code and the simultaneous adoption of this Law on Citizen Security, which meant that what was previously criminal offences would become administrative offences, which has had important consequences for citizens to remember. The penalty is no longer imposed by a judicial body, but by the Administration, which will be responsible for assessing the conduct without prejudice to the possibility of review before the courts. For the judicial review of the administrative sanction, until months ago it was necessary to pay court fees that did not exist in criminal proceedings. In the administrative sanction procedure, statements made by agents making complaints enjoy the evidentiary value of the facts reported, while in the criminal procedure they have the value of simple witness statements. The criminal fine is imposed taking into account the economic capacity of the defendant while the administrative fine is taken in the least favourable way to the principle of proportionality in relation to equality. The administrative final sanction shall be entered in a register while the criminal conviction for failure was not subject to registration in any register. And the payment of administrative fines must be made generally when they are imposed by the Administration, without waiting for the judicial decision if they are appealed, unlike criminal fines, which are effective only when a final criminal sentence has been handed down. Other consequences of this punitive right, of the law of mistrust, are the overlapping of criminal offences with administrative offences, the unbalanced relationship between the gravity of the act and the need for a punitive response, the inadequate treatment of the difference between the offence and the administrative offence and its consequences, the inadequate consideration of the exclusion of anti-legality or of the grounds for justification, and of the modification of the offender's guilt and economic circumstances. Thus, the unbalanced relationship in the Law on Citizen Security between the gravity of the act and the need for the punitive response is found in that many of the violations of the Law on Citizen Security overlap with criminal offences of the Criminal Code, to the point that many offences include the "if they do not constitute an offence", and yet the administrative sanction, the fines, are much stronger than the penal ones. The principle of proportionality requires, within the punitive power of the State, that criminal offences be more reprimanded than administrative offences. Therefore, the proposal for a law that we are presenting introduces a new paragraph 1 bis to article 39 by which the fines laid down in the Law on Citizens' Security for administrative offences established by it, when they do not constitute a criminal offence, cannot be higher than the lower one corresponding to the criminal offence. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, it is also proposed to abolish a number of offences which should only be criminally reprimanded, such as acts that infringe on freedom and sexual compensation, or because they already have a sufficient criminal response, or there is no substantial difference with criminal types, such as disruption of sports or cultural shows, or religious professions; public disorder; the use of uniforms, badges or decorations that could generate deception; conduct related to the production, consumption and trafficking of drugs; damage and displeasure of public or private goods, to name but a few. The overlap between the offence and the administrative offence that is intensely committed in the Law on Citizen Security obliges the introduction of the principle of non bis in idem in detail so that a person cannot be punished twice or more for the same act and on the same basis or legal protection, whether these administrative sanctions and penalties or administrative sanctions, whether imposed in successive proceedings or imposed in the same procedure. To this end, a new paragraph 1a is inserted in Article 45 to specify what is to be understood as a basic identity. The Law on Citizen Security, through the proposal for a law, also supports the poor reception in those causes of exclusion from anti-legality or causes of justification of conduct, especially error, and more finite criteria on the guilt of the offender, including only at present aggravating and non-attenuating circumstances, and the weighting of all of them together in the individualization of the sentence. In order to avoid unjust sanctions, the purpose of preventing the punitive response must take better account of the offender's economic capacity to determine the sanction, even though it is not related to the gravity of the act or guilt, in a manner similar to that of the Criminal Code, and it is also proposed as a means of adapting the sanction to the offender's economic capacity the fractionation of the offence, the suspension of the execution and, where appropriate, the reduction. In short, ladies and gentlemen, and I am finalising this, I believe that we have an opportunity to reformulate a new citizen security text with more support from parliamentary groups than the ones with which the law currently in force was in its day. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u6	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. In view of these considerations that we are discussing together, I will vote against the socialist initiative that Mr Trevín has defended because it is limited to applying the paper crusher, and I will vote in favour of the reformist proposal explained by Mr Legarda of the Basque Group, because, unlike the previous one, if it is adopted, it would make it possible to move towards necessary amendments to the Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security, but without reaching the end of the derogation without alternative. Two years ago, both my predecessor in this House and myself in the Senate rejected this organic law during his parliamentary peril. It is a bad law, very unpopular and countercurrent, which, in our opinion, contains several articles with unconstitutionality. Its handling was so embarrassing that it is enough to remember that in its passage through the plenary session of the High Chamber it was not even presented by its promoter, although it has a substantial regulatory organic nature of fundamental rights of citizens. Some of the articles of the law, which have been in force for nine months and have been questioned even by the institution of the Ombudsman, which came to suggest that certain governmental sanctions should not be applied and warned of their possible unconstitutionality. In fact, this same month of March, a week before the case came to trial, the Ministry of the Interior annulled motu proprio the first sanction imposed on a journalist under this controversial law. Ladies and gentlemen, this rectification can be interpreted as a product of the new Minister of the Interior and the team he has been working with for only three and a half months; that is, as a good gesture by the new Government to apply with reasonable criteria the effective guarantee of the fundamental rights and freedoms recognized in our Constitution. At the Forum we appeal to Minister Zoido's determined and recognized dialogue vocation, his offer of open hand and his willingness to sit down and talk in order to reach agreements to reform a law that undoubtedly requires changes in his text. In short, we believe that the consideration put forward by the Basque Group is an opportunity to amend a controversial legislative text and that its reform is the result of the greatest possible consensus, which seems to us to be a complicated goal in terms of the public disputes that have already occurred between the two majority opposition parties in their crazy career of flagging the repeal of this law. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u8	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Group, Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u9	Thank you, Madam President. My colleague Isidro said this: although we are discussing the two initiatives together, it is obviously not the same thing to repeal as to reform, although it is true that in the two proposals there is a quite remarkable dramatization exercise. Of course, in our view, they exaggerate because neither the casuistry nor the silence of the changes they propose finally justify these initiatives; rather, it seems that the ultimate reason for these proposals was the times they announced they were going to do so, simply. It is you who have set up earphones that prevent you from seeing or distinguishing without prejudice on the casuistics of this law, the time it takes in force, the effectiveness of the law itself, the limits of the exercise of certain rights, how to guarantee security when those rights are exercised abusively or even violently. I believe that it has even merit not having given in this House a single example of infringement of rights under this rule, I certainly congratulate you on that. But if your strategy, gentlemen of the PSOE, is to approach Podemos or subtract dialectic space from Podemos, it is legitimate, but I think it would be a mistake, and it would not lead to anything good for the PSOE or for society or for coexistence, security or freedom. In this binomial, as the PNV spokesman said, between freedom and security, we are betting on balance and proportion; we are going to be very careful in dealing with the changes that arise, so that we can all defend the principles that establish his proposal: the principle non bis in idem, responsibility, proportion, minimal intervention and not, as some might claim, establish a series of changes, labels or approve what the PP does not like, that certainly does not seem to us to be any argument to correct. Therefore, from our point of view, there is no reality that obliges a derogation; therefore, it is not necessary. Secondly, the text proposed by the Socialist Party is, of course, very deficient and will create more problems than it can solve. And, third, in the face of a closed-eyed repeal and the processing of a reform, of course on reform can be discussed. Therefore, we will study the changes that are proposed without a prioriism and defend that regulation that we believe is more useful to make possible this binomial security-freedom, avoiding excesses, maximalisms, labels and, of course, so much and so much overperformance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u10	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. There is a literary genre or subgenre, as you can see, which is dystopic fiction, the one that starts from the basis that there is a society that promises happiness, but systematically causes its citizens to suffer. And there's a play, the most paradigmatic in dystopic fiction, which is 1984 by George Orwell. From Euskal Herria Bildu we cannot avoid thinking about that book and thinking about that genre which, unfortunately, is being overcome by reality with debates like this, debates that have to do with the existence of a law such as the Law gag, which systematically punishes citizens by deceiving and telling them that they do it for their sake, that they do it for their safety, when what they do is to cut their freedoms and their rights. From that 1984 book, some have come to theorize that there is an idea of Orwellian society, that society where information is manipulated and mass surveillance and political and social repression is practiced. And if that maxim is true, it is easy to remember the puppeteers, the tweeters, the different Spider operations, the journalists who are hampered by their work, their work by covering acts on the street, the workers who are threatened by measures of this Law gag and hundreds and hundreds of people from many collectives in this society. That is something that at Euskal Herria we knew as the ZEN plan and which has now, it seems, spread to the whole state. We are told that we want to protect citizens, but who protects citizens of a State that systematically tramples on their rights and freedoms? Under the binomial they talk about security and freedom, what is done is trampling on freedom in the name of security. It was also done by the Corcuera Law, which we do not want, and it is also done by those here who advocate that this law should be amended, but at the same time, as in the Basque Autonomous Community, it imposes 8,000 fines in twenty months under the mandate of their own police. And I end up with a brief memory of a person who has left us. Tiophaidh ar there. Agur eta ohore Martin McGuinness. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u12	For the Joint Group too, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. A few months ago, my two twin daughters were going to the presentation of a book by an uncle of theirs. I've got a daughter who's got some very long streaks and the other one's not, it's more conventional. When they were passing through the town hall square, a policeman went to my daughter who had rastas, asked her for identification, asked her to open the bag and asked her if she was carrying stones, stabbing objects or white weapons. The other daughter didn't say anything at all. Today there is a tweet from a colleague of this Parliament, Rita Bosaho, who says exactly: That I stop the police to ask for the documentation and give me three thousand laps to my DNI and ask me where you are from. He asks where it's from because it's obviously not white. These are close cases that have led to a law that was made to expand police powers, to register protesters, to intimidate them, to impose astronomical fines on groups that protest, for example, the PAH, to protesters who protest against abuses and corruption, who came to propose fines of up to €600,000, which can mortgage a person's life forever; a punitive, punitive, disproportionate, abusive law; a law in the image and likeness of a politician and an ultra-conservative party; a law that confuses security with repression, freedom with punishment; a law that seeks to invisible social unrest. A law on citizen security should serve to protect the fundamental rights of people, so that citizens feel free and secure. Today, at last, it begins its repeal - and I finish - although incomplete because neither of the two texts contains a regulation guaranteeing fundamental rights. We will be voting on the procedure so that we can introduce, discuss the amendments of civil society, of social organisations, so that a real debate can be opened on the notion of citizen security and the defence of fundamental rights. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u14	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u15	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Surely, successfully solving the binomial freedom-security, controlling the exact measure for each of the things is one of the great challenges that advanced democracies face. In fact, there is none that has solved this issue without discomfort, without excesses, without lack of freedom or without lack of security. That is why a law like this cannot be set up if it is not with broad consensus, if it is not with a broad parliamentary but also citizen's will to build a common space in which we can all live together and move in complete freedom. The first mistake this House made was to abuse the absolute majority to pass a law on citizen security on which there was no consensus not only in the House, but also in the streets, in the organizations, in the autonomy and in the state's trade unions and police forces. That is why what is happening to us today is that when we change the picture of this Parliament, we change the parameters by which we govern ourselves in terms of security and freedom. We are going to facilitate the consideration of the two initiatives that we are discussing together today because we undoubtedly rely on a less interpretable law, on a law without excessive sanctions, on a law that does not interfere with autonomous competences; in short, on a law that does not regard the citizen as a habitual suspect, but as an ally to build a more just, freer and safer society for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Rufián Romero has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today is one of those days to be as clear and direct as possible, one of those days you expect when you get into this politics thing. Today we try to repeal one of the biggest scams that has perpetrated that machine that wins elections, reactionary, called the People's Party; a repeal proposed by the PSOE in a bouquet of dignity that could have already had twenty-five years ago with his colleague José Luis the experiments are done at home with gaseous Corcuera and his Law of kick in the door, before the law Jorge this the prosecutor's office fines you Fernández Díaz. In other words, the Organic Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security or the Law on gags. And what is the Law gag? I'll try to be very clear by exposing thirteen points, thirteen cases. One, this law is to allow the bus of a band that says that some have penis and others have vulva, but that above all it says that they have no shame, to park in front of an Alcobendas institute and, instead, to pursue protesters for the right to housing in front of the doors of this Congress. This is this law. Two, this law is to allow confessional fascists to threaten journalists with impunity and publicly and to persecute those same journalists when they photograph cops beating up activists. Three, this law is to allow officially homophone mayors - but who win elections, it is worth remembering - to denigrate entire collectives on TVs and to persecute kids who move puppets in squares. By the way, there are puppeteers in this country who have spent more time in prison than one Urdangarin. Maybe you should make him look at it. [[Applauds]] Four, this law is to allow the Francisco Franco and Falange Española Foundation to honor their beasts in their covens and, instead, to chase tweeters for making jokes about those same beasts. I suppose, by the way, that the editors of Puig Antich's vile, death, garrote sentence have never given explanations in front of a judge because they neither have Twitter nor are rapists. [[Applauds]] Five, this law is to allow faces to the sun, arms up and chickens waving in pursuit of the unity of the homeland, but it is also to pursue viscas Catalunya, goras Euskal Herria askatuta, stellated and urns in pursuit of a republic. Six, this law is to allow rich people with reddish bracelets on their wrists and envelopes with black money and black cards in their pocket to sit on board boards according to which institutions, but it is also to chase balls and concertinas to poor people who swim and walk. The enemy arrives in a limo, not a patera. Seven, this law is to allow General Mola to be honored in acts and to ignore Marcos Ana in institutions. Eight, this law is to allow you to break hard disks in party seats and chase eggs in speeches. Nine, this law is to allow an autonomous president to compare an urn with a gun and instead pursue rappers for comparing kings with scoundrels in songs. Ten, this law is to allow a radio announcer to ask for tanks and occupations in Catalonia and to prosecute a citizen to ask for a roof and to cry out in front of a city hall. Eleven, this law is to allow the media to manipulate and slander on pay and to prosecute workers who defend such wages decently. Twelve, this law is to allow Fernández Díaz and his wretched lackeys to occupy institutions after plotting against a people and, instead, to persecute citizens for calling a colleague to civilian guards. Thirteen, this law is to allow Pedro Cuevas to take pride in stabbing Guillem Aguló during Operation Panzer and, instead, to persecute Comrade Andrés Bódalo for being proud to be a newspaperman, a republican and a leftist during so many acts. [[Applauds]] Long live Andalucia free! In short, this law allows the scoundrels to be so emboldened and the decent so cowardly that, once again, they can count on us for all those just struggles and causes, wherever they are. All we ask from the Republican Left is reciprocity. I hope I've been clear enough. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u18	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard this evening on several occasions that this is a combination of security and freedom. Don't get confused, there is no binomial; this only goes to freedom, to individual freedoms, to the most important thing we all have, to our individual freedoms. Freedom is security, ladies and gentlemen; freedom is security. [[Applauds]] Just two days ago, some members of this House were in Cadiz celebrating the 205th anniversary of the text that for the first time recorded the freedoms and rights of Spanish citizens. In its article 4, the Constitution of 1812 already contains - and I quote -: The nation is obliged to preserve and protect by wise and just laws the civil freedom, property and other legitimate rights of all individuals who make up it. Likewise, the Constitution of Cadiz clearly pointed out the limitations of power, limitations which could not deprive any individual of his liberty or impose any penalty on him. And those on behalf of the Government would be responsible to the nation and punished as prisoners of attack on individual freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, that Constitution - our Constitution of 1812 - gave the Courts the power to protect the political freedom of the printing press. Ladies and gentlemen, two hundred and five years later it seems that in these courts there are people who have not yet taken note of that. [[Applauds]] Today in this House we are discussing two proposals relating to this Organic Law on Citizen Security that we have already commented on, a law that has, it is true, been controversial on the suspicion that it could assign arbitrary powers to the authorities in part of its articulation and, above all - let us not forget - because some of its precepts are for this reason appealed to the Constitutional Court. Just as the Constitution of Cadiz obliged the Courts to monitor and protect the freedoms of citizens, and in particular that freedom of printing and expression, those who today occupy these seats have one of our main obligations to protect those freedoms and rights. The lordships of the conservative party sometimes seem to forget, perhaps because many of you come from a political tradition that has always looked at liberalism with suspicion. Conservatives, don't be afraid of freedom. We defend the separation of powers, I understand that as well as you but surely not in the same way. We do not want the government to tell politicians what we have to do or what we can do. We like the judges to tell us, we want the judges to tell us - and not a person from the Administration - what we can do, to apply the sanctions. If the law is breached, for that is the law, for that are the judges, who are the only ones who can interpret it; not the State Administration, which you have controlled. [[Applauds]] Now, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, there are times when you have a detracting desire that rather seems to seek journalistic headlines than effective protection of civil liberties. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, as you will recall, in our failed investment pact we concluded an agreement in which we committed ourselves to revising the current Law on Citizens' Security; not to repeal it, to revise it. As the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group have repeated on numerous occasions, the repeal of a law as important as the one before us would create a huge legal vacuum in an area as important as the security of all our citizens. You bet to cover that void by returning to ghosts of the past, as is the Corcuera Law, called - I remind you - the law of kick in the door. Ladies and gentlemen, we like to look to the future, never to the past, never to go back. How eager to always turn back; to repeal some things in order to return to others just as bad as those which these lords have put. Same as bad, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the Government, even the Ombudsman is concerned about some assumptions in the implementation of this law. In the 2015 report, the Ombudsman stressed the concern about some of the rights and freedoms that could come into conflict with law enforcement, in particular those related to body searches on the street, the exercise of fundamental rights of assembly and demonstration, as well as freedom of expression. But in the last report, which was published only a month ago, the Ombudsman reminded them of the follow-up she is taking on the interpretation of this law by government delegations and what revocationary suggestions she has made in the face of certain sanctions protected by law, in particular the cases in which there is a connection between the law and fundamental rights, such as freedom of information and the right to assembly or demonstration. That is where the Citizens' Group, the liberal group of this Congress, considers it necessary to review all groups together, a review that guarantees the security of Spanish citizens as well as their rights and freedoms. The Minister of the Interior himself - which is a pity that again, on such an important subject as this, he is not even present in this debate - acknowledged the need to revise some of the precepts of this law. He acknowledged this in his first appearance before the Commission. And not only that, he undertook with all parliamentary groups to set up a working group to study how we could amend the current Law on Citizen Security. They have done nothing, gentlemen of the People's Party; they have done nothing, Minister, gentlemen of the Government. Excuse me, but there's no one, gentlemen of the government. Gentlemen of the Government, you have done nothing; as always, you are dragging your feet, letting the Socialist Party gentlemen bring you a bill to repeal your law. It's your fault, you haven't worked. One cannot come to Congress to pretend to apply vetoes and to draw reforms by royal decree. You have to come to work for real. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we would really like to work to reach the maximum consensus and eliminate those precepts that might clash with the constitutionality of this rule. I would like to inform you that our parliamentary group is going to abstain from the proposal for a law tabled by the Socialist Group because it seems to us - I have already said - that repealing one thing in order to return to a worse one makes no sense at all. It is true, and we recognize, that this must be changed, I think it has become clear during the exhibition. We will vote in favour of the proposal by the Basque Parliamentary Group because we would like to amend many of the things we have commented on here and some of the very articles that the Basque Parliamentary Group puts forward in this proposal. I think that should be the debate we have. It seems a lie that it has to be another parliamentary group other than the Government to bring to the House the possibility of genuinely exercising a consensus on something as fundamental as the law that manages and restricts the rights of the citizens themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, let us bet on a better law, let us be able to make a law more respectful of the fundamental rights and freedoms of our Magna Charter and to guarantee the safety of our citizens. Above all, let us dialogue with sanctity and serenity, without demagoguery, Mr Rufián, striving to reach a sensible agreement that can be a real starting point for a better law on citizen security for all, but above all a law on freedoms, to guarantee the freedoms of all citizens. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u20	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u21	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. In this democracy we may not know very well where we are going, but some do know very well where we come from. What happy eighties of absolute majority, of intoxication of power, until José Luis arrived and said: we are already in institutions, the street is already left us, that we were already there a while ago. He made the law of kick at the door, the law that carries his last name, the Corcuera Law, and then resigned when the Constitutional Court told him that with this kick at the door we had perhaps passed. In this case, the order of the factors alters the product, because if it had resigned earlier we would surely have saved ourselves some qualifications that made the doctrine at that time on this Law of Citizen Security, which was made on the pretext of regulating the public space, but which, in fact, what it did was limit the possibilities that citizens had at that time and, above all - at that time, the unions already denounced it - the right to strike and these minutiae that occurred in Spain at that time. Thus, dangerous revolutionaries such as Judge Perfecto Andrés Ibáñez already said in 1991 that this was going to affect the principles of legality, the presumption of innocence, the minimum intervention, the failure of the approximation of the sanctioning right to criminal law. Finally, these minutiae that some scholars in law commit themselves to make manifest and relevant. So when the People's Party came to power in 1996 it did not need to change any of this. And so it is that most of the things and sanctions that have been done until very recently have been done on the basis of the Corcuera Law. A gentleman like Aznar, who - as everyone knows - very much likes public demonstrations and citizens' expressions, never intended to change this law that José Luis, with all his magnanimity, had bequeathed to him. What happens is that time passes and some circumstances also change. Among those circumstances, what changed was that the crisis came and with it the cuts came; with the cuts came the bankruptcy of the welfare state and this war that some rich people were winning over some poor people; and some poor people were outraged and went out on the street. Therefore, there was a very clear context. To show a button, the 15-M, on 15 May 2011; the police charge of 17 August against Europa Laica; the Valencian Spring of February 2012; the call of Rodea to Congress of September 2012; the general strike of 14 November; the tide of 23 December. Approximate things that made then Minister Fernández Díaz appear on the ABC and claim that the Criminal Code and the Citizens' Security Act would be amended. Because here we are not talking about the law of gags, we are talking about the laws of gags; we are talking not about a single law of citizen security but about a whole legal framework that integrates the Penal Code, especially as regards the right to strike but also in the expansion of all crimes of terrorism and all crimes of opinion. And if not, let them tell Strawberry, let them tell Valtonyc or the seven people who two weeks ago were being prosecuted at the National Court in this regard. This was the political context and so it was. Was there someone who warned you? Yes, the unions already said in 2003 that this was going to affect decisively the fundamental rights of assembly, demonstration, freedom of expression and the right to strike. But, of course, these are the red guards. Perhaps we would have to go to a United Nations group of human rights experts on 23 February 2015 who also said that the law violates the very essence of the right to demonstration and that it would not be possible to allow hot returns to their country of economic migrants because this posed the risk of being subjected to torture and other forms of ill-treatment in contradiction with the provisions of international law. Minucias, of course. Also Greenpeace, the General Council of Spanish Law and the Ombudsman. Some have already come forward. The most important thing is the consequences this has had for the citizens, and this is very clear. In the first six months of the implementation of the Law, there were 6,217 sanctions, most of them for disrespect to the authority that were absolutely raised, with an average of 29.4 per day. These are some examples, for not including Mr. Salvador - who is certainly attentive - some others concerning freedom of information. For example, the photographer who was asked by the camera to report an accident at work; the journalist from Argía who reported a police operation; the journalist from Catalunya Ràdio, Mercè Alcocer, who jumped the cord to go ask some things to the Pujol, without only information interest, or another series of fines. It is clear that there is widespread political criticism and clear consequences on the part of citizens, and it is also clear that we all agree that this excess should not be allowed. However, the excess that the Law made up does not make the Corcuera Law good, in any way. Looking back is an exercise of pure melancholy. Here are two proposals for law. We can agree on some improvements but the interesting thing is that we can tell you what we could do with a positive approach. How can we do that? Bite laws are an authoritarian response to a situation of social insurgency. Since you, with your abstention, did not want to make any other kind of government that generates any other kind of social policies, at least let us alleviate the symptoms of this repression. The first thing is not to get confused, let's go to the beginning. You talk about citizen peace or public peace, but these are indeterminate legal concepts that all you do is secure the streets to those who are always, the strongest, and who usually go with helmets and fuck. The sanctioning types of the law are clearly disproportionate and we will have to fix it. What do we have to do with the police? Decommission all identification and detention functions. There are no intermediate spaces between detention and freedom, guarantees must be guaranteed to citizens, and this, in the laws that are presented, is not sufficiently clear. We all know that it is one thing that puts the text of the law and another thing that happens on the street, where any slightest respite leaves way for a situation of arbitrariness in favour of the strongest, and the strongest is not the citizen who manifests himself, it is the authority, the public order that prohibits him from exercising his fundamental rights. I know that you, with good will, will be able to assume that. It is much more doubtful that the People's Party can assume this, when the patriotic police that they themselves set up and that, as we have known, today is dedicated to threatening journalists, in this case of the public newspaper, to bringing to light certain information. If we get to this point, it is much more difficult for the People's Party to come to terms with other points that seem much less important, as citizens who have no voice or vote but who are outraged and have no other kind of defence than going on the street. Access to the public service of private security companies should be prevented. You have had enough of talking about the perimeter security of prisons and have not included it. All offences with names and surnames, which affect fundamental rights, should be withdrawn. We will have to re-establish the principle of legality, we will have to establish restorative justice and mediate police violations, and, above all, we will have to prevent hot returns and all those police actions that are against the right of asylum because we are violating international standards in this area. We will vote in favour, we will not do to you what you did to us with the Montoro Law, which you said was insufficient and a mere patch. We consider that yours is also a photocopy and a mere patch but we are not going to do it. In the dreams of the People's Party it is that we do not agree and that this continues. We'll have to negotiate, do things. There are our principles, I just listed them. We will talk, but we will not give a blank check, we will not play with the fundamental rights of citizens and we will not allow people who only have the voice, the word and, many times, the body to say on the street what they think and feel without any other power, to see violated the only capacity they have. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u22	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Martín-Toledano Suárez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are bringing back to debate the Organic Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security, a recurrent and manipulated debate that arises on false premises. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that this law represents a regression of citizens' rights; on the contrary, the current law is more secure than the previous one, and that has been recognized by some political parties who are quite opposed to the People's Group. In order to defend this position, I refer to the statement made by the Council of State in the handling of the draft law, which in its mandatory report recognized that this draft law has a prudent weighting and counterweight between the values of freedom and security, just what should be requested of a law on citizen security. Attacks on this law have been based on purely political criteria of wear and tear, with partisan manual arguments stating that their approval would prevent the right of demonstration. Haven't there been any demonstrations since the passing of the law, ladies and gentlemen? It has also been said that it would be impossible to protest before Congress, and at the investiture he protested before Congress. It was also said that images of demonstrations would be banned, and I have seen them on television. It was also stated that massive street checks would be carried out, something I have not seen. And that citizens would be screened indiscriminately and arbitrarily taken to the police station. None of this has happened, ladies and gentlemen. That is, what has been intended to preach is that our legislation in practice would lead to the persecution of the dissident, and that is not true. That would place us within the parameters of undemocratic countries such as Venezuela, Cuba or Iran. [[Rumors]] It would place us in those parameters. But don't worry, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, these demagogic statements about what the Citizens' Security Act would mean have turned out to be false; neither gag nor anything, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing two proposals for legislation, one from the Socialist Group and the other from the Basque Group, which are contradictory and antagonistic. The Socialist Group's proposal seems to be a bad parody of Spielberg's film Return to the future, because we are proposed, no less, to go back to a law of the last century, to a law of 1992 and I do not know if it is progressive to go back to a law of 1992. It is a law that, it must be recognized, was positive at the time, no doubt, but was obsolete by the important and numerous social and technological changes that occurred during its existence. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u24	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u25	This law was also controversial - it was called the Law on Kicking in the Door - and was corrected by the Constitutional Court. In short, it was a law that needed to be amended, as the Government was asked to do even by this plenary session of Congress. This amendment was necessary, convenient and timely in order to collect decriminalized offences, to incorporate the case law produced during the previous law, as well as to incorporate social and technological changes. What does the Socialist Party bring us here today? He takes us back to the past, wants to repeal the law and go back to the past. They're just looking for a headline, but don't worry that today they're not getting the headline, they're not getting the headline. They presented a PNL and said: The Law has been repealed gags! No, no, They filed a motion and said: The Citizens' Security Act has been repealed! Well, no. And now they come up with a proposition and say, "The Law has been repealed! Nor, ladies and gentlemen. In its proposal there is not the slightest analysis of the law that is intended to repeal, there is no study of what works and needs to be changed, there is no proposal for improvement. I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, but the parliamentary legal technique they put forward is terrible; there is a lack of interest, a lack of work and there is only one political pose to look very, but very left-wing. But really this is going back to the past, it would mean increasing some of the penalties provided for in the law. By the way, it was said that with this law, sanctions will be imposed for EUR 600,000. Well, the 1992 Act, in 1992, already provided for sanctions of EUR 600,000. I had it coming. Returning to the past would mean not punishing behaviors that were considered faults and now are not. Returning to the past would mean not applying preventive measures for trafficking in human beings; I do not know whether that concerns them or not. Or not to regulate and sanction activities with drones. Would you like to return to the Stone Age, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party? [[Applauds]] Your proposal does not contain specific deadlines for expiry, so we would go to the general deadline: three months to process the dossiers. It would lead to a massive expiration of the files processed. Is that what you want, ladies and gentlemen? His proposal would entail the repeal of the special regime for the borders of Ceuta and Melilla and the possibility of applying the rejection at the border. It would in practice seriously endanger the civilian guards protecting the fence, increase the so-called effect and illegal entry of foreign citizens without authorization and, above all, of those who achieve it violently. [[Rumors]] How far the socialists' appeals during the Zapatero government seem to be to legal and orderly emigration, to the protection and defence of our borders. I have looked at him and I remember the words of his spokesman, Antonio Hernando, on immigration and security. He claimed self-containment in criticism. Do you remember your complaints because migration policy tended to exaggeration, excess and demagogy? For in these statements there is a literal from Mr.Hernando: We are asking the state security forces that those who fail to comply with the law because they do not have proper documentation must first be detected, then arrested, and then move to a detention centre and be expelled. Or Zapatero's proposals to protect Ceuta and Melilla's fences with the Legion. Return to common sense, gentlemen of the PSOE. Your group's proposal should not be accepted, taken into consideration. We have also studied the proposal of the Basque Parliamentary Group. Unlike that of the PSOE, it proposes a reform of the 2015 Law, in the sense that the Minister of the Interior has already proposed: offering dialogue. Let's study the problems, see where there can be negative impacts and get to work. The People's Parliamentary Group is much closer to this proposal, but we do not share the whole or the literality of some of the changes they propose and therefore the concrete definition of reform must be negotiated in the proposal for a dialogue offered by the Minister. We have a balanced law between freedoms and security, ladies and gentlemen, which in its practical application day by day has not caused great problems, but few problems. It can be improved and some spokesmen today have approached dialogue and consensus, but others have sought or have referred to the social confrontation, the justification of the violation of the laws; some are of the parties that get excited when a policeman is brutally assaulted in a demonstration, of those who consider police and civilian guards bastards or of those who, instead of gaining power, want to assault him; or some who, when they were mayors, expelled those who protested with T-shirts from the full of their city. [[Applauds]] Look, the People's Party doesn't want to be in the ruffians' club; we don't want to be. And let me use the words of the PSOE spokesman, Mr Hernando, who claimed that the policy of citizen security and emigration is separate from exaggeration, excess and demagogicism. Ladies and gentlemen, these were words from years ago, but they were sensible, and today we should all be affected by them, including Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I would also like to tell you that accepting the two proposals for legislation will be an absolute shock; we will have to amend and deal with a law of 1992 and at the same time, in the same procedure, introduce amendments to a law of 2015. If we finally have two amended texts, do we bring them here? This is real nonsense. Both proposals of law should not be dealt with together because they are really antagonistic. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u26	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, in Marea, organ of the United States of America. [[File number 122/000060]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u27	It is now appropriate to discuss the consideration of the proposed law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, organic on euthanasia. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Sibina Camps.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, good afternoon. I would like to begin by saying that this proposal for a law on euthanasia is not only from our Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, but is the result of the work we have done together with a group of people from different fields of knowledge who have been working on it for many years. I'm talking about sociologists, lawyers, professors, nurses and doctors. This proposed law on euthanasia is also for all the collectives who have been working on it for years; it is also for people like Luis Montes, like Fernando Marín, like Marcos Hourmann, and above all it is also for people like Ramon Sampedro or Immaculate Echevarría and so many other anonymous people; to all of them, thank you very much. [[Applauds]] The population is clear: 78%, according to the CIS, and 84%, according to Metroscopia, support the regulation of a law for euthanasia, being overwhelming, for example, the majority of voters of the People's Party. In the face of such social support, our group is keen to listen above all to the spokesman of the Socialist Group, in case they add any argument to what they commented to us yesterday in a very paternalistic way, because, in fact, it is not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, we are looking forward to you coming up to this rostrum because one of the strong arguments that we were given will have to explain it very well to the people. Please explain here, in this rostrum, that people hear it loud and clear; tell people face to face that society is not mature and that there is no social consensus. Say it and it's in the Journal of Sessions. Tell people that their freedom is abducted in this House, that the right to decide about our life is abducted in this House. Is it really going to be the Socialist Party that turns around and says: the debate on this law and when it will be done will I say it and when I say it, will I decide it? Is this really going to be the Socialist Party? How long to wait, ladies and gentlemen? [[Applauds]] Come up here and explain it, please. Tell Larraitz, who has been with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis for more than twelve years, who said publicly: I only ask you to help me a little bit to end this agony. Or explain it to José Antonio, sick with ALS, who wants to be dead every morning that opens his eyes because he is suffering pain in an unbearable way. Tell José Antonio that the debate will take place later, when you decide that society is already mature. To José Antonio, to Larraitz and all the people who are suffering unbearable suffering; explain to these people who are suffering and to those who the palliative care, executed to perfection, do not respond to their suffering and who can no longer, that you will already speak quietly about when this debate should be held. Come up here and explain it to him; explain to people that it is necessary to calm down, that we will see later, if that, than when society matures. Get up here and explain it. [[Applauds]] In many autonomous communities, you have been the driving force behind initiatives calling on the government to adopt a regulation such as the one we are presenting today in this House; it has been you. For example, in Euskadi, in 2015; for example, in Catalonia, a short month ago. And I continue: in the Valencian Community, Extremadura, Navarre, Cantabria, Asturias; it was you. What's the matter, Socialist Party gentlemen? What's wrong with them? That you do not want to vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration because it is proposed by our Confederal Group? But what's wrong with them? Say it, say it! When's the time? When? When do you say? [[Applauds]] Yeah, when you say it. When? Next month? In September, in December, in January 2018? When you say it, right? Look, 91% of your voters are in favour of decriminalizing euthanasia, so explain it to them, don't explain it to us, explain it to them. What are they going to say to them, that they prevent euthanasia, that first goes their law of dignified death, a law that is not indispensable with the normative framework that we already have and that does not help to give social or political or legal response to the cases that are contemplated here? I'm finishing up, Madam President. Finally, imagine that you have before you the person you most like: a son, a brother, a sister, a cousin, a friend, imagine that you have that person before you, that that person looks into your eyes and says, "Look, you know, I can't anymore, I can't anymore, I just ask you to help me, to help me finish my life decently, to help me die in freedom." And more or less a similar thing said Ramon Sampedro in these verses of his poem - and now I do finish, Madam President: Your look and my look / as an echo repeating, without words / 'inward', 'inward' / up to the beyond of the whole / by blood and bones. / But I wake up always / and always want to be dead, / to continue with my mouth / entangled in your hair. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u29	Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Civil rights, like social rights, are also conquered, they are part of citizen pressure, of social movements, of people who most of the time are organized in advance of political parties. Perhaps this is a feature of the subject we are talking about here today, as my colleague Marta said in the previous exhibition with data, the data of all the demoscopic studies on the relevance or not of having in our country a law of euthanasia, a law for dignified death that includes decriminalization of euthanasia. The data is overwhelming. However, here today, according to what the main spokesmen of the groups have said, the possibility of having a law of euthanasia is going to sink. Our group, however, is not going to give up for this transplant, it is not going to give up because we know that we must continue to press, we must continue to organize ourselves because we know that this is a necessary law that has social support and we are going to help make euthanasia one day present in the imagination of our country as a social right, as a conquered civil right. This has already happened before, it happened with the legalization of divorce and the legalization of same-sex marriage, which today are civil rights absolutely established thanks to the struggle of many collectives, of many organizations and also of political parties. Today people don't remember who did it, don't remember what it cost and don't remember that there were many people who went against the approval of those rights and that today they are benefiting from those successes. Indeed, at those times also a party such as the Socialist Party was responsible for that approval, but today, Members of Parliament and Members of the Socialist Party, you have placed yourselves on the other side, you have placed yourself on the side of not wanting to move towards the conquest of new civil rights and it has been surprising because it is you yourselves who have also contributed, as Marta said, to the possibility of launching, suggesting, requesting or demanding this Congress today that we might have a law of euthanasia. However, today is not going to be like this. Ramón Sampedro, who has also been quoted by Marta, said that it is an example of extraordinary courage, that living is a right but does not have to be an obligation, because there are certain vital circumstances, with incurable diseases that cause great suffering, for which an adequate law is indeed needed. That's what our group is proposing here today. Humanity has long reflected on suffering, and particularly on perpetual suffering, on infinite suffering. You will remember the myth of Prometheus: for stealing the fire from Zeus, Prometheus was punished for having an eagle eat his liver every night, but since he was immortal, that same liver grew over and over again. It is a myth that reflects very well that humanity and specifically our society has always been reflecting on perpetual pain and I believe that our society in the twenty-first century has the capacity to confront it in a civilized, rigorous and with absolute guarantees. This proposal law has not come from heaven, has a lot of work behind it, has a lot of guarantees behind it, has a lot of rigour, and although there have been medical advances in our society that have increased life expectancy, it has also increased the generalization of pains that definitely make it impossible to continue living with dignity, and from a developed society is expected a proper legislative adaptation to these times. The values of this proposal of law are values known to all, I think it represents the values of Spanish society, the value of solidarity but also of compassion. We are aware each and every one of us here that we share a feeling of vulnerability. We are aware that each of us and each of us could suffer from an incurable disease and we could find ourselves faced with the need to choose to end our life in the face of a pain that will not end until death. I think we are aware that our society has to give a civilized response. They are values and principles such as that of autonomy, that of being clear that we and we are the only ones who have the capacity to decide about ourselves and ourselves, that no one can decide for us and for us. We could understand that that is the root of liberalism, but of current liberalism, because we have heard in the previous speech to the spokesman of Citizens talk about liberalism, of the Courts of Cadiz of 1812 and it seems lie that Citizens, putting the label of liberal, is also today another group that will not support the increase and improvement of a civil law. It seems that so much to quote the 19th century have remained in the 19th century. [[Applauds]] We cannot confuse the right to life with the right to live at any price and under any conditions. There is very clear legal support for our proposal, there are a number of guarantee institutions that develop this proposal of law that we are presenting here today and, in any case, we do not forget that it is a very serious and very rigorous proposal but it is a proposal to take it to a Commission and to work it out among all the groups. That is what we want, to work with the Socialist Group, with Citizens and even with the Christian vein of the People's Group, if you still have something that will make you understand what compassion means in a developed society. That is what we and we want to do, what we have brought here today for older people who suffer incurable diseases and who have the right to live with dignity until the end of their days. And we also want the necessary professional guarantees, with doctors who have to report on the situation, doctors who have complied with what they have been doing so far but with extended freedoms, doctors who have to rely on the work teams of nurses, nurses, doctors and doctors and all the specialists, in addition to an additional doctor to give a second opinion, with sufficient mechanisms to make it clear which documents have to be delivered. In short, an evaluation commission for each autonomous community, which has the powers, and a monitoring commission at the state level. All of this is developed in the bill, so I'm not going to entertain myself anymore on these issues and I'm going to finish. We also add the right to conscientious objection of those medical professionals to whom this question seems inappropriate and at the same time the guarantee, in the event that this professional does not do so, that another can do so. Moreover, it is a service that should be funded in the national health system of our country as in other developed countries, following the footsteps of European countries such as Belgium or the Netherlands, but also of Canada and other countries in the world that have already launched processes such as this and have been successful. Let us learn from all of them, modernise our country and do not look elsewhere. Please, Citizens' Parliamentary Group and Socialist Parliamentary Group, amend your vote. We do not want it to be remembered in ten years' time that this initiative was proposed by us. That is not what we are interested in, but there is a law of euthanasia. You have in your hand whether today is a historic day or beginning to be for our country. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u31	Mr Turrion Churches has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u32	Thank you, Madam President. To prepare this brief intervention I have been reading some testimonies of people with an irreversible situation of impairment of their quality of life or dignity and wanted to share with you one of those testimonies because he was addressing politicians: I want to die, but they won't leave me. I don't understand, where is my freedom? You, who deny me this right, have forgotten that you are where you are because we have all loved it and have also forgotten that your obligation is to provide our needs as much as possible. What kind of saint can you deny me the right to dispose of my existence? I belong to that group of people - there are many - that we are in a very special situation. We don't have the slightest quality of life. Our non-quality of life is shown in many different ways: total immobility, very intense and constant pains, endless suffering, inability to feel and enjoy the beat of this life. However, we have two things in common: the suffering of all those around us, friends and family, and above all our lucid mind, and that lucidness of mind is that which supports me both in expressing my desire to die and in demanding that the means be made available to me to carry it out and, in some cases, that we be helped to achieve it, because our impossibility to do so is total and absolute. I've learned to read the faces of all the people I have around me. I see the impotence they feel when they can do nothing to improve my existence, I see the suffering they suffer by imagining mine. All of them are not in accordance with my decision, it is true that everyone does not share it, but since it is a supreme act towards me, they respect it because it is my decision. I don't want to go on as I am because what I have is a hell of a life. No one can understand my tears every morning when I wake up to discover that I am busy facing again another day of unlimited suffering or with the sole prospect of continuing to look at the same piece of roof that allows me the mobility of my eyes because I have not been lucky enough to die while sleeping, which is what I most desire in this world. This is why I repeat my question: Where is my freedom? Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be honest with you. I do not expect anything from the reactionary bench of the Group of the European People's Party today or from the liberals of the nineteenth century, but from you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, I hope at least that you have the dignity of not preventing a law of euthanasia in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u33	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea has submitted a proposal for a law that, if carried out in its terms, would mean legalizing euthanasia, that is, authorizing assisted suicide throughout Spain and decriminalizing its practice by health professionals, because otherwise article 143 of our Criminal Code would apply. This is not the first time that this type of matter has been discussed in the General Courts; in fact, it is an issue that has been raised relatively often in one way or another. Adopting this consideration today would mean a legislative voluntary towards postulates that are not part of the priorities of Spanish society in 2017, apart from being a medical, political, social, ethical and moral problem of the highest magnitude because it affects the main right of everyone: the right to life. He therefore recalled for his importance the work that had been carried out in the Sixth Legislature in the Special Commission for the Study of Euthanasia created in the Senate, in which there had been numerous appearances of national and international experts in many of the fields related to this very complex subject and, although some media silenced him, with overwhelming testimonies against its decriminalization. There were no conclusions after several years of meetings, nor was the Congress of Deputies able at the time to reach an agreement in its attempt to create an organ to study euthanasia. In the face of the initiative of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, which I am going to reject, I would like to emphasize on behalf of the Forum our support for health policies aimed at improving the care of terminally ill and also their families; our support to promote and recognize the right of each and every person to live always with dignity, and that also includes the end of his life. The regularization of the rights of persons in terminal and agony situations, who will be able to receive comprehensive palliative care, is currently being developed throughout Spain. The legal frameworks adopted in nine of our autonomous communities in relation to dignified death also provide for the duties and legal certainty of health professionals. Spain is a country in which good health care is provided and, in fact, in relation to palliative care, there has been a rapid growth in the programmes and services that respond to the mandate of our Constitution on the dignity of the person referred to in article 10. Even so, more support could be sought from the families and relatives of the patient to assist him in his final trance, in addition to strengthening the health care providers who care for patients in terminal conditions. I will vote against this initiative, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u35	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group too, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. This serious issue should not be a matter for any medals today because it is a matter of humanity and courage, and I say this by addressing the Socialist Parliamentary Group; the same courage that you had when you proposed homosexual marriage. That day you gained freedoms, that day you advanced, that day you were brave. Today it is not about being medals, today it is about being human, being brave, moving forward and going further, because talking about a dignified death is also talking about the life, freedom and right of autonomy of free people to decide how and when they want it to be the end of their lives. But it is also to speak of dignity, of the dignity of the patient to choose if he wants to die in an assisted way, surrounded by his own, freely, painless and dignified, because it is not always necessary to extend life to the extreme, to the exhaustion, until the suffering of those who suffer it is absolutely an agony, a torture. From Compromís we defend the right of everyone to freely dispose of his or her body and life and, therefore, also of his or her death, respecting the right to freely choose the time and means to end it. We want to decriminalize cooperation on dignified death also by repealing article 143 of the Criminal Code. We want the Spanish State to make progress today - as other countries in our environment have already done that have been cited before: Holland, Belgium, Canada - towards respect for the will of terminally ill people who want both a dignified life and a dignified death. For all of them, for humanity, for courage, for compassion, for all of them, we will vote yes. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u37	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The public debate that tries to resolve the difficult question of the transition from life to death when it occurs in a situation of severe suffering must be approached with serenity, without ideological a prioriism, in order to do so in addition to an integral way, guaranteeing the right to receive quality care that alleviates suffering in an ideal environment, from the right to have palliative equipment twenty-four hours, seven days a week; strengthening the integral and continuous training of health professionals, clinical psychologists, social workers; promoting the document of anticipated wills and also - why not - decriminalizing the one who expresses his desire to die dignifiedly. It is also necessary to avoid the manipulation to which the most vulnerable may be subjected, which should not be caught by the easy interests of third parties or other persons. All of this must be dealt with in a law like the one you propose. Thus, yes, personal autonomy and, above all, the protection of the most vulnerable must be guaranteed. As I said to you, all this must be accompanied by maximum consensus and serenity and be closely linked to the maximum deployment of palliative care and care resources. Ladies and gentlemen, Catalonia has been a pioneer in legislating on patients' rights, in legislating on the document of anticipated wills, in the development of palliative care, and now the Parliament of Catalonia is also drawing up a proposal to bring it to this House from the maximum consensus and with the serenity that it was talking about. Four of the six groups currently present in the Parliament of Catalonia will send a proposal for consensus to the Congress of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party will not break the consensus that has been built in the Catalan House. The Socialist Party, Junts pel Yes, the CUP and Catalonia Yes that is Pot have agreed on a document they are going to refer to this House. We will address this document because we are talking about a fragile right, a right of consensus, a tough situation that needs to be addressed, as I said, calmly, so we do not want anyone to march or stand out. We will be faithful to this compromise and, when it comes to this House, we will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u39	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go. Good afternoon, everyone. Is it ethically acceptable to help a person who wishes to die because of his tremendous suffering? Who is it to establish what a worthy death is? Is the prolongation of life always a good or is it sometimes to give in to other medical, human, etc. considerations? Can life be extended at any cost? Is therapeutic obstinacy justifiable or, what is the same, is it ethically acceptable to reduce therapeutic effort in certain situations and to let a person die? Does health care personnel have an obligation to be subject to the will of the patient even if he or she contradicts his or her professional judgement? And if you have it, do you have the right to conscientious objection? All these questions and many more come to our mind when from personal or close experience we face situations that legislatively in many cases do not find a satisfactory answer, but a real answer is needed. The Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea presents a proposal for organic law on euthanasia. If there is any issue that requires debate, calm, subcommittee, presentation, speeches, appearances, all that you think is appropriate, this is this House, and not others that we have created as if we were here doing nothing. This one does require it. That is why we believe that the previous steps that Autonomous Communities like Euskadi have taken, for example, have not yet been taken in this House and that they are the stage before legislation in this very complex matter. In recent decades, major socio-economic changes, global improvements in living conditions and major technical and medical advances, i.e. their growing capacity to cure diseases, alleviate suffering and prolong people's lives, have led to an increase in life expectancy, resulting in an ageing population and an increase in chronic and irreversible diseases. The type of health care has also changed, without a doubt, and a model of shared responsibility has been emerging in which the sick person is increasingly involved in decision-making in his or her healing, treatment or even end-of-life process. We are also witnessing a greater awareness and consideration of the needs of people at the end of their lives, that is, of any very elderly person or one who has been diagnosed with certain advanced, incurable, progressive suffering, which does not respond to specific treatments and which has a limited life expectancy over time, and also of the needs of those suffering from incurable, degenerative, very painful or severely debilitating diseases. We live, therefore, in an open and advanced society, prepared to deal with and resolve these kinds of situations with complete normality, or so it should be, at least. We, as political leaders and, in my case, as a representative of a democratic, plural, participatory, confessional and humanist party, open to progress and to all the movements of progress of civilization that improve the quality of life of people, consider it necessary and opportune to debate openly on these issues that affect and will affect each and every citizen and to establish the principles, criteria and conditions for ensuring adequate attention from the Administration during the final process of life. The PNV has discussed and dealt with this issue and even has a document approved at the general assembly held last year in Iruña and called 'Dignity at the end of life. PNV's position. In addition, we have positioned ourselves in the Basque Parliament, together with the Socialist Party and Euskal Herria Bildu, in a joint transaction, on the basis of the need to respond to a latent social and health situation, in which the Government of Spain is urged to amend article 143 of the Criminal Code in order to decriminalize assisted suicide. We have even included this debate in the electoral programme with which we are presenting ourselves to this House. I could have brought an appointment from Cioran, but it would probably have been too hard. No doubt it's better to bring Petrarca. He said that a good death honors a lifetime. The human being, conscious of his mortal nature, has sought well-being in life and surely has neglected the good end, assuming that agony and suffering were innate at the end of life. Social and health evolution, as well as getting rid of misunderstood moral pressure, have made us dignify the end of life in the face of suffering and pain. We understand that the end-of-life process must be attended to in an integral and integrated way by socio-health teams that respond to the physical, psychological, social, emotional and spiritual needs of all affected people. That is why we have legislated in Euskadi and adopted in the Basque Parliament the Law on Guaranteeing the Rights and Dignity of Persons in the End of Life Process. All persons have the right to comprehensive palliative care from the moment of diagnosis of their disease. Care that should be deepened and increased as the therapeutic means of the underlying disease fail to achieve its curative objective or as the patient succumbs to it. This palliative care must be universal and accessible in both the socio-health and home areas. Since the medically assisted death - the so-called assisted suicide and euthanasia - has a criminal charge in the Spanish State, we must certainly promote in society a process of deliberation on its morality in view of its possible decriminalization. This is the case in this House; on the other hand, other debates that we want to bring in correspond to autonomous communities. The issue of decriminalization is a matter for this House. And, Mr. Garzón, thank you for including us, along with PSOE, Citizens and People's Party, which seems to be the only parties that exist for consensus. In any case, we consider assisted suicide as the medical practice by which the intellectual means and/or essential materials are provided so that someone can end their life effectively when they wish. We understand euthanasia as the medical practice that deliberately, directly produces the death of a patient. We could continue, but surely today we have to refer to this proposal for a law. The proposed law that brings us We may not like us in its entirety, it seems to us that it has legal loopholes and certain political leaps that require further analysis. There are articles, as I said, that do not seem to us the most correct and we believe that it sometimes goes beyond limits on some organizational issues and on some criteria in the article that, methodologically, does not seem to us to be right. For example, in that of the ex post evaluation committee, etc. But it will not be the PNV that opposes the debate; it has never done so. We are not afraid to debate, we are not afraid to deal with these issues. In Euskadi we have been pioneers in these matters, so we believe that it is good that they be dealt with, it is good that the proposals that each one considers appropriate be formulated and that each one position himself in this matter. Thus, once it is done, we will be able to develop and work on the future law that gives satisfaction, above all, to society. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u41	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u42	Good afternoon, President, ladies and gentlemen. Freedom to face life and freedom to face death as well. Today, in considering this proposal for a law, we speak of freedom, of the autonomy of the will, of freedom to face life as we want to live it, but also of how we want that final part of life to be: death. This is what the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea proposes for consideration. Nobody escapes, since this is an objective fact, that Republican Left over all these years has been presenting initiatives in relation to dignified death and euthanasia. It welcomed the feeling of many associations and people who have been defending the right to a dignified death for many years. It is therefore necessary to remind different Members of the Republican Left; Mr Puigcercós in 2001; Mrs Bonás in June 2004; Mr Ridao and Mr Tardà in 2010. All of them, all of Esquerra's deputies, ran into the wall of the People's Party and the wall of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. We have therefore come for a long time to defend the right to liberty, the right to decide that everyone has how he wants to live and how he wants to address the end of his days. As human beings we have the right to decide whether or not we want to live it under certain conditions. This is endorsed by the Constitutional Court itself, which recognizes that the right to life is a right of individual disposition and that there is no doubt that the transit to a dignified death is part of the most intimate of a human being. In other words, there is no obligation to live, life is not a duty, it is not an obligation. The State must protect life, it must guarantee the right to a dignified life. What the State cannot do is impose living and in all circumstances. The conception of the right to life that implies the maintenance of this even against the will of its holder must give way to conceptions more in line with those of an aconfessional State, respect for individual freedom and the right of self-determination that we have as individuals. Affirmations that are part of the existing legislation - article 10 of the Spanish Constitution when it proclaims the dignity of the person, the inviolable rights inherent in him, the free development of personality, respect for the law and the rights of others as the foundation of political order and social peace -. It is true that we have progressed a little, we have moved from the approach in which the patient could not give opinions or decisions in the medical treatment that should be provided to the patient as a centre of decision-making thanks to the Patient's Autonomy Act of 2002. In Catalonia we go ahead. We have been a step forward in relation to legislation on patients' rights and advance will documents and in the development of palliative cures. Also in the preparation of the letter of rights and duties of citizens in relation to health and health care, prepared in 2001 and revised and approved by the Department of Health in June 2015. It is necessary to protect the freedom of the person, but also the one who practices euthanasia and under what conditions in practice. Mechanisms must exist to confirm the will of the person and to ensure that his or her decision is the result of a free, informed and conscious decision. Informed means that the person knows his or her situation, the alternatives and possibilities, including palliative care. Aware of the significance of decision and will. We are talking about regulation, about being able to give effect to a right, about not preventing the right to a dignified life and to a dignified death. Society is prepared. There is a majority of citizens in favour of regulation. Someone has referred to it before. The 2011 CIS states that 77.5% of people are in favour of euthanasia. As I said earlier, health legislation has advanced, the person is at the centre of decision-making, but, on the contrary, State legislation continues to penalize, punish, through article 143.4 of the Criminal Code. This is the legal framework which prevents, in this case with regard to Catalonia, a dignified and painless death from being facilitated to the person who, in a situation of extreme suffering or suffering and in full possession of his or her powers to make the decision, expresses his or her will and desire to die and requests assistance in this regard. Catalonia only lacks a derogation or, in any case, a different regulation of article 143.4 of the Criminal Code. In this regard, the Parliament of Catalonia agreed to present to the Bureau of Congress a bill for decriminalization of euthanasia and help suicide. In accordance with this express request of the Parliament of Catalonia we understand - Republican Left has maintained it over the years - that it is time that the right to decent life also incorporates the right to a good death. Dying dignifiedly also includes palliative cures. Yes, it is promoting the document of anticipated wills and it is also decriminalization of euthanasia and assisted medical suicide. The present proposal for a law can be improved, yes, of course, among many other things because it overlooks the regulation and advanced legislation of Catalonia. Despite this memory of Catalonia and, therefore, of the failure to contemplate what we have done there, Esquerra Republicana will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration. [[Applauds]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u43	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Igea Arisketa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u44	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, if anything important has been said in this Chamber in these two legislatures, it is certainly the subject of today's debate. It is so important that I must regret, even recognizing Mrs Sibina's compassion and heart, the demagogy that has been done here with something that for some is very important because, Mr. Iglesias, I anticipate that you do not have the exclusivity of compassion. [[Applauds]] I have spent thirty years of my life caring for patients with digestive pathology: stomach cancers, pancreatic cancers or esophageal cancers. I've seen a lot of people die and I've seen a lot of people die. I could tell you about Luz, Marisabel, Charo, patients who have sedated in my arms. You don't have the compassion exclusively. [[Applauds]] It is true that in Spain one dies badly, it is true; in Spain one dies with pain in rooms of three because a nurse of the night shift has to attend to thirty bells and no one has guided a morphine bomb. It's true. It is also true that there are people who die drowning for weeks, of course it is true, because no one has explained to them that they have the right to receive sedation, even if this shortens their lives. It is true that there are people who die in anxiety and ignorance that they are dying because no one has informed them of what is happening to them. All that's true, but nothing about that speaks of his law. It is true that there are people who die connected to a machine, or the unfortunate case of Andrea, a girl with an irreversible illness who forced her parents to go to court to disconnect her from an enteral nutrition probe. It's true and it's unfortunate. How do our elders die? In residences, disoriented and tied to a bed. Forty per cent of elderly people with dementia in this country die from physical attachments tied up. Why has no one, except Citizens, brought an initiative to this House to end that? Why is this the only alternative? [[Applauds]] It is true that there are patients with neurological injuries who are in their home kidnapped without technical help. It is true that there are people who have a tetraplegia or advanced lateral sclerosis who die without even being qualified as disabled, who die without technical help, who die without that chair managed by a chin that would allow him to move and leave the house. It's true that all that happens. Has anyone come here to talk about the orthoprosthetic catalogue or those benefits that would help the sick to live the days that are most comfortable for them? [[Applauds]] All these things are true, and the Spanish Palliative Care Society has said barely three or four weeks ago that it is urgent that the right and guarantees of people be regulated in this country at the end of their lives. It is so urgent that the first party that brought a law to this Parliament was ours, the 19th-century liberals. [[Applauds]] But I'm going to tell you what your alternative is; a law that regulates assisted suicide, and point. Assisted suicide is not the right to dispose of your own life, it is the right to die at the hands of others, something quite different, and it makes the State responsible for participating in that decision because you want to turn it into a benefit and so it is in your law, so it is not an individual right, it is a right that affects the whole society and that therefore has to be well regulated, and when things are regulated, they are regulated in a law. What we have done, which I doubt very much that some of the speakers who have spoken on the part of Podemos have done, is read us their proposal for a law. [[Applauds]] Its proposition of law is a law without guarantees, a law that opens the door to euthanasia in cases of psychic suffering without the need for it to be an irreversible disease. That's barbarity. The American Psychiatric Association has ruled in November that it should not help a psychiatric patient die, and this is in its law. [[Applauds]] You give as a guarantee period sufficient 15 days. Would any of you pass the diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis within 15 days? Would any of you overcome a major depression in 15 days? Would any of you get through a tetraplegia in 15 days? Well, this is what you give, 15 days. [[Applauds]] There is an absolute absence of fedatary in the making of this decision. The only fedarian is the doctor. You can't test without a registrar, without a notary, but you can declare you want to die. You say that you guarantee conscientious objection and force the doctor to make conscientious objection, force him to look for another doctor, force a doctor who thinks that what he is doing is not right to be a necessary co-operator looking for another doctor. This has neither feet nor head. [[Applauds]] And I am not going to tell you about the ex post evaluation committee because this law, as you say, is a copy of many who are here and of the worst of the worst laws there is of euthanasia and include there an evaluation committee that will say whether euthanasia or assisted suicide was done well after in fact. Little use. But not only that, but you skip the Penal Code because you decide that if there is a suspicion that it has not been done correctly, a two-thirds majority is needed, which is that if three people think that a murder has been committed they do not have to go to the prosecution. Aren't you going to let them go to the D.A.? That's his law. In addition, their law says that they have to do so within a period of three months. Is the murder statute going to go from five years to three months because you say so? [[Applauds]] That's right, you make sure that family members get insurance because it's certified as natural death. That does include it in his law. It is a law for a few, it is only a law for a few, because I have to tell you one thing, there are very few, very few, in my experience, those who, when you give them a fatal diagnosis, tell you: I want to die. Most people say I want to live. [[Applauds]] Dignity, honourable Members, is not how we die, dignity is how we live because we are free citizens until the last of our days. That's the last of our lives. Life is what we want to guarantee with dignity until the last of days. [[Applauds]] The alternative to spending days of pain, dyspnea, connected to a machine or dying tied up cannot be just your law. The alternative to horror cannot be suicide alone. [[Applauds]] We have proposed a law that includes many more alternatives: the right to comprehensive palliative care, the right to withdraw life support measures, the right to information. All those rights and many more are in our law. You're just talking about the right to assisted suicide, that's all you're talking about. We have not closed our eyes to reality; so we have not closed our eyes to the reality that in our agreement with the People's Party is the creation of this law; and so we have not closed our eyes that the comprehensive law of rights and guarantees will come next week to this Chamber to be debated. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Mrs Sibina, I will conclude. The day my time comes I'd like to have a nurse like you, but a law like mine. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u45	For the Socialist Group, Mr Villar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal we are debating is of the greatest social importance and of fundamental legal-constitutional significance, as it directly affects, inter alia, the right to life; a right, in the words of our Constitutional Court, essential and truncated as it is the ontological assumption without which the other rights would not have possible existence. Hence deep human feelings, inevitably related to religious beliefs and ideological and moral convictions, are raised in this debate. We need to be aware that this debate is not only taking place in our country; we need to be aware that there are still very few legal systems that allow euthanasia and assisted suicide. Although more and more widespread movements have developed since the last century in favour of its legalization, almost all countries continue to prohibit euthanasia criminally without referring to it, although in some countries it may appear to be subsumed in collaborative conduct with other people's suicide or murder upon request. This is true, for example, in Switzerland, a country which only punishes cooperation with suicide when it obeys selfish motives, generating such insecure regulation that it opens a considerable gap to euthanasia and gives rise to so-called euthanasia tourism. Other countries, very few, and not without a significant degree of controversy, have decriminalized certain euthanasia and assisted suicide behaviors. This was the case in 1995 in the territory of Northern Australia, Darwin, and in the American State of Oregon, but in the first case the measure was repealed within a few months and in the second a federal court declared the law unconstitutional. The case law also continues to open this path in some countries. In Colombia, by a decision of the Constitutional Court of 1998; in Canada, the Supreme Court's Carter ruling of 2015 revoked the prohibition of assisted drug suicide and this has led to the application of this doctrine to such a law in Quebec of 2015 and another federal law. In relation to the cases of the Netherlands and Belgium, which are often seen as paradigmatic and modelled to a certain extent, the established system is not exempt from strong criticism; criticisms which have to do with the insufficient guarantees established in the Netherlands, with inadequate supervision of medical decisions, with the weakness of the guarantee of a posteriori control and with the argument of the so-called slippery slope, consisting of the progressive expansion that is occurring from suicide assisted to euthanasia, from terminal patients to chronic and from physical illness to psychological suffering and even goes so far as to say existential suffering. This is also reflected in the high figures of euthanasia in this country compared to others, such as Oregon, which has a comprehensively agreed and prudently implemented guarantee legislation, but still there is controversy over the lack of guarantees. Ladies and gentlemen, if I make this brief outline, it is to note that these cases of legalisation are not the rule nor are they incontrovertible models on the world stage, but exceptions showing progress, showing setbacks, successes and mistakes. In short, we are facing a socially established debate that is thorny, complex, in need of clarification and the establishment of broad consensus, including medical consensus. We cannot ignore the fact that the European Court of Human Rights unanimously and in a negative way ruled on whether Article 2 of the European Convention in any way protects suicide assisted in the famous Pretty judgment against the United Kingdom of 2002, pointing out that this provision cannot be interpreted as meaning that there is a fundamental right to die. Our Constitutional Court has followed the same path and has upheld this same criterion in its jurisprudence, but it has specified that it is part of the same a power of self-determination that legitimizes the patient to decide freely on the therapeutic measures and treatments that may affect his integrity, choosing between the different possibilities, consenting to his practice or rejecting it, which fits perfectly with the legislation on dignified death. In the most recent Lambert et al. judgment against France in 2015, the European Court has held that even in the cases of a person who is being artificially kept alive there is no consensus, ladies and gentlemen, which is widespread in the Member States of the Council of Europe, so - the Court says - it is necessary to observe a margin of appreciation due to the fact that this is a very delicate issue, very complex from the medical, legal and ethical perspectives. As we can see, the debate is also established in case law, and the same can be said in the field of ethics and medicine. It is enough to verify for this purpose the World Medical Assembly's resolution on euthanasia of 2002, reaffirmed in 2013, according to which euthanasia is declared contrary to ethics in any case, which does not prevent the doctor from respecting the patient's desire to let the natural process of death continue in the terminal phase of his disease. The same is true of suicide in his 1992 statement, revised in 2005. Thus, the Socialist Party believes that a calm social debate should be opened in our country on the regulation of euthanasia and assisted suicide, as is clearly reflected in our electoral programme, with a view to establishing and establishing a necessary broad consensus on this fundamental issue. We are dealing with a debate that affects the dignity and core of people's fundamental rights and therefore has a constitutional, not exclusive or primarily health-related dimension. Therefore, the priority of our political formation is to provide Spain with a good and evolved basic law of dignified death that still does not exist and the development of all the services and resources necessary in the National Health Service to make it a reality, in order to enforce the right to a dignified death throughout the territory of the State on conditions of equality and in such conditions that there is no discrimination of any kind. [[Applauds]] There are still many differences, ladies and gentlemen, many shortcomings, many divergences, and we must guarantee in full access to the vital will, access for all patients at the end of their lives to palliative care and terminal sedation for all patients who request it. For this reason, the Socialist Group presented on February 7th a proposal for a law on dignified death collecting the contents of the bill submitted by the Socialist Government in 2011 and which fell for obvious reasons, the proposal for a law submitted by our group in the X Legislature and the progress that has been made in this area by the autonomous laws, especially in Andalusia, Navarre, the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands. You see, Mr. Spokesman of the Citizens' Group, that your proposal was not even the first. Ladies and gentlemen, we are very aware that Spanish society seems to be willing, according to what the opinion polls reflect, to open, it is true, a deep debate on euthanasia. We do not reject it, on the contrary, we consider it necessary and so I explained to you yesterday, Mrs Sibina, but we understand that this debate should not be hasty but rigorous and serene. The Socialist Party considers that the regulation that United Podemos presents is hasty. Citizens, lawyers, doctors and other social and professional sectors must be heard, they must have the opportunity to participate in the formation of a clear consensus on the issue in our country. We know that existing national regulations differ in many respects and that they sometimes lead to situations of lack of legal certainty that need to be studied and reviewed with the utmost caution, but that debate should not stop the necessary and urgent process of having a good basic law of dignified death. Mrs Sibina, you have devoted your time not to explaining the content of your proposal, but to threatening the Socialist Party, by the way, by taking unfair advantage of a conversation we had yesterday. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Well, I'll tell you why I don't think your proposal is appropriate. It does not seem appropriate to us because it has important shortcomings and falls into errors already committed in the countries mentioned, in addition to being very hasty. Only by way of example will I tell you, because I lack time: in the very delimitation of the factual assumption by reference to mental disorders that the patient considers intolerable and in the absence of the relevant guarantee element, among others, lack of witnesses and only the presence of the doctor when signing the application or revoking it, the ability to address by the doctor responsible to another doctor consultant of his choice, which pollutes the choice and devalues the guarantee, as well as the failure to establish the specialization of such a doctor, the absence of a general procedure of psychological order, the failure of the deadlines - as has been said - for the performance of the requested service, the failure to establish the procedure of verification and last assessment before death, the absence of a prior control, provided only one afterward, which may give rise to derived practices or serious errors that would be irreversible, deficiencies in the guarantee of conscientious objection, forcing the objector to offer effectively to the applicant of euthanasia or suicide assisted another professional, a function that must be reported to the administration alone. You have not sought consensus, if you had, you would have resorted to us to present a joint initiative. You have sought to wear the medal trying to humiliate other groups in this House. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u47	For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Cortés Bureta. Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. What we are discussing here this afternoon goes beyond the analysis of a proposal for a law, it is a social debate that, beyond its health dimension, raises ethical, legal and political questions. We are asking or asking the proposing group what is the scope of the decisions of the person about the end of his life and what is the mission of health professionals at that point, and in that debate it is true, it has already been said from this rostrum, bioethics groups, the media, medical professionals, sociologists, jurists and, of course, politicians are involved. The People's Parliamentary Group has a clear position endorsed by some arguments that I will try to put forward. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak, even if some hope so, of holy fathers or high pontiffs. My perspective will be especially human, but we cannot forget that this humanity falls within our constitutional legal framework. It is that fundamental rights such as the right to life and to physical and moral integrity, the principles of human dignity and the free development of personality, the value of freedom, ideological and religious freedom are committed in euthanasia. On the one hand, there are those who claim that the human being's capacity for self-determination is total and absolute, so that he would be legitimized to exercise that freedom and decide to put an end to his own life and, on the other hand, those who understand that life should be administered autonomously, but that capacity for self-determination cannot be translated into absolute availability. Both the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights maintain that the right to life does not include the right to have it. The right to life is not a right to freedom that includes the right to death itself. The right to integrity, understood as the free disposition of one's own body, is also not absolute, because often the loved one is not legitimized in the light of the rules. In that sense, think, ladies and gentlemen, of some practices of genetic manipulation. As there is no right to mutilation, neither can we understand in that provision that there is a right to dispose of one's own life. Think of a very, very simple example. What would they say if in the exercise of having one's own life and one's own body a person - a Spanish citizen - decided to sell his body and dedicate his life to slavery? Would they allow me to be a slave or a slave? Would you like us to draw up a law that would regulate and decriminalize slavery again? Wouldn't that be so, ladies and gentlemen? Therefore, that freedom that defends one's own life has limits in any society. It has also been said here that the legal protection of life. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u49	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u50	Article 15 has an important social dimension which the Constitutional Court has also recognised. That someone wants to die does not simply lead to someone being able to kill, ladies and gentlemen. It's one thing to let yourself die and another very different to ask a third party to cause you death. If we recognize one person's right to get help in dying, we are symmetrically creating an obligation for another person to kill, ladies and gentlemen. The words are not wrapped up to help the writer or the speaker, but the right instrument to know what things are and are not and sometimes mistakes occur, so that in some cases in purity we could not talk about a right to death itself, but rather to murder itself, ladies and gentlemen, as many expert publications reveal. In euthanasia, a third person, who is a healthcare professional, is always involved, someone to whom society takes care of the weakest and most vulnerable people because they are sick. As much as we try to deny it, there would be a change in the role of the doctor or in the professional image, because that doctor who is obliged to cure and mitigate the pain would become, ladies and gentlemen, an executioner of almost official deaths. [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah, I mean it. Some didn't expect anything, but I do. In their proposal they refer to human dignity and here I would like to make an approach to them. Dignity as a starting point or as a point of arrival? If we understand dignity as a starting point, that concept of dignity is congenital to life and accompanies the person from birth to the end. If we understand dignity as a point of arrival, that is linked to conditions of human quality. Then, if these conditions of human quality are lost and life ceases to be unworthy, perhaps it does not deserve to be lived, but if dignity we have it from the day we are born until the day we die, even if those conditions could be lost, ladies and gentlemen, life would remain worthy. From this rostrum reference has been made to concrete testimonies - as the spokesman for Citizens said, it is an ardent attempt to monopolize sensibility or compassion - in which someone asks to die, but, ladies and gentlemen, if a person who has lost his quality of life or dignity asks to die, what do we say to those who have lost that quality or are in that situation and want to continue living and fighting? What do we say, that his life is not worthy, that he is going to live indignantly? [[Rumors]] That can't be done, ladies and gentlemen, can't be done. The People's Parliamentary Group will never accept this approach because for us life is always worthy, from the beginning to the end. If we accepted that approach, we would be depriving people who suffer from severe limitations or severe psychophysical suffering, who are precisely the ones who need the most attention, of dignity and courage. When in colloquial terms there is talk of unworthy living conditions, what are unworthy are the conditions and behaviors of those who consent to them. Let us therefore strive to ensure that these conditions are dignified and that these behaviors do not occur, but the life of the sick will never be unworthy. For my group, ladies and gentlemen, dying with dignity means living decently until the last moment. Therefore, we must guarantee the technical and human attention that these patients need with the best possible quality and seek professional excellence, precisely because they have dignity. In a speech I have heard, the fact of dying with dignity is associated with the absence of suffering. No one wants suffering and no one wants pain and, ladies and gentlemen, that is where palliative care comes into play, which is the direction in which both the People's Parliamentary Group and the People's Party Government are working. This is demonstrated by one of the measures we have signed with Citizens, which is to pass a law that regulates policies that allow a dignified death of people in the final process of their life and the right to palliative care aids to avoid suffering in case of untreatable disease, but without addressing active euthanasia or inadequate final sedation. It is not true that opposing euthanasia responds to ethical and religious impositions by public authorities, because, moreover, defending it is not ethically neutral either. There may be people who ethically accept euthanasia in certain extreme circumstances, but who are at the same time against their legislation or regulation, because they understand that the consequences that can be derived from a law may be more negative than positive. It has been said here that there is a risk to the weakest that in a way that may be silent or indirect they may be coerced into thinking that they are a burden for society or families. There is a risk of weakening the patient's confidence in the health system, there is also a risk for progress in palliative care and, above all, there is an argument which is that of the slippery slope that have put on the table authors who do not have ethical repairs to certain requests for euthanasia, but who consider that their legalization would lead in practice to unsolicited euthanasia and consider that this is unacceptable and has serious repercussions. We may run the risk that, once euthanasia is legalized in the event of a voluntary request, the social climate may slide towards an application in cases of unconscious or incapacitated patients who have not expressed such authorization. Therefore, we understand that this is not the time and that a law on euthanasia in Spain is neither timely nor priority. Ladies and gentlemen, allowing death to prevent medical incarnation or respecting the right to refuse treatment does not require a legal rule in our country. I would like to conclude, Madam President, by recalling the question from one of the spokespersons of the proposing group to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I won't be the one to answer for you, but your question has made me think. He said, "What would they tell a son of theirs if he looked into his eyes and told him he wanted to die?" I am a mother and I refuse to put myself in that situation because it is hard for me, but I tell you that I will teach my daughters to live in dignity and to know that when the final day comes they also have to face it with dignity. I will help them in everything I can and, if unfortunately I find myself in this situation, I will seek medical assistance, I will get their environment to be friendly, I will help them to fight with all their strength and to want to continue living and, ultimately, ladies and gentlemen, I to a daughter who gave her life would not be able to give her death. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u51	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u52	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the elaboration of an industrial plan for Navantia, S.A. For the presentation of the initiative and its amendment, Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u53	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I come here to talk to you about the future, I come here to talk to you about three cities in this state: Cadiz, Ferrol and Cartagena. In these three cities we know how to make boats - we know how to do many other things, but above all we know how to make boats - we feel very proud to know how to make boats and we would like - so we talk about the future - to continue making boats, not as a protected species, which seems to be what we are in Cadiz, Ferrol and Cartagena, but with dignity, with future, with height and with a new productive model for this country. I don't know if you know that talking about ships is talking about science, it's talking about technique, it's talking about knowledge, it's talking about the Century of Lights, about light, about brilliant men and women who had the intelligence to locate three magnificent shipyards in our state. It is to speak of Jorge Juan, it is to speak of the Marquis de la Ensenada, it is to speak of the best we have in our peoples and in our State. It is also to speak of that pride we feel in those three cities of workers' struggles. Yes, we are very proud of the workers who have fought exemplaryly in our country to defend their rights. [[Applauds]] For example, in my country, Welsh Working Class Day is due to the two murdered nothing more and nothing less than in Bazán. We are proud of that legacy and want to continue making boats despite the fact that there are some who do not believe in the industry, despite the fact that there are political organizations that have ruled this country that told us that the best industry was the one that did not exist. From the legacy of that socialist minister and those sources we continue to drink. We are still without an active industrial policy, we are still, for example, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, without an industrial ministry. What future can a country have when it lacks an industrial ministry? We continue, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, with those remnants of bipartisanism in which the People's Party or the Socialist Party was just as ruling, because we still did not make boats, and it is that history has been very heavy for us. There are three milestones in the naval sector on which I will pass very quickly. The first milestone was when we entered the European Economic Community and had to live a small sacrifice. They told us that we had to convert, but they did not convert anything; what they did was turn us into an industrial desert, but they told us that it was necessary to reconvert, to tear down our naval sector, in order to be able to enter the European Economic Community. That is, at a high price: since then we have left nothing but a million industrial jobs on the road. A second milestone was when we joined the monetary union, the euro; what I am going to tell you, more speculation and of course no productive economy, because impacting on the productive economy is bad. Doing real things, doing boats, doing wind, doing things that help people walk is bad for the parties that have ruled this country. And finally, a third milestone was the 2007 crisis, managed by the People's Party and the Socialist Party in the same way: managed against the workers of this country; managed also against the naval sector. I do not know if you know of any industrial sector in this country that meets the characteristics, a sector that we can say is the jewel of the crown of our peoples. I don't know if you know him, but I'm gonna give you some data. We are talking about an industrial sector that houses nothing more and nothing less than 25,000 workers, which is no small thing in the times ahead. We are talking about an industrial sector, the naval, vital for the economy of these three enclaves, of these three regions; vital for the peoples who are in the regions of Ferrolterra, vital for the companions and companions of Cadiz and vital for the companions and companions of Cartagena. We live on boating and that's what we want to keep doing. [[Applauds]] I'll give you more data. I do not know if you know of any industry that is clearly an exporter, deeply internationalized and in which we can presume to have engineering projects and equipment, for example, in Australia. We're exporting the best we can do. We are not exporting sheet and paint, we are exporting R+D+i, technology; we are exporting the future of this country, and of course the Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea wants the peoples of our State to continue to walk, as well as the men and women who have the right and the dignity to continue working for the strategic productive sectors. I do not know whether you know that, in fact, a deep-technological sector deserves the attention of a government. If one governs, he should say that for him this sector is strategic and, therefore, as strategic, men and women of the People's Party and the Socialist Party must be in the hands of the public in order to be able to intervene, to be able to trade, to be able to define our future. I come today to ask you two things: decision and intelligence. Decision, because we have learned - those of us in the naval regions know it perfectly well - that if there is a sector that is deeply politicized, it is precisely the naval sector. We only appear in an election campaign; if not, let them tell the People's Party in April, which obviously took the picture with all the unions and with all the company committees to tell us that this industrial plan was already going to be made. [[Applauds]] And we still have absolutely nothing. But I also ask you for intelligence, because a country that has a leading sector, which has a strategic sector, would never give up on it. I would never give up on him so that Germany, Poland, Holland, so that many other countries - I will not overwhelm them with the data - will continue to build what we do not do right now. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, there is no longer a veto in civil construction, there is no longer Mr Almunia, who was the bad one, no longer weighs anything on us, we can and we want to make boats, and our ranks, our technical teams still do not know what we want to do. Therefore, intelligence not to give up the strategic sector. But I'm asking you for something for that industrial plan. The first thing you have to do is stop a person who today is a real risk to that company: the president of Navantia, Mr Revuelta, who is putting this company in check. [[Applauds]] I'm just gonna give you one piece of data. We have as never in the history of the naval sector in Spain the worst possible management, of a lord from whom I invite you to read his curriculum: the same worked in Prisa than selling shoes. You have put it, Mr Montoro - absent -, nothing more and nothing less than to govern the designs of a company as powerful and as important as Navantia. It seems that this gentleman is the greatest risk we have because today we carry almost 300 million euros of losses. We ask you to support this initiative, let this sector be strategic, let us rejuvenate the staffing, let us say that we want to cooperate with the public university to make strategic projects and designs, let us say that we want the agreements with the auxiliary companies to be complied with, those agreements of 2001 and 2006, which, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, are failing to comply.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u54	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u55	We ask you, in short, to put yourselves on the side of productive models, decency, life and workers in that region; otherwise, as a distinguished representative of the People's Party who I am not going to name, we will convert - it was said when the Socialist Party ruled - Navantia into an industrial cemetery. Be copies now, vote in favour and get to work. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u56	For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Martínez Oblanca is speaking first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. Although Navantia is a public company that also has four other shipyards in Cádiz and Cartagena... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u58	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u59	... both the text of the initiative and much of the arguments of Mrs Díaz Pérez make exclusive reference to the two shipyards that the shipping company has in Galicia. A correct policy of general interest must take account of all the Spanish shipyards, without prejudice to considering some of their more specific aspects. In relation to the military naval industry, I do not have time to expand on the dual language of the proposing parliamentary group when it comes to this strategic sector on which 5,000 jobs depend in Spain, to which could be added those of auxiliary and indirect companies. In Navantia, Cadiz, five corvettes will be built by foreign commission, and I have heard the mayor of the city, from Podemos, go back to the Phoenicians to explain now, in 2017, the benefits of the magnificent contract of the Gaditan shipyards with the Saudis. Welcome once again to the reality bathroom. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal takes advantage of the unequivocal rattlesnake that has led to the decision of the National Court to invalidate the fourth collective agreement of the public shipyards by considering that Navantia's management acted in bad faith. But this initiative is not in line, for the indispensable Forum, to generate and obtain better conditions for the public shipping company and for the whole naval sector, which still carries a period of eight years, begun in 2006, of lack of workload, without meaningful contracts and, attention!, severely damaged by the complaints concerned from other countries, complaints that obtained the unveilings and the protection of the European Commissioner Joaquín Almunia. As a result, the Spanish shipyard sector suffered a devastating impact, with the loss of tens of thousands of jobs, due to a very unfair discrimination which for years suspended our tax incentives, the tax lease, until the European Court of Justice gave the right to Spain a year ago, an appeal, by the way. In Spain our naval sector is equipped with highly qualified personnel and magnificent facilities. Hence, it is very important to boost the shipbuilding industry in Galicia, Asturias and all over Spain, in all Spanish shipyards, so that they compete globally. But the proposal does not call on the Government to promote competitiveness so that this public shipping company and the entire shipyard sector will face structural reforms and aid that will enable them to compete on an equal footing with other countries in the world. In the Forum this seems essential to the present and future of Galicia, of the workers of Ferrol and Fene, for those of all Spain, including those of Asturias, who also have good shipbuilders with capacity and technology to generate many jobs. In this respect, Madam President, I have tabled an amendment which aims to include important points for the Spanish shipyards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Campuzano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u61	Thank you, Madam President. From the seat. Mrs Díaz has transferred a compromise proposal to her initiative as a result of the amendments that the groups have tabled. The text of this transaction affects the need to diversify the activity of the public company Navantia, a bet for programmes of ecological recycling of ships and also in offshore wind, and at the same time bets on investments in research, development and innovation, in a context of rejuvenation of the staff and professional redevelopment of these workers. It is a text that in this literality, if it enjoys the support of the groups that have amended, will also find the support of the Democratic Party. Any industrial policy initiative aimed at maintaining employment, modernising industry and strategic and innovative sectors seems appropriate to us. That, inevitably - mention was made of it a few seconds ago - does not stop being curious, of a certain contradiction in the speech, the text that we are now going to vote on in relation to the debates that we have in this House on the arms industry, because the text that we are going to vote on and that will logically count on the votes of Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podem-En Marea is also a bet by the Spanish arms industry, in particular for the ability to continue building warships. That is a good debate in which we must all be able to be sufficiently serious and coherent in defending our positions. When we discuss in this House the arms trade of the Spanish State and show that Spain is the eighth or ninth arms exporting power, it also has to do with maintaining employment. Let's be serious about this discussion. We are talking here about jobs in Cadiz, Galicia, Cartagena and we are also betting on continuing to build war corvettes. Let's split it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u63	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Compañeras, excellent compañeras de En Marea, we understand the concern you show in defense of the jobs in Ferrol, Cadiz and Cartagena. [[The lady]] And, of course, we would like to see these jobs maintained and, if possible, increased in quantity and quality. However - the opponent had to come - we question that the maintenance of these jobs is at the expense of the suffering that Saudi Arabia can generate with the acquisition of the five corvettes manufactured by Navantia or of those that can be manufactured in the future for the same or similar purpose. Therefore, we insist that the sale of these corvettes should not be allowed and that alternatives to Navantia's industrial viability should be sought. Because we consider that there are alternatives, beyond doing business with suffering and death. That is why, and thinking of the workers of Navantia and their families, we have tabled an amendment calling on the Spanish Government to make a study on the industrial conversion of Navantia to stop being a military company and a civil production company. In this sense, we consider that there are possibilities for feasibility in the field of naval deconstruction for ecological recycling or in the production of marine wind turbines, the so-called offshore wind. The problem is not that of viability beyond the military industry; the problem is that the PP government has made a clear ideological bet for the military industry and refuses to study - not even to study - other possibilities. Also, the PSOE. That is why year after year, both PP and PSOE, vote against a classic that is the amendment that Esquerra Republicana presents to the budgets to make a study of the conversion of the arms industry. We'll wait for you there. We trust that the future will go through a culture of peace, in which the maintenance of jobs will not depend on war elsewhere in the world. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. Mr Cano Leal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u65	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the GNP presented by Podemos has also been amended by the citizens as it concerned only Ferrol's production unit and the industrial plan on the content of this initiative. It is therefore a fairly mendable GNP. Why are we talking about including the other two productive units in Spain, namely those in Bahía de Cádiz and Cartagena, Murcia? For two reasons. First of all, by origin. Navantia originated in the Real Arsenal de la Carraca de San Fernando in 1717. From there, Cartagena was created in 1731 and Ferrol in 1750, which was the sole origin of GNP in its original wording. Therefore, first reason, origin. Second reason, potentialities of the industry. In Cadiz there are the largest installations of the entire company on the surface, has one of the largest dykes in the world, has two portico cranes that are the largest in Spain and is specialized in the construction of BAC - supply ships in combat -, BAM - ships of maritime action - and patrols of height, repair and transformation. Likewise, within the Bay of Cadiz, located in San Fernando, there is the system factory, which presents the latest technology and develops combat systems, weapons, ship control and maritime safety, as well as other products of civil application. In Cartagena is specialized in the construction of submarines and fighter mines, engine factory and repair. Therefore, first, origin; second, potentialities and, third, workload. If one of Navantia's production units today has little or no workload, it is precisely that of the Bay of Cadiz and, in particular, San Fernando. Ferrol has built a platform support ship, there are four jackets for the North Sea wind farm, 42 jackets for the UK, with a million hours of work. A BAM is being built, just like in San Fernando, and after summer two BACs will be built, each BAC is equivalent to almost two ships of maritime action. However, in San Fernando, a BAM is being built uniquely and exclusively, which will be launched on 30th of this month. From there, zero potato. There's no workload in San Fernando. To this extent it is so that in the Bay of Cadiz a civic platform was created for a long time that has developed 123 measures in which Podemos has participated. It therefore draws attention to the fact that his initiative in the original wording did not contemplate the Bay of Cadiz. Mrs Díaz, have you explained to U.S. deputy Podemos for the province of Cadiz, Noelia Vera, that her initiative did not include the Bay of Cadiz? Mrs. Vera, have you explained to the Cádiz unemployment groups that the United PNL We can forget about Navantia in the Bay of Cádiz? In general, Mr. de Unidos Podemos, do your colleagues in the local corporations of the Bay of Cadiz know that it is not a priority of your party to fight, here in Madrid, for reducing unemployment levels in Cadiz, which are the largest in the country? Fortunately for you, Citizens will save your face with the amendment and the pressure that has been put on this weekend. [[Applauds]] We were talking, firstly, about the need to include the two productive units and, secondly, the content. What do we ask in our amendment? We ask to launch a strategic plan for the entire Navantia company, not just for Ferrol. To define an R+D+i investment plan; a rejuvenated and professionally qualified workforce maintaining wages; to meet the needs of the Spanish Navy; to develop a commercial policy inside and outside the Navy; to improve production processes; to create a research and innovation pole in agreement with the university; to develop a human resources policy based on merit, capacity, transparency and equality; to establish and approve a single collective agreement involving especially senior technicians and to promote a state pact for industry. Mrs Díaz, I understand that the PNL you presented with your original wording is the result of your party's ambiguity in these positions as they stand up every day. I give you the example of Saudi Arabia's corvettes, on the one hand, it is based on Cadiz and, on the other, it is said that a plan will be developed to reconquer the antimilitarists that we have lost. As for Navantia, we were a few days ago at the door of Navantia, at its headquarters, supporting and supporting the workers and the line followed We can - or the confluences of Podemos - develop a demonstration at the doors of the Olsen industry. In short, ladies and gentlemen, Podemos' industrial policy is not really based on industrial consolidation or on a conquest of work, but essentially on exclusively ideological ideas. I warn you one thing: with their press interventions they are putting the future of thousands of Spanish families at risk. In conclusion, Madam President, Mrs Díaz, welcome to wisdom, cordiality and unity. Let us all work and bet on a Spanish public industry, Navantia, guaranteeing jobs and wages, consolidating the viability of the company and enhancing innovation as a strategic sector. It is a real pride for me - and I am finally finished - that the compromise reached by all political groups should have as a reference and as a fundamental basis the legislative initiative that Citizens presented in the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Cano Leal. Mr García Mira has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u67	Good afternoon. The initiative we are debating in this House involves the recovery of an agreement which was signed in April last year, almost a year ago, and which gathered a broad consensus on the part of the parties in this House in repeated committees and was the result of the agreement with the most representative trade union organizations in the sector. We would like the Government to make an effort this time to finalize this initiative, bearing in mind the need to draw up an urgent industrial plan for the shipyards in Navantia and which we cannot consider to be more than basic and of key importance for the economic and social development of the various territories on which the shipyards are based. Navantia is today a sector of great strategic value for Galicia as well as for Andalusia and Murcia, communities in which the crisis has been particularly aggressive in the course of these years a significant reduction in their staffing, an ageing of staff and a significant loss of professional qualification. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the side of pushing forward this industrial plan - the maximum guarantee for the survival of shipyards - but we ask that collective bargaining be incorporated as added value and shared with the agreement of the workers' representatives. This plan should include a financial plan that includes the corresponding economic consolidation of the company, the guarantee of the necessary resources, but also a work plan that boosts job creation and faces the inescapable generational relief with the mechanisms of regulation and loyalty of the auxiliary industry. Navantia must have at its head professionals who know the sector and who are able to steer the course of a company that is key to the industrial development of the regions where it is located and to industrial policy throughout the country. More than any other, a public enterprise must ensure that the merits and capacities are guaranteed when it comes to appointing its senior management, setting an example in both organizational and financial matters and in labour relations. But as we agree with the initiative of the industrial plan, we believe that, as political groups that we represent citizens, we must be responsible and go beyond appropriate efforts, which means placing emphasis on political action and not on indeterminate efforts that would leave the Government with the capacity to decide at its own will, to do or to undo or to ignore what is being proposed, which has forced us to formulate the corresponding amendment. The Socialist Group has tabled this amendment, which seeks an approximation to the consensus in this House, which allows us to push forward what has so far been nothing more than a repetition of excuses, a repeated disregard of the sector or a turning our back on enhancing the economic development of a sector with capabilities, which is just what has characterized the policy of the People's Party Government. Emphasising the need to recognize the shipbuilding sector's strategic nature for the industry and economy of Galicia, Andalusia and Murcia because of its high capacity to generate direct and indirect employment is a priority. But no less priority is to put in place the necessary initiatives to recover the climate of normality and negotiation between the business and trade union sides and thus resolve all these uncertainties about the future of shipyards by achieving a sustainable and sustained workload also over time. The Socialists believe that the necessary investments should be addressed in order to deal with future contracts with the Ministry of Defence, such as the F-110 frigates, preferably in this exercise. Let us remember that the start of work on the part of the systems was already approved at the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2015, as well as other contracts. We believe that new marketing channels should be established to encourage the export of products made in shipyards and the search for mechanisms for the regulation and loyalty of the auxiliary industry as they are another key element of what we believe should be part of the action that the Government should take. [[The lady]] The trade policy of defence must be treated as a matter of State by implementing a programme of productive investments that consolidate the capacities of shipyards in the Ferrol, Cádiz Bay and Cartagena, in which actions are carried out to support the improvement of the production processes and the improvement of the facilities, to serve for their modernization and to enable them to adapt to the new needs of the sector. The Socialist Parliamentary Group is therefore committed to greater staff training, taking the appropriate decisions to promote a process of rejuvenation and continuing training and a strong commitment to technological and productive investment, and ultimately to research and innovation, which will guarantee the future of the sector as a tractor of industrial activity in the regions of influence and where shipyards are located. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, this House cannot be alien to the development needs of a sector that has been of vital importance to the country but has been led by wrong and inefficient directions and actions, and must push forward a plan for Navantia according to its trade union representation that contemplates and defines strategic and market activities with regard to shipbuilding, which defines the necessary resources and an investment plan for R & D+i. Investments should be clearly directed towards organisational, functional and technological modernisation, so that both the construction and repair of new ships can be carried out.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u68	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u69	I'm done. But in a way in which Navantia remains a leader of shipyards and international reference in shipbuilding, civil and military. In view of the fact that the amendment tabled involves the acceptance of all or virtually all of the points we raised, we will support this initiative with our vote. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u70	Thank you very much. Mrs Moralesja Gómez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u71	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to you all. Believe me when I tell you that I have read this initiative several times and I can't get two words out of my head: opportunism and political hypocrisy. Opportunism and political hypocrisy are two of the words that come out of my head most forcefully; surely there could be others that better explain what I want to say, but right now it is those that come out. I hope, Mrs Díaz, that I am mistaken and that at the end of this sitting all the parliamentary groups that we are here making up this House can have a high level of view and of course always benefit the general interest of our country. The truth is that it is difficult to tell so few truths or to lack a little rigor in so few words. And, of course, what I don't understand is how we can come to this House to talk about Navantia in the terms set out in the non-law proposal. You know, everyone knows but you know it very well, that in recent years an effort has been made rarely seen in public shipyards. When my party began to rule in 2011 there were no pending orders. [[Rumors]] No, there were no pending orders, because they devoted themselves to something else. Ships could not be sold. And if something has to be recognized in this House is the strong commercial impulse that Navantia has had thanks, among others, to the Spanish Navy and the Royal House. And I don't care whether you like to hear this or not, it's the truth and someone has to recognize it in this House. As all your ladies and gentlemen know, Navantia is carrying out an active commercial policy in all markets: shipbuilding, military and civil; as well as in the markets to which the diversifying activity of the company is directed, such as sea wind, wind energy. We are establishing strategic business alliances for the coming years, so a great deal of effort is being made and a commitment determined by internationalization. I do not know if examples of the contracts that have been made since 2013. These contracts have been increasing and perhaps we should remember them. We must remember the fleet, the four oil tankers, the two LACs, the two BAMs, the five jackets of Norway, the thirty-four jackets of the Wikinger marine wind farm, the forty-one jackets of the East Anglia One marine park; perhaps we must also put on the table the contest launched by the Australian Defence Department or also the one awarded by the Indonesian Navy. Of course, we must also highlight the five corvettes of Saudi Arabia. We know that since 2013 Navantia's order portfolio has been growing and the new contracts and options that are open in several markets ensure not only the maintenance of our shipyards of Ferrol, Cartagena or Cadiz, but also all jobs. That is what we are dealing with and we are concerned about all the parliamentary groups in this House. [[Applauds]] In addition, we are all aware of the significant captor effect that is generated in the locations of the country where Navantia is on all auxiliary industries and production units, because many indirect and outsourced jobs depend on it, and we also fight for them. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot start a proposal such as that which brings us to this debate today, at least to the truth. There really is commercial activity in Navantia. We all agree, so there must be. You come to criticize the workload, but a few days ago in this Chamber your party and you stood against the contract with Saudi Arabia, as you said before, and yet today you say there is little commercial activity. I would like you to explain to our group and to all the groups in the House, even to the ferrolans where you live, what is the reason why you do not want Navantia to build boats for Arabia. What if it was for Iran? Tell me what you said about the patrols we built in Venezuela. What did you say? Are these regimes more respectful than others? [[Applauds]] No, Your Honor. Therefore, this is what I was referring to at the beginning of my speech with political hypocrisy. I hope I can be wrong - Mrs Díaz, you and I understand each other -; I hope I can be wrong at the end of the day. You're talking about the economic situation. It's true, you're right, Navantia is in losses, but in losses because it's not all that competitive it has to be; in losses because there are competitors all over the world getting better prepared - and you know it - with whom we compete over and over again in all the contracts we compete with. And that is a task that we have been dealing with and concerned about for a long time. We know that it is not complete, that there is a lot of work to be done, and we are devoting all our efforts to that. But, of course, Mrs. Díaz, you do not want to give examples of conversions because none of them were made by the PP. None of them were made by the PP and yet you and your people at that time asked for them, supported them, but they did not get anything. You well know that the region in which he lives could never recover what he was. And even if you try to mix things up with each other, citizens are not fools. In Navantia you are working to make your shipyards competitive. The road is designed; you know it too, we talked about it: shipyards 4.0. And steps are being taken, in the case of Galicia, in collaboration with the University of La Coruña and the Xunta of Galicia, as it could not be otherwise. There are funds for the training of naval workers. The Galician Junta has just approved EUR 12 million on its previous council. That's worrying about training. It is true that we will have to continue exploring new markets, and we have already set foot in the sea wind. They ask for an industrial plan; okay, it's necessary, we don't hide it. In addition, we are committed to it. A few days ago we even reached an agreement in the Senate, but you didn't want to join. I hope that today is not the attitude because sometimes they prefer the banner and the demonstration rather than fix a problem or seek a solution. Today, as in the Senate days ago, this parliamentary group is committed to reaching an agreement in which I believe we are all involved, with the naval and with Navantia. And I hope that now we see who wants to work and who prefers to be behind the banner. Thank you very much, and everyone with the ship, please. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u72	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u73	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. I am a little surprised that you are talking about aid to the sector, aid to the sector which is ultimately aid to a given company, although the sector does not only conform to Navantia, the sector also forms other shipyards, and in Euskadi we are aware of this. In fact, Navantia has many problems: financial, personnel, workload problems, which are putting its viability at risk, but I also want to make three notes about the conversion of this sector. Naval conversion was particularly intense due to the maritime transport crisis that began in 1974. The crisis in the sector and Spain's entry into the European Economic Community necessitated a conversion of the shipbuilding sector to compete in a new, more global scenario, including adjustment of productive capacity and staffing. Thus, we are faced with several stages in the conversion of this sector from 1977 to 1996 which were the stimulus to demand and the granting of aid. The State took charge exclusively of numerous companies in the face of the massive withdrawal of private capital. From 1998, SEPI proceeded to a new reorganization of the Spanish shipyards, leaving a single public shipyard, in Sestao, dedicated to the shipbuilding and civil construction, to then merge it with Bazán, dedicated to the military shipbuilding, giving rise to IZAR. In 2005, the Community authorities, which declared certain aid received by IZAR to be incompatible with the market, demanded that it be returned, and in view of its inability to deal with it, the orderly liquidation of IZAR was decided; the liquidation of IZAR in order to improve its business efficiency, an objective which seemed not to be achieved. The latter conversion of the naval public sector involved the disappearance of the IZAR shipyards, privatizing the civil business and focusing Navantia on the military business with restrictions on the civil construction business. It was then thought that given the competence of the Asian builders, it was safer to circumscribe the activity to the public than to the competition, and therefore from the Basque Group we demanded in its day that LaNaval de Sestao be part of Navantia, because we believed that this would make the company more protected, being public. However, SEPI did not include it in Navantia, opting for its privatization. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u74	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u75	Company that has managed to survive competition by specializing in high-tech ships or in sectors with higher added level, looking for market niches where the margin to compete is somewhat higher. That is why there has been no other type of aid; there has been aid to the sector but not specifically for it. However, the severe economic crisis of recent years and its impact on the public accounts have caused the resources earmarked for the naval construction of Navantia to be significantly undermined. The Navanthia crisis is not a cyclical but a structural crisis and the company must face real changes in order to improve its competitiveness and profitability, which go beyond timely injections of money and which must allow the future for the whole sector, not only for the public shipbuilding company but for the entire state shipbuilding sector. The reality is that Navantia is not going through a good economic moment because of the spectacular fall that the naval defence market has had as a result of public budget restrictions at international and national level, with a strong fall, since its main client has been the Ministry of Defence. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u76	One second, Your Honor. One second, please. [[Pause]] You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u77	I would also like to remind you that in the first ten years Navantia has had to limit by 20% the turnover of the civilian segment, top that disappeared in 2015, so Navantia can enter to compete freely with the rest of the shipyards in the civil market, segments, as I have said, of high added value in which all the shipbuilding tries to take positions. And this is where the doubts arise. SEPI reserved for Navantia the military shipbuilding with its creation and privatizing the civil business. That Navantia can operate freely in the civil sector a complementary activity, making competition with public funding and with other non-money but public aid also to other companies, which are also suffering and that with a lot of effort in a very complicated global market are succeeding in maintaining in this sector after all the conversions, privatizations, legal insecurities and important investments, we are concerned and worried about the whole sector. We know very well that the problem is there and that it affects a large number of workers in this shipbuilding sector, and that it also has a considerable territorial impact, but to ask the Government to guarantee a plan to ensure the viability of Navantia with a public budget, also for the civilian side, we believe that it can harm the rest of the sector, and in any case we believe that what should be done by the Government is to defend the entire naval sector and not just a few. There is no special support for Navantia, a public shipyard, when other private shipyards have made an important restructuring to be prepared to face the new market. Navantia cannot base its strategy solely on public aid or State aid; it is time to make a strategic reflection with rigour, looking where the sector is going, analyzing business units, seeing its position to take effective measures and that they do not go against or harm other private individuals in the same activity. The naval sector in Euskadi has to say that it is innovative, produces with quality and has been interned for years in the research and production of increasingly clean ships that facilitate sustainable maritime transport, with construction techniques and also dismantles more and more innovative. Also, shipbuilders are getting involved with their technology, investments and risks in the development of renewable energies, both applying their knowledge for known products and also for wind generators that are installed at sea to work in new fields such as tidal energy. All Governments have, most of all, their procedures for supporting the sector, but not specifically for one company, but for supporting the whole sector. We believe that public aid cannot be granted to a particular company which is also public when it is going to compete in the same market, in the same niches, simply because the main military niche for which it was intended is not profitable or viable, contributing in this way to the best possible distortion of free competition, and I do not mean that we should not help Navantia, but that is why we will abstain in this vote,
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u78	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Díaz Pérez whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u79	Madam President, we have reached a compromise that we will bring to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u80	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the power of the right to contract. [[File number 162/000208]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u81	We then proceed to discuss the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on enhancing indefinite recruitment. Mr Echaniz Salgado has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u82	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the markets rigidity often leads to the loss of opportunities, competitiveness, growth and that is exactly what happened until December 2011 in the Spanish labour market. Employment collapsed because the supply was drastically reduced; those who generated that supply found that they had no alternative to redundancy and rigidity or, in other words, the lack of flexibility, adaptability of our market, together with myopia in the face of the crisis, produced a massive destruction of employment. [[The Lord]] In four years, ladies and gentlemen, unemployment increased by 300%, 15 percentage points, and more than 3.5 million Spaniards and their families saw themselves on the street. Of every 10 European unemployed, 6.5 were Spanish. An ostrich Government buried its head underground waiting for others to resolve the situation; they cut benefits, cut rights, frozen pensions and recognized that they could not cope with the situation. Not even, ladies and gentlemen, were they able to make a budget. They were unable to design a strategy, a plan, a program and its tools, threw the towel, gave up acting and called early elections to remove that chalice from them. The results of this conduct, ladies and gentlemen, were evident: poverty increased, inequality increased, the entire welfare state that had been so hard to create in the previous decades was put at risk, and the citizens urged a change of government, a government that did have a plan, that did have a strategy, that had objectives and that was above all determined; determination not to lose the rudder, determination not to lose face to the storm, determination not to allow the rescue, to reform what did not work and, ultimately, to return the Spaniards as soon as possible stability, opportunities and well-being. With a compass in which employment was always marked as north, with a crew and a society that always rowed in the same direction. The strategy, ladies and gentlemen, came to fruition: the plan worked and time gave reason and transformed the agreement and collective longing into an absolutely unappealable and compelling truth. First, the destruction of employment was stopped; then the destruction became a generation of employment and now, ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to consolidate and persevere in what has been achieved. From destroying 8% of employment, 10% has been created, almost 20 points of difference. Almost nothing: 20 points of difference in this country. While others gave to Spanish society 3.5 million unemployed, the People's Party Government has effortlessly restored half of all this and has set out to recover one hundred percent - all of them - and continue to make progress in that direction. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, no Spanish can be surprised that today we are taking up employment again from this rostrum with this initiative of the Group of the European People's Party. Others are more concerned with repealing, eliminating or complicating the lives of citizens, but we like the well-being, opportunities and vital projects of the Spaniards. And the opportunities aren't going to stop us until we can recover 100 percent of what others destroyed and even go beyond it. That is why it is not enough for us, ladies and gentlemen, to have won 5 points on temporary contracts - today there are already more than 5 % of indefinite contracts than with the previous government; we have gone from 70 % to 75 %; it is not enough for us to have 90 % of contracts full-time; it is not enough for us that the indefinite contracts take thirty-five consecutive months to grow to an average of 15 %, nor is it enough for us that the conversions of temporary contracts into indefinite contracts are 47 % higher than 2011 and that 22 % have been fired compared to the previous year. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are not satisfied with the measures adopted: with the flat rate for new indefinite contracts, with the minimum exemption from social security contributions, which has generated about 700,000 indefinite contracts, many of them for young people, and, more importantly, very positive economic effects for all. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we want to promote our third major objective: not only to stop unemployment and generate new jobs, but to make it stable and of quality. We want to continue to design measures, initiatives aimed at enhancing indefinite recruitment so that those who have done their job badly in this field cannot find excuses; we want to find alternatives to transform up to the limit of the causes justified by the company's temporary needs contracts in indefinite, because they benefit workers, because they benefit entrepreneurs by providing them with more stability and, above all, with greater employment involvement. During this time, ladies and gentlemen, we have developed different measures to encourage indefinite recruitment, such as social contributions bonuses, but also the ability to expand them in the future. It is very important to make employers more attractive to create indefinite contracts than to use temporary contracts, and that is why we have proposed, and we call for the support of the House, these initiatives: that the new indefinite contracts are exempt from paying social security contributions in the first 500 euros for common contingencies for four years and that the conversion of temporary contracts into indefinite ones can also benefit from this bonus for four years. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of betting on indefinite recruitment so that there is no excuse for temporary recruitment and it is possible to do so indefinitely. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is growing at 3.2% and its employment at 3.24 %, and that is why we want more employment, and more stable and more quality employment, because old policies and rigidity have left us 6 million unemployed without an alternative. Today, with openness, flexibility and reforms, we can change this situation. Ladies and gentlemen, we have presented an initiative that we offer you with our hand. The Citizens' Group has tabled an amendment that literally reflects the text of the agreement we signed with them in August, which could be perfectly combined with the text of our initiative to improve Spain's ability to have more indefinite recruitment. It is in your hands, ladies and gentlemen, that today this initiative can benefit millions of Spaniards throughout the national territory. We therefore ask you to be responsible and serious so that we can achieve among all the highest levels of employment but also of stability and quality of work that our country has never had. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Echaniz. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Campuzano i Canades is speaking first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also adopt a position on this occasion.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Echaniz, this morning in the Committee on Employment we had a number of debates on our labour market and we focused our intervention on one of the aspects that your initiative seeks to address, which is the problem of the temporaryity of the labour market in Spain. We are talking about a structural problem which has characterized at least since the 1980s - since 1985 - the reality of employment and which had a record moment in 2006, when the temporality reached 34%. Now, in the process of job creation that we are experiencing in recent years, and despite the two labour reforms that have been approved during the crisis, temporary employment in Spain continues to be excessive. The initiative that Mr Echaniz is proposing to us today aims to address not only job creation, but also indefinite job creation. With regard to the policy of bonus and reduction of social security contributions, to which I shall refer later, from the perspective of the Democratic Party, it seems to us essential to address two issues. One of them is the one that we approved this morning with the favourable vote of the Basque, Citizen and Popular parliamentary groups, which is to move towards the model that exists in Austria of the fund of capitalization of the compensation for dismissal with the aim of giving the employer security to bet on indefinite recruitment and, at the same time, progress in contractual simplification. [[EAJ-PNV]] And, on the other hand, the debate on reducing recruitment costs in terms of social security contributions. I would like to recall - and part of the amendment tabled by the Members of the Democratic Party explains this - that last week in a very hard OECD report on the reality of the labour market and the social situation in Spain pointed out that tackling the long-term unemployment of low-skilled workers requires very strong policies to reduce recruitment costs. That is why - I conclude, Mr President - we are arguing that the measure you are proposing to exempt quotas from certain levels will affect low-skilled workers indefinitely. It seems essential to us to have an active employment policy in line with what the international institutions recommend to us in order to cope with long-term unemployment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u85	For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Candela Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the short time I was given I wanted to start by saying a phrase: Reality is defined by words and who dominates words dominates reality. This affirmed Gramsci in the last century giving theoretical content and depth to the configuration of reality and the importance of political narrative. I wanted to say this to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, because you are paradoxically the most advanced students, and you are because you have created a story about your management of the economic crisis. You say in this non-law proposal, and day by day in the media, that thanks to the fact that you arrived and applied a series of measures that entailed a great sacrifice we are now doing much better. They state in this initiative that it is now possible to start creating quality work by improving indefinite contracts. And beyond it being empirically proven that bonuses do not create employment - the famous deadweight effect -, I'm going to stop at the concept indefinite contract. What do you call an indefinite contract, a contract that can be terminated when the company considers that it can be removed from the collective agreement? To a contract that from its labor reform means more rotation, less wages and worse working conditions? To a contract that is ultimately no longer a guarantee of safety or a guarantee of the future of life? His economic model, his country's bet, is nothing but precariousness, inequality and poverty, and in view of all this our country's bet, our future project goes through a national income pact that allows to reduce inequalities and free resources and savings for the necessary change of productive model. Our country project is inclusive, it is a fair country project and, unlike yours, it is a country project in which politics protects people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Candela. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Del Campo has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, the People's Party brings us to this House an initiative to enhance indefinite recruitment. We have seen how Mr Echaniz spoke to us about how well the People's Party has done in its absolute majority government and also told us that when they arrived in the government in 2011, they had three major employment objectives. The first is to curb the massive destruction of employment; the second is to consolidate the labour market; and the third is to create stable and quality jobs. With regard to the first, we agree that much progress has been made, that the trend has been changed and that it is true that we are no longer talking about the destruction of jobs but about job creation, recovering much of the jobs lost in the previous crisis. With regard to the second, the consolidation of the labour market, much remains to be done from our point of view, especially in view of the fact that we still have 3.5 million unemployed and that, as we discussed this morning in the Committee on Employment, we will probably have to turn them around to employment policies and direct them above all to these unemployed, to the drama of the long-term unemployed and to people at risk of social exclusion. But it is the third of the objectives you have told us that you most doubt creates us: the creation of stable and quality jobs. We cannot agree with you here, Mr. Echaniz. You, during the government of the absolute majority, took measures in this area clearly insufficient, and not only that, but the measures you brought did not give the results you thought you were going to give. In this regard, I would like to refer to a headline this weekend: Spain is the OECD country where the least temporary are fixed. Just one in ten temporary workers get an indefinite job in Spain. Those are the measures that the People's Party has brought, ladies and gentlemen. And if we talk about stability, we are told that the increase in indefinite contracts is hopeful and that at present three out of four contracts are indefinite. We already had these figures in 2011: seven out of ten contracts in 2011 were temporary contracts. The problem is not that, the problem is the contracts we are generating today. At present, nine out of ten contracts are temporary, Your Honor. And they have not innovated in other things, but if we talk about quality here, they have created a new phenomenon, that of the poor worker: 6 million workers, ladies and gentlemen, who have temporary contracts, who enter and leave the labour market throughout the year and who do not reach the end of the month because their income does not reach the minimum interprofessional wage. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u89	Wait a minute, Mr. Del Campo. [[Pause]] Thank you very much. I beg your silence. If we could continue with this ambient sound, it would be much better to listen to the speaker; I would appreciate it. Go on, Mr. Del Campo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u90	I wanted to quote a program, the Inform program, where the active employees of the Labour Inspectorate say that, among the violations with greater social significance, there is fraud in temporary recruitment. The third most socially significant non-compliance in our country is temporary recruitment fraud. Understand me, I don't want to tell you that you have to put an inspector or a sub-inspector behind every company. That is probably not the solution and it is certainly impossible, considering that we have 1,800 staff, the same ones we had in 2009, to monitor 20 million contracts. That is not the problem, the problem is that you in four years of absolute majority have not carried out the structural reforms necessary to reverse that trend and to significantly reduce duality. We've put alternatives on the table. We have an agreement with you in which we offer you alternatives, some of which Mr Campuzano has spoken about. This morning we discussed the establishment of a capitalization fund, known as the Austrian backpack, a measure that is agreed with you and also in your day with the Socialist Party; just as in your day it was agreed with the Socialist Party, and then we agreed with you, the creation of a temporary contract with increasing compensation and defined causes, which would impact frontally on the timeline flotation line, or the establishment of a wage supplement as an instrument against labour poverty. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, we have options, far-reaching reforms to make that affect quality, as you said, and stability in employment, and that they could, as we see, have the support of the majority in this House. However, you have chosen to bring a new patch that we are not even sure if it is effective or not, because a measure like this has already been brought by you in 2015. It has been in force until mid-2016 and we ask ourselves: has the impact of this measure been assessed? Has the impact this measure has had on employment been assessed? Has the cost of this measure been assessed? Because, as you know, there is a consensus endorsed - this has also been mentioned - by the evidence regarding the poor effectiveness of allowances, reductions and quota exemptions when they are indiscriminately generalized, as in this case, creating a high dead weight and harming other vulnerable groups. Nor have we been told whether these measures can be paid for. Have you made any reports? Have they made any assessment of what the approximate impact of these measures is going to be? On the other hand, will they be financed from the State General Budgets or will they be financed from social security contributions? You know better than anyone how our Social Security accounts are.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u91	You have to conclude, Mr. Del Campo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u92	I'm closing, Mr. President. In short, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, stop patching yourselves, comply with the agreement you have signed with us, accept our amendment and only if you bring to this House silent reforms will you vote in favour of our parliamentary group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Del Campo. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs. Franco Carmona has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, to close today's session the People's Party brings us a proposal that I have called bipolar; a proposal that, reading the title, seems to come to talk about how to enhance indefinite recruitment, which has missed me a lot, but the surprise lasted me little, it lasted me the time to read two or three lines of the proposal and see that in reality the People's Party came to say that we must continue...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u95	Wait a minute, Mrs. Franco. Please, be quiet. I wouldn't want to have to ask every five minutes and interrupt the speaker. Go on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u96	Thank you. He said that the proposal actually comes to say that we must continue to subsidise companies instead of actually creating indefinite contracts. Gentlemen of the People's Party, I'm going to reveal one thing to you. There are already bonuses for the conversion of temporary contracts into indefinite contracts. I recommend that you take a look around the website of the Ministry of Employment and Social Security and look at some proposals, such as the employment promotion programme or the so-called "entrepreneur support contract". In fact, according to the INE, the labour cost has been the highest drop in the last four years in recent weeks. You lie when you insinuate that hiring workers indefinitely is expensive. Our country since the 1970s or 1980s has suffered what we have called the culture of temporality, which leads us to make Spain's temporality rate even today one of the largest in the European Union - only below Poland - with a 26% temporality. In addition, the latest labour reforms have proved to be totally ineffective. I'll give you another piece of information. Today in our country nine out of ten new contracts are temporary. The only way to encourage indefinite recruitment, and therefore stable employment, is by giving cause to temporary recruitment, not only by subsidizing companies to enter into indefinite contracts when they have also reduced compensation for dismissal. It is not wrong to help entrepreneurs, but the best way to do this and at the same time to promote stable jobs is not to get out of the joke another form of bonus, but to make countercyclical policies that allow the economy to grow, families to consume again and businesses and entrepreneurs to re-produce and sell. At this point, I would like to ask you a very simple question. Who do you govern for, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? For IBEX 35 and for entrepreneurs such as Mr Roig, President of Mercadona, or Amancio Ortega, owner of Inditex? Or for the self-employed, for SMEs and for workers who do not arrive at the end of the month? You have to choose. The proposal presented to us today also has dire consequences for the Social Security Fund. At a time when the Reserve Fund of our public pension system is not going to give up even for this year's Christmas extra payment and when, according to Airef, the Social Security Fund is expected to have a deficit of EUR 20 billion by the end of this year, what you propose is to reduce income for Social Security. So all we're going to get is that public pensions are not sustainable; that's right, you're going to get your goal, that pensions are a business for big companies and big banks in our country. [[Applauds]] What they propose to us today, as I said, is totally irresponsible and will only lead us to remain the café of Europe. In order to encourage indefinite recruitment, I propose a number of measures, such as reforming article 15 of the Workers'Statute; abolishing precarious contracts, which are now the most worn and which have increased by more than 100 per cent, such as one-week or one-day contracts; establishing the nullity of fraudulent terminations of temporary contracts; abolishing the contract of entrepreneurs, as was already done at the end of the 1990s with the new activity launch contract, and initiating as soon as possible an amendment to the Law on Offences and Penalties in the Social Order to adapt it to the new reality and to increase the human resources and material resources of the Labour Inspectorate. In short, Mr President, I should like to conclude by saying that you have one thing to say: this proposal does not help workers and does not create stability or improve the labour rights of workers in our country; this measure normalizes precariousness. And be clear another thing, from my parliamentary group we will do everything in our power to avoid it; we will vote not today on your proposal; we will vote not today and always; we will vote not to build our country on the basis of the social cemetery that you have created. Undefined employment is fostered by putting barriers to precariousness and governing for people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u97	Thank you very much, Mrs. Franco. The Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u98	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Mr. President. Really, when I read this non-law proposal I had to reread it to be sure of what I saw and it was hard for me to realize because, in principle, I thought it wasn't too serious and it seemed more like a joke. Because such a joke could be taken calmly that the party of the Government would suggest to the House measures to promote the conversion into indefinite not some different types of recruitment that exist and that have been created with different reforms, but that which is generically defined as a new contract, without specifying what it is talking about at the time. I even thought that the proposal, if it had been made seriously, could be treated as a genuine gallimacy or legal error, because it is not possible to draw another conclusion from its reading when it can be seen that in its first measure it speaks of exemptions for new indefinite contracts and in the second it speaks of bonuses, when it comes to converting temporary contracts into indefinite ones. [[Rumors]] And not only because of the high degree of confusion about what you really want, but also because the use of that mechanism - that of bonuses - is already put aside even
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u99	Wait a minute, Mr. Barandiaran. Please, the next time, I'll ask without favor. The afternoon is certainly very intense, but the only thing he gets is to talk about anything less than what matters, which is the speaker's intervention. So please - it will be the last time you ask please - I beg you silence. Thank you very much. Go on, Mr. Barandiaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u100	He said that the proposal as such presented a high degree of confusion, among other things, because the use of such a mechanism has already been described not only as an unrecommendated use but also devalued by the experts who have appeared in the Toledo Pact Commission, who have even highlighted the very limited or no effectiveness of such measures, apart from the deterioration that such a mechanism produces in the public era and in social security. We have seen this, for example, this morning in the Committee on Employment and Social Security when we talk about certain figures. For example, we saw one in particular that was the contract for training and learning. The consequences of this type of practice have been 180 million for the social security coffers, with little consequence that only 2 % of the agreed contracts have become indefinite; that is - to be said - compared to Germany, where the percentage of apprentices remaining in the company is 57 %. We also saw that, apart from being employment aid, they must also be understood in the field of active policies and, therefore, they are the competence - in the case of Euskadi - of the autonomous community, but by selecting precisely those sectors in which such deductions are worthwhile. To make contracts that have so far, and by virtue of labour reform, been drawn up as temporary can only be a consequence of a certain culture of labour relations in which the contract of employment is causalized and, therefore, its completion or continuation is subject to such rigour and analysis and not to good practices on account of the public sector, which, I repeat, have been expressly discouraged by the experts, moreover, by inefficient and costly. That is why I know, gentlemen of the People's Party - if I may be listened to - that the proposal does not mean that. That's right, what I'm not sure about is what you mean. What is even more striking is that, since there is such a large number of different forms of temporary recruitment, as little effective as we have seen and for which, in recent times, bonuses, reductions, exemptions or any other formula as unimaginative as that we all pay the price of a policy of contracts of genuine schizophrenia have been associated, all we have to ask ourselves is what this initiative is for. And we ask ourselves the question above all after having seen SEPE's page, because perhaps it is to deal with the consequences of the nothing less than thirty varieties of temporary contract referred to in the page of the Public State Employment Service, to the four of training or to the three of contracts in practice, precisely to turn them into one of the seventeen types of indefinite contracts referred to by the same institution when describing the models of different clauses applicable to all of them. This makes us think that, in principle, they just wanted to remind us that all this variety of temporary contracts is an undesirable consequence that was intended to be corrected. But for that they already have a way, that of modifying or repealing labour reform in order to bring it, in fact, into line with the needs of both the labour market and workers' rights. Therefore, we understand that this is not a good way, that this is not the way. I want to keep thinking that it is a mistake or a joke because a party that is considered serious - and I think it is - and that has at its sole hand all the direct or indirect mechanisms to correct that undesirable consequence of labour reform, would not do this. That is why we want to give it an opportunity but to correct it, and that is why we will vote against this non-legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u101	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u102	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. The truth is that I was surprised to see the title of this non-law proposal of the People's Party. The party of precariousness presents us with a non-legislative proposal to enhance indefinite recruitment. I quickly said to myself: where is the trap? I was surprised that, although timidly, he proposed some correction to his employment failure over the past five years, but, once again, in the explanatory statement they already show his incompetence or bad faith. They say so, without any redundancy: In December 2011, when the People's Party came to the government, the rigidity of our labour market led us to a massive destruction of jobs. But if the labour market was so rigid, how can jobs be massively destroyed? First question. Excuse me. They bring us a new ideological PNL, a new gift to the most rancid employer. They return to walks, carrying the sacrifices of economic and employment policies on the backs of workers, workers and self-employed people. It is a measure that seeks to lower the cost of work further. I was told by a veteran colleague of the workers' movement, Juan Miguel - whom I very much appreciate - and some colleagues also from Tarragona - very rightly, as always - that this measure basically makes the workers themselves, their wages and their rights and, in particular, the rights of Social Security and our system of distribution responsible for unemployment. Wise, Juan Miguel. The proposal is a new missile to solidarity between generations of workers contributing to social security. Once again, their incompetence and imagination are exhausted in exceptions and more exceptions, bonuses and more bonuses to Social Security; that is, in taking away our deferred salary and emptying the Social Security box of money to use it in a supposed economic recovery. And I say it is supposed to be economic improvement because we have never seen any serious study, either here in the Employment Committee or in the Toledo Pact, showing the causality between subsidies and exemptions from social security and job creation, and much less indefinite. What I have heard with concern is that the sustainability of the pension system five years after you came to power is unsustainable and insufficient. These five years of People's Party government have led us to be spectators of how the pension hut was being emptied at a dizzying pace; we do know that. But you continue as if you have an absolute majority, putting forward proposals that do not even await the recommendations of the Toledo Pact on social security bonuses - then you will talk about dialogue - because you know that many of the experts who have appeared have severely questioned your policy of bonuses. If there is no fixed, stable and quality work you can already give the money to the great employer who will continue to collect his failures in the management of Social Security and in decent employment. Yes, we already know the song that first you have to have a job and then it will become a quality job, making again a false causal relationship, because it has to be so or it may not be so. In any case, they say that the data believe that we have overcome two major challenges: that of curbing the mass destruction of employment - perhaps we had already reached the bottom - and they continue to say - and here comes the worst - we have consolidated the labour market. Heavens, what they have said!, would say the great Forges. What has been consolidated is an economy based on precariousness, temporality, taking or leaving it with unacceptable figures of submerged economy, etc. This is what has been consolidated. We would have liked some more interesting measure, such as the significant increase in labour inspectors to combat false self-employed people or direct social security fraud, but that never touches; in fact, we have the same labour inspectors today as in 2009, better said, we have two more throughout the Kingdom of Spain. Do you not realize that most temporary contracts are not because there are no subsidies or bonuses, but because the entrepreneurship and policies of the last governments have not opted for a productive or distributive model? From our point of view, the government's policy is in favour of entrepreneurs, but even if it was necessary to subsidize entrepreneurs, we think that this should be financed by general taxes and never from social security contributions, because these contributions are to finance social benefits. For this reason, we will vote that we do not continue to empty the social security box and further endanger its sustainability and sufficiency. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs González Bayo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u104	Good afternoon. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr Echaniz is bringing us here today under the pompous title of 'powering indefinite recruitment', more flat rate and more bonuses for converting temporary contracts into indefinite contracts, the only active policy that you seem to know how to do. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u105	Wait a minute, Mrs. Gonzalez. Silence, ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u106	A flat rate that, as we have been constantly insisting, means a saving for the employer who is paid with the pensioners' money because it deviates from the social security coffers. [[Applauds]] As always, Mr Echaniz, that is your policy: a free bar for entrepreneurs at the expense of the most disadvantaged, pensioners, to whom you have told them that they cannot be revalued more than 0.25 - which amounts to about one euro for the majority of Spanish pensioners - and that they are having a constant loss of purchasing power of 2.75, which would mean about 20 euros more per month for the majority of pensioners in this country, as inflation has been set at 3%. To this should be added the point of the pharmaceutical copago they imposed. They are now bringing us this initiative, without discriminating, to all indefinite recruitments, ignoring the recommendations of the Toledo Pact and the conclusions of the subcommission that took place in this House, in which they warned, as other honourable Members have said, that such measures were ineffective, which are contracts that employers would end up carrying out. Or do you think that in this country you will never be hired indefinitely? We see that they do not know any other employment policy than to burden the social security coffers. They therefore act against the first recommendation of the Toledo Pact, which states that the separation of sources of funding must be taken into account and that all employment policies and their maintenance must be covered by general taxation, i.e. through the State General Budgets. And they refuse to bring to the Toledo Pact, prior to the social pact, measures to solve the financial balance of the system, caused, among other things, by the income reductions that these policies entail that they like so much of exemptions and flat rates, but never caused by over-expenditure as they want to make citizens believe, and they interfere in continuing to detract resources from the social security system. In the 2016 General State Budgets the reductions amounted to 2.1 billion euros, to which it is necessary to add 3 billion euros in flat rates for self-employed people. Ladies and gentlemen, your policies have contributed to a significant reduction in the revenue of the system, making the year after year continually in deficit without doing anything to correct it; the only thing you have done is to detract money from the Reserve Fund; Reserve Fund that you have squandered in these five years; Reserve Fund from which from September 2012 to December 2016 you have detracted EUR 66,401 million, the same money that there was when you came to the Government. So, Mr Echaniz, once again stop looking like mobile phone companies by giving flat rates and really bet on active employment policies. You should listen to the international bodies, the OECD or the International Monetary Fund, among others, which ask you to bet strongly on active employment policies, policies to boost guidance, to qualify unemployed people, to strengthen public employment services, which have lowered personal strength in all provinces, in Huelva by 20%. And, of course, forget about the autonomous communities, which is the administration closest to the citizens. Finally, if we analyze expenditure on active policies, we see that in 2011, ruling the Socialist Party, there were 39.9 billion euros earmarked for active policies, while if we go to 2016 we see that there were only 25 million euros. Mr. Echaniz, there are 14.9 billion differences; this is to have respect for the people who stand still. We ask him to be responsible and serious, and to bet on active employment policies. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u107	Thank you, Mrs. González. In the turn of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mr Echaniz Salgado whether his group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group has accepted an amendment from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, which incorporated one hundred percent of the text of its amendment into the compromise and has not yet been finally accepted by that group. We therefore call for the vote on our initiative in the original terms. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u109	All right, thank you very much, Mr. Echaniz. At the end of this point, we shall proceed to the vote in three minutes. Thank you very much. [[Pausa. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]] TAKES INTO ACCOUNT THE PROPOSALS OF LAW: [[VOTING]] - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ORGANIC ON THE PROTECTION OF CITIZEN SECURITY AND DEROGATION OF ORGANICAL LAW 4/2015 OF 30 MARCH 2015 ON THE PROTECTION OF CITIZEN SECURITY. [[File number 122/000050]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u110	Let's start the voting. We vote, first, to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the protection of the second citizen and repeal of the Organic Law 4/2015 of 30 March on the protection of citizen security. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 plus 1 telematic vote, 341; 177; 130 plus 1 telematic vote, 131; abstentions, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u111	It is therefore taken into account. [[Applauds]] - OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE REFORM OF ORGANIZATIONAL LAW 4/2015 OF 30 MARCH 2015 ON THE PROTECTION OF CITIZEN SECURITY [[EAJ-PNV]] [[ORGANISATION]] [[File number. 122/000062]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u112	Taking into account the proposed law of the Basque Parliamentary Group amending the Organic Law 4/2015 of 30 March on the protection of citizens' security [[EAJ-PNV]] [[of the United Nations]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 340 plus 1 telematic vote, 341; in favour, 211; against, 129 plus 1 telematic vote, 130.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u113	It shall be taken into consideration. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, in Marea, organ of the United States of America. [[File number. 122/000060]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u114	We then proceed to the consideration of the proposed law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, organic on euthanasia. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 339 votes, plus 1 telematic vote, 340; in favour, 86; against, 131 plus 1 telematic vote, 132; abstentions, 122.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u115	The proposal for a law is rejected or is not taken into account. PROPOSALS NO LAW : [[VOTING]] - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in any case, on the establishment of an industrial plan for Navantia, S.A. [[File number 162/000238]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u116	We shall now proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals, as agreed in the course of the debate. First, the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the elaboration of an industrial plan for Navantia, S.A. We will vote on it in the terms of the transactional amendment presented by the Popular, Socialist, Confederal of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Citizens, Mixed and Republican Left Groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 334 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u117	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the power of the right to contract. [[File number. 162/000208]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u118	We then vote for the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on enhancing indefinite recruitment. We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 131 against, 171 abstentions, 37.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-21-CD170321.u119	It's rejected. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was seven and thirty minutes in the afternoon.
