ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, before we resume the sitting, I would like to share with you that a few minutes ago I was aware of the death of José Antonio Alonso Suárez, who was our colleague in the IX Legislature, spokesman for the Socialist Group and Minister for the Government of the Kingdom of Spain. I think I gather the feeling of all of you if I transfer your family members on behalf of the House our most sincere condolences and we give you our tribute from here, keeping a minute of silence. [[This is what the ladies and gentlemen of the House are doing, standing up.]] Thank you very much. Rest in peace. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u2	We renew the session with the item on the consideration of proposals for popular initiative law, in particular the proposal for a law on the establishment of a minimum income provision in the field of social security protection. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has called for the use of the turn in favour. Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am absolutely convinced that our colleague, Toño Alonso, would have followed with great interest, with passion, even with pride, the debate that we are going to hold next. He goes for it, he goes for it, too. [[Applauds]] Allow me first of all to welcome and congratulate the representatives of the unions General Workers' Union and Workers' Commissions, led by their respective secretaries-general, Ignacio Fernández Toxo and Pepe Álvarez, as promoters of the initiative that I have the honour to defend. We shall be discussing this morning, ladies and gentlemen, an initiative of scope, an initiative of great interest. It is important, first of all, because it is a popular legislative initiative, which has no more legitimacy in democratic terms than the rest of the initiatives that we are going to deal with throughout this plenary, which is no more of civil society than the rest of the initiatives discussed here by the Members of this House, which we are all also of civil society, but which is supported by the effort and the hope of no less than 700,000 citizens and fellow citizens of all parts of Spain. It is also a relevant initiative because it comes driven by the two major unions of this country, the Workers' and UGT Commissions, UGT and the Workers' Commissions, two institutions subjected in this time of change to the critical assessment of much of society, such as the political parties and like this Parliament, but two institutions that constitute fundamental pillars in the democratic building, two key institutions to defend workers' rights and, even more, to organize the shared public space according to the values, interests and will of the Spanish people as a whole. It is a relevant initiative, finally, because it calls on the public authorities, it calls on the Government of the nation, it calls on this Parliament for the fulfilment of a basic political obligation, I would say a basic moral obligation, that of fighting poverty, that of doing everything possible to prevent our citizens from falling into the grip of the market economy, of what we call a welfare society. It challenges us to combat exclusion and social marginalization, to provide all our fellow citizens with the resources needed to meet their basic needs. It is an absolutely relevant initiative, which the Socialist Parliamentary Group is going to vote in favour because it is in line with the electoral programme with which we are presenting ourselves at the 2015 and 2016 elections; because it is consistent with a proposal that this plenary has already adopted in a positive and majority way at the initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and, fundamentally, because the Socialist Group agrees with its objective. This initiative, ladies and gentlemen, seeks to fill a serious gap, a serious insufficiency in our public social protection system, highlighted above all in the wake of the economic and social crisis that we have experienced and continue to suffer since 2008. It is a question of creating a last social protection network for those who are unemployed, for those who are unemployed have already exhausted all possible public aid and have no resources to cover their needs and those of their families. It is a minimum income to ensure a dignified life for all our fellow citizens. This is the purpose, a purpose that responds to a double scenario: short-term, on the one hand, and to a large extent structural, on the other. The cyclical scenario is that of the consequences of the economic and social crisis and the unjust management that, in our view, the governments of the People's Party have made of it. Here are the data on unemployment, aggravated, as we have known this morning, in recent times; chronicled for young people and long-term unemployed. There are 1,400,000 households with all their active members unemployed, 700,000 families who do not receive a single income, 6 million poor workers who receive wages below the minimum wage set by this House year by year, 13 million Spaniards below the poverty line, 3.5 million Spaniards in severe poverty, 2 million poor children in our country. It is an unbearable social landscape, which has also coincided with a weakening of our public social protection system, a painful and painful weakening as a result of cuts by the governments of the People's Party, which have abolished some basic aid, such as the subsidy for unemployed people over 52 years of age - abolished directly - and have cut other basic aid, such as the unemployment benefit, which has gone from 70 % in 2011 to 55 % today. The aid of the regional and local authorities, which is always diverse but always reasonable, has also been thinned to cover territorial needs, subject, in any case, during the last few years to a system of austerity-based thinning, draconian deficit control and familial staff replacement rates. As social needs increased in this country, the governments of the People's Party tightened the plugs, removed some aid and cut others. With this initiative, ladies and gentlemen, we have partially corrected this situation of necessity. With this popular legislative initiative proposed to us by the unions we also face a more structural challenge, which has to do with the technological revolution in progress, with the application of robotics to productive processes in this globalized economy. We are told by many analysts and experts that the overall employment balance is going to be negative, that for the first time more jobs are going to be destroyed than new technologies are going to be created. This is a serious problem for a society that has linked income to employment, poverty to lack of employment, the fight against poverty and the fight against unemployment. This, for a society that has made employment a key tool for socialization, is a key problem. What are we going to do in this society if the productive processes, with embedded robotics, tell us more and more production and better production but less employment? Since Social Democracy, we have been talking about sharing working hours, financing with these increases for benefits, through productivity, labour-intensive activities, such as caring for people or preserving the environment, and financing, through taxation, minimum income to cover the basic needs of those left in unemployment. This initiative also serves that purpose. The responses that are being given to these challenges differ according to geographical and ideological latitudes. There are those who defend a wage supplement, from which we suspect for the risk of leading to a kind of simple subsidy to the healer employer with the wages of his workers. There are those who speak of an indiscriminate universal income for all those over the age of eighteen, very, very difficult to finance and completely disconnected from employment. The Socialist Group agrees with the unions in dealing with a formula for a minimum income for unemployed people without resources, who have exhausted all public aid and linked, where possible, to the search for employment. Therefore, we agree with the unions in the diagnosis, we agree with the objective, we agree with the ideological basis of their initiative and we also agree with the practical formula proposed to fit this new benefit into the current public system of social protection: a new non-contributory benefit, as a new subjective right in the field of social security, financed with the general budgets of the State. As access requirements, be an applicant for employment and lack of resources; as an amount, 80% of the Iprem supplemented according to family burdens; as a duration, until the situation of social vulnerability is referred; as a vocation, the commitment to improve employability in order to recover employment, and as a vocation also an institutional pact with which to adapt complementarity, the simultaneity of this non-contributory benefit of the State with the minimum income of insertion that they continue to provide, which they have the right to provide the autonomous communities. This is the practical formula, a good formula, reasonable and that we share. The Socialist Group will supplement these benefits in the course of amendments with a substantial improvement in the coverage and amount of family benefits per dependent child. We are aware, however, that if this initiative has a lot of support, it also has detractors. What are the arguments of the detractors? They tell us about the stimulus to vagrancy... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u4	Quiet. One second, Mr. Simancas. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. The rumor prevents the speaker from speaking quietly. Go ahead, Mr. Simancas.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u5	We are told of a kind of negative effect on incentives to work if this guaranteed income is implemented. This reservation indicates a lack of knowledge about the character of the Spaniards, who will always prefer a job to a grant. But the initiative itself denies this reservation, because it establishes as a requirement to be a job seeker, because it establishes as an obligation to participate in a route of improving employability and seeking employment, and because it also establishes a system of sanctions which punishes, for example, not accepting adequate employment. There is talk of a so-called effect, but the requirements include a prudential period of previous residence and above all the cost. We are told that applying this initiative is very expensive, but expensive, ladies and gentlemen, it is a term, it is an adjective that invites relativization. It's expensive compared to what? Trade unions are talking about €12 billion to rescue 700,000 poor families in our country. To what do we compare those 12 billion euros? Do we compare them with the EUR 40 billion we have dedicated to rescuing speculative banking in trouble? It's not that expensive anymore, is it? Do we compare it with any other figures? Do you know how much we spent on unemployment benefits in 2011, the last year of socialist government? EUR 30 billion. Do you know how much we spent in 2016? EUR 18 billion. How much have we saved on unemployment benefits with more than 4 million unemployed, with more than 2 million long-term unemployed? In this critical situation we have saved exactly EUR 12 billion in the payment of unemployment benefits. Are we going to tell the Spaniards that we have spent 40 billion on rescuing speculative banking and we cannot spend 12 billion on rescuing 700,000 poor families?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Applauds]] , that we have saved EUR 12 billion in unemployment benefit payments?!, that we have saved 12 billion but we cannot dedicate these 12 billion euros as minimum income to meet the basic needs of 700,000 poor families?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Are we gonna tell them that? We don't; we don't. What do you mean you can't afford it? You just don't want to pay! That's the point. They say we can't afford it. We say that what a decent society cannot afford is to have 700,000 families in a situation of absolute social vulnerability as this economy grows at three and a peak percent, as we head the world's billionaire Forbes lists and as we save €12 billion in unemployment benefits. That is what is absolutely difficult to explain and that is what we cannot afford, ladies and gentlemen. The arguments in favour are simple, social justice - it is fair to fight poverty and this initiative succeeds - and effective in economic terms. The most economically efficient societies, ladies and gentlemen, are the most equitable, the most balanced and the most just as well. They think that this €426 in the hands of hundreds of thousands of vulnerable families is a direct injection into consumption, a direct injection into economic activation and employment generation. This is also economic efficiency and democratic stability, ladies and gentlemen. How far do you think we can stretch the rope of inequality? How far do you think you can stretch without breaking the rope of inequality? Think about what Stiglitz, a Nobel Prize in Economics, said four days ago: a socio-economic system that only provides disadvantages to a majority of the population is a socio-economic system that is doomed to instability, to failure, do it for social justice, do it for economic efficiency, do it for democratic stability or do it simply for decency, ladies and gentlemen, because a country's decency is not measured by the stock exchange rate, neither by GDP nor by the EPA, but is measured by how it acts against poverty, by how it acts with determination and effectiveness to prevent our fellow citizens from falling into the grip of social marginality. Do it to have a decent country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u6	Thank you very much. The Joint Group, first and foremost Mrs Oramas González-Moro, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u7	Thank you, Madam President. I want to take advantage of this first moment to have an emotional memory by my friend Toño Alonso, an impeccable man in his professional, political, personal and family life. [[Applauds]] He never had a bad gesture here. He was a man with a wonderful negotiating talent and with whom I learned many things when I joined Congress the Deputies many things. My affection for your friends, your family and your party. [[Applauds]] There is a popular initiative supported by a great many citizens, presented by the unions and important for the debate and I want to announce that the canarian nationalists will support their processing so that a debate can be opened in this country on those families that do not receive any income, on which system we have the autonomous communities, which we are competent in this matter, and on which financial record we have in this country for matters like this one we are talking about. But the canarian nationalists are not toasts to the sun. We are a country in which we in this Congress adopt a dependency law to help one of the most vulnerable sectors of society, such as dependents and their caregivers, and we have not been able to finance the commitments we have made in that law. We are a country where we have non-contributory pensions - in the Canary Islands they are three times more than in the rest - of 360 euros that we have not yet been able to equal the minimum wage. We are a country where health and education are still as they are. That is why our support for inclusion today does not mean that we agree with the content that is being dealt with, especially in competitive areas - we believe that a debate has to be opened in the autonomous communities - and on the financial issue, because we believe that the political priority of this country must go through a system of financing the autonomous communities so that they can finance their social services. We respect the popular initiative and respect its promoters, and in that sense we will vote. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u8	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. We will listen to all the speakers, because the vote of the Union of the Navarro People will be subordinated in this ILP to the demand, in exchange for the provision of these minimum income, to do jobs for the community in the localities where the collectors are. Let us therefore see what debate is opened in this plenary. In any case, I would like to convey to the People's Party that it is not surprising whether the Navarro People's Union is voting differently today or in the future in the different legislative initiatives, of course, because we are two different parties, but above all what has happened this week in the Navarra Foral Community following the meeting of the central government, the Minister of Development, with the outside government of Navarra, in which they reached an agreement to paralyse the high-speed train; yesterday the minister had to fail. That worries us very much and has generated chaos and uncertainty in Navarra society. Therefore, Union del Pueblo Navarro, which is essentially the defence of the Navarros, informs them that it will vote no to the General Budgets of the State unless there is a real change and it returns to the initial project of the high-speed train so that Navarra does not stay outside of the 21st century. For my part nothing more, ladies and gentlemen. We will listen carefully to all of you to decide our vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u10	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. I want to start with a few words from Nelson Mandela that say one thing, in my view, of a lot of common sense. Mandela says: Poverty is not natural, like slavery or apartheid; it is a creation of man and can be eradicated by the actions of human beings, and eradicating it is not an act of charity, it is an act of justice. The actions of governments, of people can change things; we saw it when banks and savings banks were on the verge of collapse and the government's action rescued them: EUR 60 billion, according to the Court of Auditors, 6 points of GDP. In Compromís we have always liked the concept of rescuing people. We have presented ourselves to the elections with that concept and we apply it in our policy of the Government of the Botanic. We are doing this; we are developing actions to rescue people, that is why we have increased scholarships, we have free text books, 22,000 more people have attention to dependency, we have eliminated pharmaceutical co-ops, we have enhanced day care centers and we have allocated 200 million euros to creating jobs for young people. In a true democracy no one should be left behind. A true democracy cannot allow 3.5 million people with severe poverty, with less than 338 euros a month. A true democracy should not allow us to have 15 per cent of the working poor or that the risk of poverty and social exclusion affects three out of ten children or more than 13 million people. I'm done. Rescuing people has to be more than just a concept. The Government of the State can change things with its action - or not with its inaction - in a very simple way: by approving this ILP to establish a minimum income benefit and not by doing as it did in the previous ILP that arrived here, that of the paid allowance, which sent it to a Commission and let it die there. With his approval, as Mandela says, we would be doing a real act of justice, we would really be rescuing people. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u12	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Campuzano i Canadés.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u13	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to begin by conveying to the Socialist Group our condolences on the death of José Antonio Alonso. All the colleagues of the former Convergence i Unió Democrática who shared with him seat and work always had an excellent relationship and, beyond a good politician, always considered him a good person. We transferred our most meaningful embrace from the Democratic Party of Catalonia. We also welcome the representatives of the trade union organisations promoting this initiative. We had the opportunity to hear their arguments a few days ago in the Employment Committee of the Congress of Deputies and we agree on a central element of the position that justifies this popular legislative initiative, and it is that during these years of the crisis the system of protection against unemployment has been unable to guarantee the necessary coverage in the face of long-term unemployment. The decrease in the coverage rate and the increase in care benefits are the expression of this inability to cover the unemployment protection system. At the same time, for the autonomous communities, through their minimum income systems, and for municipalities, through their social service systems, it is obliged to deal with the social emergency. And what can be done from the municipal level and from the autonomous level, at least in our case, in Catalonia, in a country that has the funding of the common system, is to alleviate a situation; it cannot be claimed the services that cover those needs. We therefore need a minimum income benefit aimed at covering long-term unemployment; we also need that benefit to be linked to employment and training, and we need that benefit also to be managed by the autonomous communities as part of the link between passive and active policies. The Members of the Democratic Party are in favour of this philosophy and we will therefore support this consideration, convinced that there is no violation of autonomous competences. On the contrary, we move on to a logic of cooperation between Social Security and the Autonomous Communities that will be useful in dealing with a situation as harsh as that which we have been through these years. They count on our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u14	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u15	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, Mr Fernández Toxo and Mr Álvarez, representing the UGT trade unions and the Workers' Commissions, and also the 750,000 people who endorse this bill, which certainly deserves not only our attention but also our consideration. The ILP, as such, has a foundation that it is inescapable to address at parliamentary level, since, as it points out, it seeks to secure the income necessary to ensure the basic needs of people who are willing to work but who lack employment and economic resources. First of all, as a first reflection, this is a central element of a tuitive action on the part of the State which we must not overlook and which, regardless of what I will then comment on the competition titles that may have been exercised, cannot but be addressed, fundamentally - Mr Simancas has reflected this very well - because it affects a basic question of the welfare state, which is the disappearance of inequalities. Only for this reason would it be worth paying attention to this proposal for a law. Go ahead, too, for a second thought. The bill has a specific content that is based on article 149.1.17.a, which transfers to the social security field certain assistance to that social sphere that is currently helpless. In our case, this second reflection goes hand in hand with a competitive debate, that of the existence of a performance model and also of assistance that coincides in the Basque Country with the material sphere that is intended to be addressed, at least in part and with that initial vocation, since then we will talk about the universalization of this idea and the limitation that occurs in the legal text. I say that it largely coincides with a successful practice that many of you have recognised with regard to the Basque Country: income guarantee income. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a substantial aspect, since in the context of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, the exercise of these tuitive activities by the public administrations, in order to avoid these elements of inequality, takes place under article 148.1.20.a of the Constitution and article 12.2 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country. We must warn, ladies and gentlemen, that, at least, there is a overlap with this, and we are very much afraid that a certain distortion of the competitive title which the Basque Country has assumed as such, on which we will, with all due respect, make use of our opinion in the relevant Commission, because we believe that it is worth maintaining, first, the existence of this benefit and, secondly, to do so in the area closest to the citizen, who, on the other hand, is the one that will produce the greatest guarantee of success. I wanted to point this out because in the case of the Basque Country it is not only an experience of success, but also an experience that has led to the elimination of important terms of inequality, so much so that in the Arope index, which points to inequalities in the social sphere, it is precisely the autonomous communities of the Basque Country and Navarre that invest the most in the so-called RGI and are those that, not only in the State but also in the European sphere, appear in the furthest place in terms of comparative inequality. We want to warn of this situation for a simple reason: if in some way we are occupying a material field in which we operate successfully under the competence title of social assistance, it seems that by distorting and transferring it to the field of social security in some way we are bringing it closer to the sphere of the State and moving it away from that of the basic administrations, those who know better the social reality of each place. So, ladies and gentlemen, we'd like to... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u16	One second, Your Honor. Quiet to the rest, please. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u17	He said that we would like that element to be taken into account at the time. In this case, we must demand the application of such an elementary principle as subsidiarity, the recognition by local administrations of knowledge through their social services of the necessary assistance elements, and the finding that this has been a successful experience in our case or at least well valued. Finally, I would like to point out that, while the model in principle was intended to be universal, it becomes only an element of unemployment. It becomes - in a flat way - a kind of third benefit in the field of social security, other than the contribution and assistance unemployment benefits that currently exist. This leads us to another assessment or to another criticism, if one prefers, that with this characterization it must be understood as a social security benefit in the field of employment policies not already active, but passive employment policies. They again overlap material areas of success within the framework of Social Security with the non-contributory field, in this case, and what they do in some way is legitimize an old claim that has been sustained from the Basque Country: the interrelationship between active and passive employment policies, as Mr Campuzano has just recalled a moment ago from this very rostrum. This leads us to recall an old claim by the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country that is updated with this design, because if we are to manage this third benefit under the social security field and characterize it in principle as a supply of passive employment policies, which in turn is connected with active employment policies that have been properly developed within the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, it is not only legitimate but necessary and materially effective to point out - if this legal construction materializes - the immediate transfer, at least within the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, so that its success can be managed to a certain extent. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, apart from many other considerations that we could make about its articulation, we wanted to make at least a positive reading of the text in the sense that it provides solutions to situations of inequality, situations that certainly occur with different degrees of intensity in different places of the State. It would also provide, where appropriate, a competitive solution to certain debates which we consider to be useless and sterile today and which could be effective if such competition were recognised at least to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. In any case, this criticism serves as a contribution to the debate, a debate which we believe should be reproduced in the relevant Commission and approved at this parliamentary seat. I would therefore point out, ladies and gentlemen, that our parliamentary group, the Basque Parliamentary Group, is going to vote in favour of this initiative, which we hope can be debated regardless of the final outcome. [[EAJ-PNV]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u18	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. Welcome, comrades of the trade union organizations Workers Commissions and UGT, Ignacio Fernández Toxo and José María Álvarez. Very welcome. We sincerely thank the unions Workers and UGT Commissions, UGT and Workers Commissions, the popular legislative initiative that presented us already on January 19, an ILP endorsed by about 700,000 signatures. We also thank the thousands of workers' activists who spent their time explaining and collecting signatures so that today we take into account the proposed law of a minimum income benefit for the unemployed who have exhausted their benefit and whose income is less than 75% of the interprofessional minimum wage - that is, about 5,837 euros -, being their amount of 426 euros. It is an initiative that we hope will have the majority of the votes in favour today. Our vote will be in favour. In fact, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya has already proposed similar initiatives several times since 2004 and they have all been laid down; today it seems that we can win. Our vote will be in favour of this proposal for a law for different reasons. The first, because it is a popular legislative initiative, that is, it is endorsed by hundreds of thousands of people who have signed and asked us to legislate on a social problem that is unreplaceable. Thus, it is only because it is a popular legislative initiative that we deserve the utmost respect and support for it to be processed and discussed. In addition, we share the diagnosis made by trade union organizations about the dramatic situation that hundreds of thousands of people in the Kingdom of Spain are going through, for which they do not enter or be able to leave social exclusion, apart from many other political questions, depends on the fact that a law of the characteristics proposed today by the promoters will come to pass. We also agree that we need a new social benefit, because we know that minimum income is not the solution to the problem of poverty and social exclusion of millions of people. The problems of poverty clearly have their causes in the economic policies developed in recent years by the last Governments and their famous economic reforms and socio-laboral reforms. We have to move from speeches to votes. The most important thing for the Republican Left of Catalonia is to attack the causes of poverty, unemployment and precariousness. As long as we attack those causes, as long as these harmful economic policies are not changed, and it seems that in the Kingdom of Spain there is no progressive majority to do so, in the meantime, any measure intended to alleviate such suffering will have our support always, always and always. According to the latest EPA, households with all their active members without income affect nearly 1,400,000 people, who need immediate solutions and palliative benefits. In the meantime, the real solutions don't come. The crises caused by the financial system and its political accomplices by both active and passive, labour reforms, have left a sign of monumental precariousness, leading to an increase in levels of inequality to place about 30% of the Spanish population at risk of poverty and social exclusion, 30% who need solutions and palliative benefits while the real solutions do not arrive. The current social protection instruments are not enough to protect all citizens who are in a precarious situation. Firstly, the social protection system must be completely revised. An example of what we are saying would be the Iprem, the index used in the Kingdom of Spain as a reference for the granting of State aid, communities and municipalities in terms of scholarships, subsidies or unemployment benefit, among others, which has been completely out of date. This index, born in 2004 to replace the interprofessional minimum wage as a reference for these aids, was a very hard blow for the working classes that we still pay, because the Iprem has been growing at a much lower rate than the interprofessional minimum wage, thus restricting access to aid for the most disadvantaged family economies, and on top of that it has been frozen for more than seven years. Consequences: more poverty and more social exclusion, because we are losing social protection, among many other rights that we have to recover, and we have to put our batteries on if we want to achieve it. Secondly, because, as we have said and have said by the promoters of the bill, a new benefit is needed for all those who have practically nothing, and that reality is for us a political and social justice obligation that we must solve and alleviate. We are required to expand and complete social protection and economic security systems to ensure that no individual has a minimum income for living. As I said in the Commission, a State, a Government, a congress that does not solve the problem of decent work and does not protect those who remain outside the economic and social system, or are a bad government for the majority, or is an ineffective democracy, or the economic and social system in which we are immersed does not apply. There's no more, as I see it. That is why we must answer the key questions. What protection should be given to persons who have exhausted all their social benefits and do not have any recourse? What protection should be given to those workers who are in the legal situation of unemployment but to whom the current design of the benefit does not allow them access to any kind of income? Well, thanks to this popular legislative initiative, today we have the opportunity to have a bill that in the parliamentary process will have to remove all the obstacles, be they competitive, budgetary, legal, etc., because on us depends the present and future of 1,80,000 households whose per capita income is less than 5,837 euros per year. It is up to us to comply with a basic principle of human rights, such as that of doing everything possible to ensure that everyone can have a decent life, that people who have exhausted unemployment benefits enjoy social protection. And I leave it here because we will have time for the debate in the form of a law, if it is taken into consideration - we hope so - to discuss whether it should be a basic income, a minimum income or an indefinite unemployment insurance. However, that basic income is not like a palliative of social control, but simply a tool of protection, not to accompany this neoliberal wave that is throwing so many people into poverty. That is why we must not forget that it is essential to unite efforts in this House to recover the social, labour and civil rights that have taken away from us in recent years and that we continue to lose with this great coalition in the shadow that has allowed and allows this Government and its policies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u20	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u21	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law brought here by the PSOE by the trade unions, who are also here today and whom I welcome, addresses the issue of minimum incomes, which is also a result of a popular legislative initiative. The theoretical debate on basic income raised by philosopher Philippe van Parijs is a very interesting debate. Van Parijs said: You must be entitled to a universal rent, regardless of whether you spend your life surfing on the beaches of Santa Barbara or Santa Monica or if you are working fourteen hours at the play. It is an intellectually interesting debate, as I say, which can be addressed. We can start, in fact, with a universal basic income proposal that has then, over time, evolved and that has been altering in its multiple programmes and reducing in size because it has understood that there is a budgetary restriction and that modern economies, in order to function in Europe, need to assume a number of restrictions. Even Mr Errejón the other day was talking about proposing a salary supplement like that of Citizens. If you follow that path, you will probably end up also being IBEX 35, as Citizens. I am concerned, speaking a little more seriously, that the PSOE, which is a moderate, focused and progressive party, will bring to this House proposals that, although they may sound very good, you know quite well that cannot be paid, that cannot be financed in the present context. I honestly believe, Mr Simancas, that it is bad news that the PSOE chooses to pummel itself and to make promises that cannot be fulfilled. I believe that you must be in the field of governance, of possible policies, of viable policies that really change people's lives, and not in the smoke promises made by the Party of Podemos. [[Applauds]] In fact, it is precisely the policies that cannot be fulfilled that generate disaffection, those that generate distrust in politicians and those that end up generating a perfect breeding stock for populism to emerge. I believe that we in the world already have enough populism and also in the proposals and policies proposed in this House. I would say that minimum incomes have essentially three problems. The first, as I said, is about money, the second is about incentives and the third, and perhaps more importantly, is about concept. The proposal brought here by the PSOE amounts to between 12,000 and 15 billion, according to the calculations, and gives the chance that this figure is exactly the adjustment that we need to make this year to move from 4.6 to 3.1, but in the opposite direction. Therefore, the PSOE would have to explain, if it treats citizens as adults, how it intends to finance this measure. What do you prefer, to raise taxes, as the People's Party recently did? Which one? VAT? Up the VAT to 25%? Up the IRPF? Or do they perhaps prefer to make social cuts, as the People's Party has been doing in recent years to finance that, essentially in education and health? As you also do not want to cut back on parliaments, on duplicities and on bureaucracy in this country, you will have to explain how to finance it. There's one more alternative. You can decide to do absolutely nothing, and then it happens as in Greece, that you lose the confidence of those who are financing you the debt, you fire the debt and you end up spending the money you wanted to spend on hospitals and schools to pay the interest on the debt. [[Applauds]] As I said, the second problem with minimum income is incentives. If I have limited resources, what do I prefer to do to improve people's lives, use them to create policies that really work, that really are training, that really accompany the unemployed to get out of the hole, or do I just want to pay them and wait for them to get out of the hole? I, Mr Simancas, tell you in advance, I prefer to offer you opportunities that you pay; opportunities through good public policies, good active policies and reintegration income, as comes in our agreement with the PSOE and the People's Party, so that people can truly develop a decent life. And I'm telling you with all honesty. I think people who are in a situation of vulnerability and poverty also want opportunities and not income. I really think about it. The third reason why I believe that minimum income is not a good idea of substance is basically political. This debate reflects a different vision of the society we want. Partly you, with these kinds of policies, you offer a rent society and I want a society of opportunities. In my opinion, the minimum income is anti-liberal and anti-progressive. We, I insist, prefer opportunities and progress to the creation of rent- and dependence-based societies. I want a society in which citizens can access quality education, regardless of where they were born. Today in Spain you have a ten times greater chance of repeating course if you come from a disadvantaged family than if you did not. In all the negotiations that I have had with the Socialist Party and in the discussions that we have had, I have not yet heard any innovative policy to expand opportunities in education and make profound changes that will allow more people to access education and thus develop a future life with more opportunities. I want a society in which training courses really serve to change and to have a hope of finding a job. Today there are more than a million people who have been out of work for four years, the rates of reintegration of the long-term unemployed are absolutely ridiculous and the active policies cost us Spanish €7 billion a year. Why doesn't the PSOE focus on improving these active policies, where there's so much money, and turning them into profiling and orientation routes for the long-term unemployed so that they can have a chance in life, instead of offering them a minimum income? I will answer you: it gives me the feeling that it is easier, when you have backpacks, promise minimum rents, that are free - you come here, promise, sounds very good - and that it is much harder to be ambitious and brave and want to reform things using the money we have. I don't think the millions of young unemployed in this country are waiting for you to give them a minimum income. What they want is to get a job and end the dual system that has them permanently blocked in the labour market. I want a society that leaves no one behind, and that is why I believe in viable policies that offer effective exits from unemployment and that do not perpetuate poverty traps. And as I want real changes, business, I talk to the other parties and try to get deals. We have done this to change the lives of the most vulnerable, we have managed - it is a pity that the Minister of Employment is not here today - to agree on a wage supplement for young people, paragraph 61 of the agreement. And if you allow there to be a budget, it will be implemented and will change the lives of hundreds of thousands of young people in this country. We have also managed to agree on a six-month extension of the Employment Activation Programme - point 42 of the agreement - with much more resources, which will basically be allocated to the people for whom you are proposing this income, but with a good activation policy, with a profile, with a guidance system that allows reengagement. In short, Mr Simancas, I understand and share your concern, but I think you propose a bad solution. We have to be here to put forward policies that offer a lever to get out of poverty and that do not perpetuate poverty traps. I therefore anticipate that our party will vote against the consideration, simply because we believe that this policy is not viable. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u22	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr González García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u23	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the trade unions and the 700,000 signatories who have brought this popular legislative initiative to Congress. It is noted that when the people participate in the drafting of legislation, there are no laws to rescue banks, but there are laws to rescue people, and that is appreciated. It is an ILP that can serve to guarantee a minimum income to 1,330,000 people who still live in households with no income at all and who seek to bridge, albeit minimally, the gap that leaves five years of the social apisonadora of the People's Party. But this gap we've been dragging from before. It is curious to see here the Socialist Party making a horrific speech in the face of this high inequality and poverty when it has been complicit in many cases in the high rates of poverty and inequality in this country. To show a button, the case of Andalusia, where the Arope index is 10% above the average of the rest of the state. In Spain there are already 1,700,000 long-term unemployed, a figure that is 600 % higher than we had in 2007. This crazy increase has no precedent anywhere else in the European Union and, in the absence of another system that guarantees minimum income, it triggers inequality and the population at risk of poverty. This government has remembered itself as the one that put us at the head of Europe in the shameful rankings of poverty and inequality. The crisis in its management has led to a regressive redistribution of income. While 10% of the poorest families have seen their average income drop from 2007 to 800 euros, 10% of the richest have seen it increase by 2,500 euros during this period. If we could include 1% of the richest in this chart, there wouldn't be room for them to appear, because they wouldn't fit on this sheet. [[Show a chart]] Today Citizens and the People's Party are going to vote here against the treatment of this ILP. The numbers are cold, but this is a meat and bone problem and that's why I wanted to skin you in this surgery. Voting that no to this ILP will not only say that they do not want or hear about fighting poverty and exclusion, they will say that they do not have the right to a minimum income to people like Angela, an Asturian of forty-seven years who, after twenty-five years of working from autonomous sun to sun in a shop, had to close at the beginning of the crisis, and not only now they do not receive any kind of benefit, but they have debts of their time of autonomous and the State does not guarantee a second chance. Voting that they are not going to say that not to Antonio, from Barcelona. In 2012 he closed the company where he worked after thirty-two years and in 2014, at the end of the twenty-four months of unemployment and already with fifty-two years, since the income of his family unit did not reach 75% of the SMI, he applied for the subsidy and was refused because his wife received a salary of 1,150 euros. They had to sell the flat to get ahead. They're going to tell him that not also Sonia, a fifty-six-year-old Ecuadorian, who came to Spain with seventeen, worked and contributed to hospitality by chaining contracts in restaurants on the Costa del Sol and Madrid. Four years ago he ran out of work and now he doesn't receive any kind of benefit. She works without a contract for 350 euros taking care of an old lady. In short, they are going to say that no to 720,000 households that did their homework, that fulfilled their obligations and those that the Administration now leaves at the stand, and they are going to tell them that they will vote not to process this ILP because it diverts us from deficit targets, because it cannot be paid. Let's explain to Sonia, Antonio and Angela that it cannot be paid while a couple of weeks ago we knew through Intermón Oxfam that Amancio Ortega, his daughter and the president of Mercadona, Juan Roig, together, charge the same as all the inhabitants of Catalonia and the Community of Madrid; while yesterday we knew that the joint wealth of the richest two hundred has grown by 60 billion euros in the last two years; while we know that large companies pay 6% of the effective type of companies compared to 17% who end up paying self-employed and income workers; while we know that 90% of tax fraud is concentrated in large companies and fortunes and escapes from the hands of tax authorities for lack of resources in the Tax Agency. Explain to us why you voted not to this ILP and then tell them that you are patriots and that it is we who want to break Spain. No, gentlemen, Spain is already broken and you have broken it with your policies and we have come to sew it. [[Applauds]] Fortunately, today we do not need you to say yes Citizens and the People's Party because, as will be demonstrated again, there should be a sufficient majority here to implement alternative policies, even for a government, if it had not been boosted by the great coalition instigated by Susana Díaz and Javier Fernández. Unfortunately, the PSOE has preferred a great coalition on Tuesdays and an opposition agreed on Thursdays. What is beginning to be dealt with today is a step in the right direction. However, it seems that both PP and PSOE already have plans to obstruct law enforcement. We hope to be wrong, but it seems that they will agree that this law cannot be applied until there are new budgets, budgets that no one knows when they will be presented. We are talking about a measure that costs between 6,000 and 10 billion. They didn't get so picky when they rescued the bank with 60 billion or when they rescued the highways with 5,500. They have been socializing losses and privatizing profits for many years, but society has already come here to ask us to turn the tortilla around. Since it could not be otherwise, we are going to vote in favour of this ILP, but with the clear objective of improving it during its processing, because we believe that coverage needs to be extended and because EUR 426 per month is not enough, as it does not allow it to get out of the poverty line. We propose to increase it until it approaches this threshold, around EUR 660, in order to finally end social exclusion in this country. We are not asking for the moon, we are echoing the recommendations of the European Union on minimum incomes and we propose to extend to the whole state something that is already a reality in the Basque Country. It is only a matter of political will and we hope that there will be in the process of this ILP. Minimum income must be addressed by ethics, because it is essential to guarantee minimum material income, but also by an economic issue, in order to exercise citizenship status. The clear increase in inequality in Spain since the beginning of the internal evaluation strategy stifles domestic demand and makes it no longer attractive to develop innovative sectors, preventing sustainable growth and condemning us to the model of the sun and beach for life. Today's problems cannot be solved with recipes from the past. Gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens - Toni, pay attention -, their leading economists, if they read them, say that wages have to be equal to productivity. However, there has already been a gap between work, productivity and wages. [[Show a chart]] This graph explains it to him. New technologies, as you know, make it possible to produce more with less work. Where has this productivity increase gone? This increase in productivity has gone to high incomes, it has gone to large entrepreneurs. If the trend continues with the advancement of the robotization of industrial activities and also of services, this gap will continue to increase between productivity and employment. Moreover, by dismantling collective bargaining, with the labour reform of both the People's Party and the Socialist Party, which is the tool that allows productivity increases to be spread to workers, this gap will continue to widen. The minimum income ILP, as its own name indicates, is a question of minimums, but the debate that is to be opened in the processing of this law will open the way for debate and reflection in these General Courts on basic income. Heiner Müller said that the first appearance of the new is horror. Do you remember, gentlemen of Citizens and the PP, when they said that we were anti-systems to put forward the horizon of this proposal? What did it look like to you when your friends in Davos and Silicon Valley propose to defend you? In Finland they have already begun to launch it and I think they have not had to put snipers on the border as José Carlos Díez said. [[Applauds]] We will see how the debate is progressing in the rest of the countries, but if we do not adopt it here before, we must transpose it from a European directive. Finally, I would like to remind you that in the 19th century public education and health seemed a utopia and, despite many of you, today are a reality. As Galeano said, utopia is a horizon. You walk two steps, you walk two steps away and the horizon moves up to ten steps further. But what good is utopia? Utopia is good for walking, so let's keep walking. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u24	Thank you very much. Mrs López Ares has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin, we want to convey the condolences of the People's Parliamentary Group to the Socialist Parliamentary Group for the death of their colleague, our colleague, José Antonio Alonso. We would also like to welcome the representatives of the trade unions who have been the promoters of this popular initiative. I would also like to repeat to Mr Simancas something I told him in another intervention on minimum wage: someone from the Socialist Party who left three and a half million unemployed when his government ended must have the courage to talk about inequality and unemployment. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Nor can I fail to highlight those moments of Paco Martínez Soria that we have experienced today, reminding me of certain films of the sixties and seventies that ridiculed economic growth and new technologies and what that brings to the standard of living of people and workers. I recommend you watch some movies from that time. I continue with this initiative. As has already been said, today we are presented with the debate on whether this initiative to guarantee minimum income, namely EUR 426, should continue to be implemented, which can be increased according to family characteristics. Ladies and gentlemen, before this proposal, the first thing we must ask ourselves is whether it is possible, that is, whether this is an acceptable proposal. To this end, we must take into account the potential number of beneficiaries of the benefit and, from that point on, the resources that will be required from State budgets to respond to them. The first thing that would need to be determined is the number of beneficiaries, present and future. The General Workers' Union sets it at 2.1 million, the Labour Commissions figure it at 2.4, estimates of experts raise it to 4 million and could even be between 8 and 10 million people who could meet the requirements, because, ladies and gentlemen, if you read the initiative clearly, you will see that the requirements are not so clear. Ladies and gentlemen, these are estimates at an early stage, as we must not forget the so-called effect that would occur to residents in all Member States where this benefit does not exist. From an economic point of view, how much does it translate? Between the EUR 12 billion set up by the Commissions and the EUR 50 billion set up by other estimates. As I said at the beginning of my speech, is this consumable? As we all know, this House has agreed by a large majority on budgetary stability targets by 2020. Our deficit will not exceed certain percentages of GDP, and this implies that any agreed measure must take into account that the difference between revenue and expenditure of all public administrations will not exceed those percentages. This measure under discussion would, in the less ambitious scenario, incorporate a structural expenditure of EUR 12 billion. I keep asking you, how would this additional expense be covered? There are two possible ways: firstly, to transfer expenditure to other programmes, that is, to reduce items, and then I ask you, what items? Would they reduce pensions, social and promotion services, housing policies, education, health care? Or is it possible that they prefer to reduce transfers to the Autonomous Communities? Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, there is no room for manoeuvre. The items that I have just mentioned to you most about debt interests represent 85% of the state budget and the remaining 15% refers to those infrastructures that we all demand - I also say this to the spokesman for UPN, those infrastructures that we all demand -, to the measures of citizen security, justice, defence, agriculture, economic policies. Ladies and gentlemen, where would you get those EUR 12 billion? The second possibility would be to increase taxes. By quantifying what we are talking about, according to the estimates for corporate tax collection for 2017, if we charged it all to this tax, we would have to increase its collection by more than 47 %. If we did it with the IRPF, in more than 15% and if we did it with VAT we would be talking about almost 18%. That is, in any case, more poverty for families, as it would lower their disposable income, and lower competitiveness for businesses that would result in unemployment. I ask you again, where would you get those $12 billion? What if instead of 12,000 it's 50,000? On the basis of what has been presented, you know what is going to be the meaning of the vote of the People's Parliamentary Group, the vote on this initiative is going to be a responsible vote, because, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot vote on the start of a process that is known from the beginning that is not viable. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know a word and the meaning of that word, which is demagoguery, but I will remember it today in this House: 'Political practice of winning the popular favor with flattery. Degeneration of democracy, which means that politicians, through concessions and praises to the elementary feelings of the citizens, try to obtain or maintain power.' And today, ladies and gentlemen, in this plenary we are witnessing an excellent representation of what the word demagogy means. Or is the Socialist Group's approach not demagogue? When they vote in favour of this initiative today, who votes? The approach of the spokesman who defended this proposal today or the approach of the one called by the new economic guru media of the party, coordinator of the economic proposal in view of the federal congress, Mr Díez? Today we have mentioned this famous intervention in a medium of communication, where it said - and I quote textually - 'If you put a basic income here, you will leave total freedom of entry of people because I suppose those of Morocco, those of Congo and those of Uganda will all come here to have a basic income. If you put in a basic rent or Trump's wall, you'll have to put snipers...'. But we can go beyond that. Mr. Díez posted an entry in his blog on January 8, called Universal Basic Income and the Finnish experiment: impossible in Spain! Mr Gonzalez, do not talk about Finland because you know it is an economic experiment that has been launched with two thousand people to see how it affects behavior. It's not a basic income, it's an experiment from a scientific point of view. So, don't talk about that case, don't set that example, don't argue like you did. But continuing with the entrance of Mr.Díez, it ends as follows: 'A tip, dear reader: The next one who talks to you about universal basic income and Finland and says that you have to do it in Spain, get away from it. Either by political tactics he wants to trick you into voting for him or he's a dreamer away from reality or he has little knowledge of how the economy works.' Following the words of Mr Diez, spokesman for the Socialist Party, where do you stand? Is it placed among those who have little economic knowledge, dreamers away from reality or among scammers in search of votes? [[Applauds]] I put it to you, because we're talking about a partner. Demagogia is what is defended today by the spokespersons of Esquerra, the Democratic Party of Catalonia and PNV. Do you agree with the re-centralisation of a competition? Do you agree that your communities, so jealous not only of the design and management of their competences, but also strong defenders of their right to independence, renounce something that is now their own? What's changed? How is it possible that an autonomous community that has submitted fifty-three challenges to the Constitutional Court within which there is a significant number for violating autonomous competences in the field of social assistance will vote in favour of recentralisation? Ladies and gentlemen, today we have attended a game of demagogy and the People's Party is not going to participate in that game. We, out of respect for the 700,000 people who have signed this popular initiative, are not going to tell you that it is possible something that is absolutely impossible and that should explain to you who designed this initiative. We can talk about the past, about the 2,500 euros of the Zapatero, about the 400 euros that were only paid once, about the famous planE that led us to bankruptcy and unemployment. But the People's Party wants something else. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party will continue to work with the commitment: To reach 20 million people working in 2020. The data from the EPA, today, also tells us: We have 569,800 people working more than a year ago. That's what today's data tells us. I'm done, Madam President. On the way we will continue to accompany all those to whom recovery has not reached. We will continue with the Preparation Plan, the activation income for employment and all social programs that allow fourteen million Spaniards to receive some benefit. That, ladies and gentlemen, is reality, not demagogy. That is what we are asked to do and we must work on it: real solutions to problems and not castles in the air. Thank you very much. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u26	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u27	We then proceed to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, amending Act 15/2015 of 2 July 2015 on Voluntary Jurisdiction. Mr Tremiño Gómez has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, people with disabilities have legal capacity on equal terms with the rest of people and in all aspects of life. This, ladies and gentlemen, which seems obvious, which no one would dare to object to, which no one would doubtless defend the opposite and which is still a pending subject, is and must continue to be the commitment of all of us, of all the Members who are here today. I can say that it is my personal commitment and I can also say that it is the commitment of my political group, of my parliamentary group, because it was - I have said it many times and I repeat it again today - the first political party that entrusted people with disabilities with positions of responsibility both in this Congress and in the autonomous communities, in the municipalities, in the parliaments and in the executive. [[Applauds]] To this day, ladies and gentlemen, it is still the first party with the most people with disabilities among their ranks with positions of responsibility, to this day it remains so. Words, but facts too, ladies and gentlemen. It is our commitment because this is reflected in the Constitution in its article 1, which guarantees the equality of all citizens, and it must be our commitment because the Constitution in article 9 also mandates the public authorities to promote the real and effective conditions of freedom and equality of the individual. As a result of this mandate, the Lysmi, the Law on Social Integration of Disabled Persons, was born on 7 April 1982, today consolidated in the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and their Social Inclusion through the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013, promoted by the Executive of Mariano Rajoy. But this country has often demonstrated its commitment to disability, it has demonstrated it because it was the eighth State in the world to ratify the United Nations International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, since that time, 2008 being the year of binding compliance for all of us and having to adapt all our legislation to that convention. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last five years - I correct, not counting 2016, twenty-four laws, six royal legislative decrees, sixteen royal decrees and a ministerial order, which make a total of forty-seven rules of different rank, have been adopted in the area of disability, the largest enactment and legislative publication in the field of disability since democracy in a government of the People's Party. This data, ladies and gentlemen, gives us notarial faith in our commitment to disability. Among this profuse legislation is the adoption of Law 15/2015 on Voluntary Jurisdiction, which involved concrete measures with the aim of better protecting persons with disabilities. Article 56 of the Civil Code was amended to provide greater protection for persons with disabilities. An adaptation to the convention was made, affecting both the guardianship and guardianship regime and the new terminology in which the use of terms as incapacitated or incapacitated was abandoned and were replaced by the reference to persons whose capacity is modified judicially. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, terminology is very important and is told by a person who in his day was invalid. I have been invalid for many years, then I was very lucky to go from invalid to diminished and then I was even more lucky and I became disabled for many years and other terms that out of respect, Madam President, I will not mention to this House. But it is true that today I am a person with a disability, a person, first of all, like all of you, and with a disability, second of all. It is true that with regard to the amendment of article 56 and its literal content, interpretative problems could be generated, and to avoid them the Circular Resolution of 23 December 2016 of the Directorate-General for Registration and Notaryship, which basically determined that medical advice would be necessary only when the deficiency substantially affected the provision of consent by the contracting party with a disability, was adopted. Nevertheless, despite this circular, the People's Group believes that the law needs to be amended in order to remove possible legal restrictions, thereby once again strengthening the protection of persons with disabilities by establishing in a new wording of article 56 new developments such as prior proof that the capacity requirements are met and that there are no impediments, and above all and more importantly, that the lawyer of the Administration of Justice, the notary or the official may, if he considers it necessary, obtain, from the administrations or, ladies and gentlemen, from the entities of social initiative for the promotion and protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, human, technical or material support that facilitates the issuance, interpretation or reception of consent by the contracting party. And only in the exceptional case that one of the contracting parties presents some condition of health - not of disability; condition of health, here is the difference - that clearly, categorically and substantially can prevent him from giving marriage consent, despite the supportive measures that I have already commented on, would seek medical advice on his fitness to give consent. With this proposal, ladies and gentlemen, we adapt our legal system to the provisions of articles 12 and 23 of the Convention, and most importantly, for what we are all here for, we meet the demand of civil society articulated around disability. Its organizations, the organizations of persons with disabilities, have proposed to the political forces, the legislator and the Government of the nation the amendment of this precept. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment not only clarifies the intention of the legislator, but also eliminates the historical discrimination suffered by people with intellectual disabilities. From now on, all persons with disabilities will be able to enter into marriage without any problem. I say 'patient' and I want to make it clear that people with disabilities don't suffer from disability, we have disability, that's all. But we do suffer and often discrimination and in some cases in that way. Twenty-two years ago I wanted to marry for the Church, ladies and gentlemen, and a few days earlier the vicar general of my diocese called my wife - my girlfriend then - and I and we had an interview. After the interview, he told me that he could not authorize the marriage until he had a certificate that I could consummate the marriage. This happened to me, so I know what it's like to discriminate. If it had happened to me today, I would have told him that if that certificate had asked all the people who are going to marry, but then I shut up, I sought a doctor - Dr. Alberto de Pinto Benito, paraplejist and paraplegic, of the National Hospital of Paraplegics of Toledo - who had to go and talk to the vicar and explain to him that I could perfectly consummate the marriage. That is why, because I have suffered it in my own flesh, I ask everyone to support this legislative amendment without fissure and without delay. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[applause.-Some ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress stand up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u29	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. As Mr Tremiño Gómez rightly pointed out in his eloquent speech, we are faced with the essential, urgent and necessary reform of a law to update and simplify procedures and procedures in those cases where there is no controversy but where the intervention of a judicial body is needed to protect certain rights and interests relating to civil and commercial law. It is a rule adopted only a year and a half ago that has had an adverse effect on the rights of persons with certain disabilities. This initiative of the People's Group encourages the amendment of the Law of Voluntary Jurisdiction to accommodate the requirements relating to the rights of persons with disabilities and uniquely to accommodate the international convention of which Spain is a signatory, although there is no need to avail itself of international treaties because it is a matter of pure democracy and common sense. It is also a proposal that allows the General Courts to respond to the numerous complaints and calls from different civic organizations related to disability, which, after analyzing the reform of the Civil Code and the articles that should come into force in June, found that during that legislative process of 2015 no parliamentary group in Congress or the Senate fell into the account of the palmarial discrimination that implies for disabled persons the requirement of medical advice to process marriage consent in courts, civil registers and notaries. In fact, Cermi, Fiapas and ONCE - to quote some very representative organizations - consider that the law treats blind or deaf people as second-class citizens who need medical consent in order to be able to marry. Thus, what is intended with this consideration goes on the right path to amend the law, removing obstacles and limits to what, if not, would be an obligation in the Civil Registry to require visually and hearing impaired persons to have a medical report to marry. It is a reform that will avoid misunderstandings and interpretations. In fact, in the light of the controversy raised, even the Ministry of Justice a few weeks ago tried to explain the law through a circular stating that the requirement for medical advice only referred to absolutely exceptional cases of disability. Therefore, from the Forum we will support this parliamentary initiative because it promotes a necessary change in the Spanish legal system, adapts the Law of Voluntary Jurisdiction to the requirements of the international convention and applies the most elementary democratic principles, avoiding inequality between Spaniards and eliminating the legal barriers and walls that would prevent persons with disabilities who could represent themselves and have full rights to certain acts. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u31	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, it's a blur and a new account. This is the summary we can make of the proposed law that we are now being brought here, but what we have not seen from the proponent group is that a commitment is issued to stop using if they ever again have an absolute majority - which I hope not - or to use it again as a roller as happened with the approval of Law 15/2015, and from these dusts come these muds. What we have here is a rule, which we are now going to reform, which is contrary to the principle of equality enshrined in article 14 of our Constitution, which is contrary to the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified by Spain in 2008, and, above all - the worst thing that can happen to a rule - is contrary to the common sense; it is also contrary to a principle which has long been established in our right, which is that of the presumption of capacity, and it also confuses the idea of consent with the issue of such consent in disregard of the rights of very many people who are prevented from free access to marriage, another right equally enshrined in our Constitution. The rule that we are now going to reform casts off a tufo to that prepotent ideology of the normality between quotes that is allowed to relegate to the box of tailor of discrimination to those who present some diversity; diversity that, by the way, in the law is qualified as deficiency, as deficient. Of course, we will vote in favour of this consideration because the representatives of persons with disabilities have said publicly that it should be approved. We will do so, but in the future I would beg the People's Party to use it reasonably, please, if it is once again an absolute majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u33	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Ciuro i Buldo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party is going to support the introduction of this bill by the majority group. Let us say yes because what is intended is nothing more than to rectify, to rectify the amendment that was made in article 56 of the Civil Code, which was just in the opposite direction to the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It's been explained here. It is intended - it is reflected in the current article that will come into force, if we do not remedy it before, in June 2017 - to require a medical certificate of suitability for people who have a visual or sensory disability in general. After listening to the various speakers, as well as the explanation from the proponent of the People's Group, I have a question: How many people, ladies and gentlemen, will you not know that they should be required a medical certificate in order to have access to marriage and that they have no apparent disability? These laws must therefore be rectified because they affect people's inequality. From here I would like to thank Cermi, who has been strong and the flag in the struggle to be able to achieve this change. We must support this bill, start the procedure in this House and make it possible that an article that violates, as I say, the rights of persons with disabilities and the international convention will not come into force in June 2017. The Democratic Party would like to delve into another issue which it considers equally unbalanced in relation to rights. Today, people with sensory disabilities need witnesses, for example, to grant a will before a notary, which violates a fundamental right: the right to privacy in order to dispose of the last wishes of a person. At present there are many mechanisms to make these wills, these provisions of last will, accessible, to be reviewed by the grantor without the need for third witnesses to listen to them. We would therefore take advantage of the procedure for amending Article 56 to propose to your ladies and gentlemen, by amendment, that we rectify this need for witnesses when acts of last will are granted to the notary by persons who have some sensory disability. As I said, we will vote on this procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Law of Voluntary Jurisdiction, adopted in July 2015, ending the 10th Legislature, was a paradigm of a way of governing in an era of absolute majority of the People's Party; a way of governing that consisted on many occasions in taking advantage of the regulation of one subject to modify aspects of others unrelated to the main subject matter and that implied a real shortcut that could sometimes be justified by reasons of urgency or by a principle of connection, but not as an ordinary way of legislating. Not only because the in-depth debate on those legal aspects disconnected from the main debate is being stolen, but also because there is genuine legal uncertainty for operators because they are not aware of the reforms carried out, which was only partially and subsequently amended by the version that in practice the Official State Gazette offers us with its consolidated texts. The Law of Voluntary Jurisdiction was amended with its final provisions no less than nineteen laws; it was a true omnibus law. The Civil Code, the Commercial Code, the Civil Prosecution Act and the Civil Registry Act were amended. A law was amended approving an Agreement for State Cooperation with the Federation of Evangelical Religious Entities of Spain and, in the same sense, with the Federation of Jewish Communities of Spain and the Islamic Commission of Spain. The Law on Public Administration Heritage; the Law on Insurance Contract; the Law on Property Protection of Persons with Disabilities and on Amendments to the Civil Code, the Law on Civil Prosecution and Tax Law; the Law on Notarials; the Mortgage Law; the Law on Furniture Mortgages and Non-Displacement of Possession; the Law on Capital Societies; the Law on Equality of Men and Women in the Order of Succession of Nobiliary Titles; the General Law for the Defence of Consumers and Users; the Law on Fees; and a ninth final provision approving the gratuity of notarial and registry records. What happened? Since the amendment of one of the many articles of the Civil Code - ninety-six articles of the Civil Code were amended - a serious error was made that was to equate mental and sensory deficiencies for medical advice on the attitude of consent to marriage and it was also determined that any deficiency of the type of intensity required medical report. This regulation involved a double violation not only of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified by Spain in 2008, and its optional protocol, but also a violation - and this is the most serious - of the dignity of persons with disabilities and their human rights. This violation was certainly addressed by a circular resolution of the Directorate-General for Registration and Notarial Affairs at the end of last year, including the need for medical advice in cases where the deficiency substantially, clearly and categorically affects the provision of consent and where the support measures available to facilitate the interpretation and acceptance of the consent of the contracting parties were not sufficient. In this regard, we have already announced that we will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration. [[The lady]] Finally, I would like to highlight a minor but striking issue. An error was made and intended to be corrected, but in this proposal presented to us there is again an error. It is mentioned that the fourth final provision is amended in its paragraph 5 with respect to Article 58.5 of the Civil Registry Act and is, in fact, paragraph 1 of this fourth final provision. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda Uriarte. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u38	Good morning, President. Deputies, deputies, today we discuss the consideration of the draft law amending two precepts contained in the Law on Voluntary Jurisdiction, Law 15/2015 of 2 July: Article 56 of the Civil Code and Article 58 of the Law on Civil Registration. In this amendment, we should first insist on an important fact that is also a focus on the way we legislate, we will amend two legal provisions that have not yet entered into force, would enter into force on 30 June 2017; that is, we amend two legal provisions that have not been in force. This has happened - it has already been indicated here - because of the fact that it was legislated in the X Legislature, with urgent procedures without double readings, without passing through the Senate. Therefore, that part of the recess of legislative activity that should be to ensure that there are no gags in the laws and that they do not occur - what we are going to discuss here today - involves a violation of fundamental rights. This is really for the record. Anyway, let's take a note. In her appearance at the Constitutional Commission, the Vice-President came to say that there was a need for a recess in the legislative process, which we should legislate more and better. In other words, the People's Party has been called upon to stop in the legislative process because they are in a minority, since if they were in the majority they would continue to legislate as we have been taught they know how to legislate. In any case, the explanatory statement of the draft law now under consideration also refers to the United Nations International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was adopted in 2006 and ratified by the Spanish State in 2008. I will insist on this, the United Nations International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, because it means a new conception of human rights, a different way of reading, understanding and applying them from the perspective of persons with disabilities. It is clear that the wording given to both article 56 of the Civil Code and article 58 of the Civil Registry Act violates fundamental rights, discriminates against persons with disabilities in order to be able to marry, limits personal autonomy, the ability to decide, and, ultimately, does not comply with the obligations imposed by the United Nations International Convention. In the light of what has happened with this law, it should not be forgotten that other laws, such as notarial legislation and some of the articles of the Civil Code, continue to be free. And in the light of what has happened to us, it is no more important to remember that the United Nations International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is law in the Spanish State, it is directly applicable and, as I said, it requires a change of perspective when it comes to legislation from the point of view of disability. Article 1 of the Convention states that its purpose is to promote, protect and ensure the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms for all persons with disabilities, and to promote respect for their inherent dignity as individuals. To this end, the Convention requires the protection of the equality of persons with disabilities as subjects of rights, so as to impose obligations on States that have ratified or ratify it. Article 4 of the Convention lays down general obligations, to adopt legislative, administrative and other measures necessary to give effect to the rights guaranteed by the Convention. In short, the Spanish State must ensure non-discrimination on the grounds of disability. Well, the X Legislature contravened the convention itself and, consequently, the domestic legislation of the Spanish State itself. The convention does not recognize new human rights, it clarifies the obligations and duties of public authorities to ensure that all persons, including persons with disabilities, exercise their rights on an equal footing. Esquerra Republicana defends and claims the importance that for all people, including persons with disabilities, they have autonomy, individual independence, including freedom, and the ability to make their own decisions. The still existing legal framework - the one that establishes the law that we intend to reform today and whose legislative process for its reform we initiate - establishes limitations to this capacity, establishes a presumption of disability. Well, now it's time to change it. The current wording of the draft law is in line with full respect for the United Nations Convention, although it would be good if we also worked, as some other spokesman pointed out, on amending those provisions of the Civil Code which set limits, for example, on the granting of public deed and on testamentary matters, to the possibility of doing so with privacy, without the need for witnesses present who, in the end, limit and in this case violate the rights of persons with disabilities. Left Republican will vote in favour of this initiative. Again, like some speakers in this House, I insist that this is a touch of attention to how to legislate by applying the parliamentary roll and regularly resorting to the urgency procedure, when certain processes and legislative projects require a certain serenity and an analysis of each of the words incorporated in the legal precepts that should then apply. In this case, I repeat, we will vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u39	Thank you very much, Mrs. Capella i Farré. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez Balsera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Tremiño, I should like to congratulate you on your speech, your personal commitment and that of your group to the groups of functional diversity. I am not going to question your personal commitment, but as far as your group's commitment is concerned, I must say that it is quite in contrast to the e-mail we received yesterday and that it contains a press release from the Cermi concerning the meetings held with the Ministry of Justice to address this issue as an arduous negotiation process. In Citizens we know very well what an arduous negotiation process with the People's Group means to reach compromises. I am now referring, of course, to those 150 commitments to improve Spain that we have signed with your group, within which, in particular in the 76, we have gathered demands concerning functional diversity, whose development is a concern for our group, and which, moreover, we have already had the opportunity to put black and white in this House by adopting a GNP, a text that you yourself defended, Mr Tremiño, so that the Government no longer only has the commitment of Citizens to implement these commitments, but now has a mandate from the whole House. [[The Lord]] We will vote in favour of taking into account this proposal for a law of the People's Party, a proposal for a law that comes to reform a reform that has not yet entered into force; that is, an exercise in rectification. It is a correction that we have to welcome and applaud, since if the spirit of the rule was to favour and facilitate the marriage of persons with disabilities, the literal tenor of it implied just the opposite. The wording that the Voluntary Jurisdiction Act gave to this article 56 of the Civil Code, which will enter into force on 30 June if we do not remedy it, requires a medical opinion on the attitude to give consent to those contracting parties affected by mental, intellectual or sensory deficiencies. In other words, the text now proposed for reform presupposed the lack of legal capacity of most persons with disabilities, of virtually all persons with disabilities, with perhaps the exception of motor disability, which seems to be the only one freed from this presumption against legal capacity. By rating it in some way, I will say that the literality of the rule is insultingly paternalistic, so welcome is the rectification that, as has already been shown, the Ministry of Justice has already made through the General Directorate of Records and Notaries, with that circular resolution that lowers the requirement of medical advice to cases where the deficiency substantially affects the provision of consent. This rectification continues to state that, in such cases, the celebrating official may seek the precise human, technical and material means to facilitate the issuance, interpretation and receipt of such consent. The Government justified this circular by referring to the year it had been in office and that parliamentary processing would take time. But this is a circular against the law that is telling the celebrant officials not to apply the law in all their literality because they have not calculated its consequences well, which, if I may, is a deja vu, is a ruling in matrix. We have experienced this a few days ago with the instruction of Minister Montoro concerning the postponements of VAT, with which we see that history repeats itself. So yes, we will vote in favour of eliminating this discrimination. And I say discrimination because the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified and enforced for Spain, reaffirms the legal capacity of persons with disabilities on equal terms with others. And now that we are talking about the convention, I must pause briefly to show how far we are still to comply with it. It has been mentioned here that the Civil Code must be reformed with regard to the restrictions imposed on persons with disabilities to grant wills, when it obliges them to be assisted by two witnesses in a regulation as paternalistic as the one we are dealing with today. Spain is also not fulfilling its commitments to universal accessibility. In December, the legal deadline for all goods and services of public interest to be accessible to persons with disabilities expired. We are far from that goal yet. Ladies and gentlemen, these breaches result in situations of discrimination for persons with disabilities. They should, at least, blush us. There is a lot of legislation pending to adapt not only to the convention but also to European legislation, such as the European Directive on accessibility to websites and mobile applications, which is pending transposition. We must take advantage of the recently acquired legislative nature of the Committee on Integral Disability Policies and work hard. We also have to rethink the processes of disability, we have to rethink the guardianship and the cure. The convention says so when it speaks of legal capacity, urging signatory countries to establish adequate and effective safeguards to prevent abuse of persons with disabilities; safeguards, yes, that will respect the rights, will and preferences of individuals. This means a change of concept and at the same time a great advance. We need to move from institutions that replaced the will of persons with disabilities to support and support institutions in decision-making. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we must promote inclusion and personal autonomy. For all these reasons and in the light of all the tasks that we have pending, my group, the Citizens' Group, has called for the Minister of Health to appear before the Committee on Comprehensive Disability Policies. We understand that it is not acceptable for the Minister to have appeared before the Health Committee and the Equality Committee to explain the main lines of her management and not to do the same with the Comprehensive Disability Policy Committee. I do not want to think that this government does not give the same importance to this Commission as to the others, which certainly deserves it and from Citizens we are going to give it to them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez Balsera. Mr Moya Matas has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u42	Good morning to all of you and to all of you. Good morning, everyone. [[Mr Moya Matas also greets using the sign language]] Abusing the confidence of the excellent stenographers, I would like to thank them that, in addition to collecting the usual reference that the deputy utters a few words in Catalan, they note that the greeting has been pronounced in sign language, whose officiality was established by Law 27/2007, and it is a language that we trust that one day, when we decide to open the constitutional melon, it will also enjoy an express recognition in the constitutional text. [[Applauds]] Mr Tremiño, I have followed your speech carefully and I must say that I support practically every one of the statements you have made, but I would like to make a couple of points. First of all, we have come here to talk about a reform of the Civil Code, not the Canon Code. As you know here we cannot promote any reform of the Canonical Code, which is true that it is profoundly discriminatory, sexist and homophobic, but it is not the case that it brings us here, but we come to promote this amendment of article 56 of the Civil Code, which, as you are well aware, comes from a genuine legislative chasm that was committed in the X Legislature, that legislature where the absolute majority established that the legislator's expertise was not one of the most important values when it came to legislation, and the roller of the absolute majority allowed disguised like this one, which has also exposed the people who have preceded me in the use of the word. And I am not saying coddling in my own name, but also collecting the manifestations of much of the associations of disabled people, which, when this reform of article 56 was enacted, were stupefied by the fact that this text is not really a law of our time. As they even later recognized sources of the Ministry of Justice it was admitted that this reform of article 56, made overnight, was actually little more than a short and sticky pre-constitutional text that unfortunately were endowed with this paternalistic and interventionist character in the private sphere of citizenship, typical of those bad times. We are trying today to amend - I am sure we are going to amend - that this very wrong reform of Article 56 does not come into force on 30 June, as would happen if we did not stop it, because, as those who have already spoken before me have said, this wording of Article 56 is absolutely contrary to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This convention precisely calls for persons with disabilities to be on an equal footing with others, and this article 56 has the absolutely opposite effect, because, let us not be fooled, the requirement of a medical opinion that establishes the person's aptitude, the cognitive capacity to understand marriage consent, to understand what it is to form a family, the requirement to have to go to the doctor so that he or she can tell me whether or not I can marry, is an absolutely intolerable and discriminatory measure, in addition to an attack on persons with sensory disabilities without any doubt. But we also have another serious problem, and it has been said well by the colleague who preceded me in the use of the word; it has been intended to amend this chapuza with another chapuza. An interpretative circular has been published requesting judicial secretaries, notaries, persons in charge of the Civil Registry, officials who process the marriage file, to violate the law, because article 56, which we are amending, stipulates the need for a medical certificate. There is no interpretation possible. The article establishes a commandment. And we find that the official is placed on the brink of knowingly failing to comply with a legal precept, with the consequences it has, or of strictly complying with it by committing this grave attack on the dignity of the people. We will therefore indeed vote in favour of the text of the admission to this reform of Article 56. We are going to defend the absolute repeal of this requirement for people with sensory disabilities, and we are going to propose that it be approached with much more seriousness, with much more depth, with much more humanity also the regulation in the cases of people with intellectual disabilities. Already put - as has also been pointed out above - we are going to propose the elimination of measures that are deeply discriminatory with regard to persons with sensory disabilities in relation to testamentaries. We are in the twenty-first century, and fortunately we have enough technology that allows people with sensory disabilities to act with complete normality, autonomy and confidentiality at the time of shaping their hereditary wills before the notary. By the way we should also consider simplifying the legal language - these are the duties we have in the Committee on Justice - because it is not surprising that people with full cognitive capacity are often very complicated to understand this cryptic and legume language that we tend to use from the legislative and also justice professionals. Let us make it much more understandable and with much more guarantees. I'm going to end up the same way I started, thanking them: thank you very much, and telling them that... [[use sign language]] Thank you. [[Applause.- Members of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party (Christian Democrats) ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u43	Thank you, Mr. Moya. Mr Ruiz i Carbonell has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. First and foremost, let us vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration. We are not going to do it thinking of the group that has proposed it, in its good doing, no; we are going to do it thinking of those to whom this bill is addressed, because there are citizens of our country who, despite what our Constitution says and which Spain ratified in 2008 the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, continue without them, or even some who have seen how their rights - those they already had - were cut thanks to an article glued in the middle of one of the numerous decrees-laws of a People's Party government party that abused them, emergency procedures and their absolute majority, in many cases without just giving explanations. This is one of those cases. No one has yet explained to us - neither today - the reason why it was necessary to introduce in Law 15/2015 of 2 July - as did the PP Government - the requirement, for example, to a deaf person of a medical certificate in order to be able to marry, when the UN Convention - which we have ratified - states in its article 5 that States have an obligation to prohibit any discrimination on the grounds of disability. In its article 12.2 it says that persons with disabilities must have equal legal capacity as the rest of the citizens, and the one I am going to read textually, for the sake of rejuvenating the memory, 23.1.(a) - I think it will be good for all of us, although it is a little long - it says: States will take the necessary measures to put an end to discrimination against persons with disabilities in all matters relating to marriage, family, paternity and personal relations, and to ensure that persons with disabilities are on an equal footing with others, in order to ensure that the right of all persons with disabilities of marriageable age to marry and found a family is recognized, on the basis of free and full consent of future spouses. It would therefore be good for someone to explain to us in the Congress of Deputies - here - the reasons why they introduced into our legislation, and the way in which they did - I repeat - the requirement of a medical certificate - a permit, go - in order to be able to marry people with sensory disabilities. The People's Group could do that. Without going further, his spokesman could have explained it to us today in the Disability Commission - in addition to throwing flowers - since he cannot say that he was informed by the press, since when the law was passed that we want to start today was - I will read - Director General of Disability Support Policies and Director of the Royal Disability Board. But not only have they not explained it here, but it has been months since all this jumped into the media, and neither have they explained it in them. So we'll end up thinking that what they bring us here today is to try to cover up the consequences of a decision whose reasons do not dare to explain - at least in public - aloud, a decision that they imposed on us in their day with that way of ruling so much when they have absolute majority. Because what does not work is what they tell us in their explanatory statement: that the interpretation of the Law - yours - 15/2015 generated doubts about the concept of disability. I mean, what are they telling us? That if we are brought here today this bill is because those of us who do not agree with what they have adopted - the People's Party - and also those who represent the organized disability movement, have made an incorrect interpretation - or as we usually say here - of their unspeakable wording? Socialists, as we said when we were talking about Disability Day in this House, are willing to agree on everything we can for the benefit of people with disabilities. Therefore, even if that were the only reason, we would be willing to give them the benefit of the doubt, in the sense that they have realized that what they approved was a mistake. Even if you let me tell you it's hard for us to believe it a little bit, and I'll see if I can make myself understood. First of all, because after the constitution of the government, and therefore without excuse for it, we warned you publicly before this Christmas, on 21 December, that you would do something to solve the chaff that you alone had provoked. And you rectified? No, no, So after Reyes, and since the Christmas spirit had not touched their hearts, we were forced to present a bill, last January 10, to prevent the humiliation that so many citizens of our country with sensory disabilities could suffer as of June 30. We asked to amend article 56 of the Civil Code in its current wording, which would enter into force, thanks, as we have said to the People's Party Government, from the end of June, and also article 58, paragraph 5, of the Civil Registration Act. We also demanded that the Government bring us a bill within three months to resolve what we are dealing with, legal capacity. Secondly, it is hard for us to believe this, because we only have to use an Internet search engine to find the disqualifications of the People's Party, both in the Socialist Group's press release of 21 December, when we said that this was a big deal, and when we presented our proposal for a law on 10 January. They had quite an impact on their disqualifications - they can be found in any great medium of communication and even in any newspaper of provinces or in any digital newspaper -, with arguments that we can summarize in two: first, that it was not so much what we said, and second, that a circular of the Director General of the Records of the Notary solved possible misinterpretations. Circular dated 23 December 2016, at least forty-eight hours after the Socialist Group's press release; it must have been random. So it's like asking yourself: if it wasn't so much, if it was all an exaggeration of ours, if its circulation fixed everything, why on the first chance they have to be able to present a bill go and present this one? Had we not remained in that it was not so much, that it was an exaggeration, that all this was arranged with its circular? If you continue without explaining why you wanted to demand from people with sensory disabilities the medical certificate - which until today is not required - we will end up thinking - besides that you may lack a certain amount of humility; it has only been necessary to hear today from the spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Commission - that what has happened is that, given above all the reaction of rejection to their position of the entities of the disability world, and since we had tabled a proposal for a law on 10 of this month - I think yours is 23 and ours is 10-, you prefer to back off and bring to this plenary a proposal for a law, before ours, that of the Socialist Group, arrived, presented it a few days earlier and you disqualified it, but you already knew that your consideration would end up being approved, because, among other things, just as you had spoken to the disability world, so do we. It seems to me that in Catalan we would call it putting on the bandage before we had the wound, putting on the bean before the wound. But it's the same for us. The important thing is that the Group of the European People's Party, even if it doesn't say so, corrects, even if it doesn't apologize to the people concerned, without explaining here or in the media why they committed this disguised act, and let me also say that with a certain tuphile to plagiarism of idea: a little bit of Cermi, a little bit of ours. The important thing is that with all this we can contribute to a sector of citizens of our country not feeling humiliated by the Government of the People's Party, by the disguised, by the chaff committed by the People's Party, and feel happier. We are ready to work together, to make it possible to deal quickly with the proposal for a law, and in any case to make amendments to improve the text. How are we not going to be if it is to recover the time lost since the People's Party Government failed to fulfil a mandate approved in this House in 2011, which gave the Government a year to bring the adaptation of our legal system here, and thus comply with article 12 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities with regard to legal capacity. People with disabilities know, they have to know that for all this they can count on the Socialist Group. Thank you for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u46	The next item is the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress on promoting the competitiveness of the Spanish economy through vocational training and quality at work. Mr Echaniz Salgado has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the last decade Spain suffered a severe deterioration in its trade deficit and also an increase in external financing needs. These circumstances, in an environment of increasing openness of the Spanish economy to the outside world and the practical disappearance of the commercial borders, as a result of globalization and the internationalization of the world economy, clearly impacted our current account and capital balances, the net external balance and thus the aggregate growth, and as a result of all this generated major economic imbalances, a fall in investment and consumption, and as a final result - as always happens - a massive destruction of employment. Ladies and gentlemen, the reforms adopted by the Government since 2012 have been gradually correcting imbalances, improving our external balance to make it positive in 2 points of gross domestic product, thanks to the fall in imports, but above all to the increase in exports as a result of the growing competitive pressure on our companies, which has improved their competitive capacity, their external expansion, have been modernised and have also been equipped with higher quality productive instruments. These reforms, ladies and gentlemen, and the efforts of all have allowed us to get out of the recession; but not only that, we have come out of the recession and we also lead growth - we have been growing thirteen consecutive quarters and more than double that of the euro area -. Last week's EPA perfectly draws the 180-degree turn in our country's work landscape. Five out of ten Europeans who leave unemployment are Spanish. [[The lady]] We have gone from destroying 1,500 jobs a day to building 2,300, which means a net daily balance of over 4,000 people. These are the consequences, ladies and gentlemen, of labour reform, which has been very positive for the brutal destruction of employment in previous years, and which has been the catalyst for all this transformation. Today we have two million unemployed people less than in the cent of the crisis. Today there are ten million households with all their members occupied. Today there are half a million households less with all their members unemployed. Today there are 18.5 million occupied, and if we do not jeopardize the reform, ladies and gentlemen, it will be 20 million by 2020. Today the unemployment rate is already at 18.6%, it has fallen 6 points since the beginning of the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, the number of exporting companies in Spain has also grown by 50% over the years; business confidence continues to increase and growth, demand, consumption and financing continue to increase. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is doing its homework well. Spain is one of the countries involved in the interdependence of global value chains. Spain has improved its internal competitiveness, also structural competitiveness, also in prices and costs, has improved its physical capital, the endowment and efficiency of our infrastructures, its regulatory framework, its organizational and management capacity, its innovative capacity and also its technological capital, R & D+i, its integration into world production chains and the factors of its products. But, ladies and gentlemen, where more effort has been made has been in improving human capital, through effort and investment in education and training. But we still have a mismatch between labour supply and demand, a result of the educational and specialization gap in our labour market. It is difficult, ladies and gentlemen, to find certain profiles linked to technology and digitisation, and at the same time some people have difficulties in employability and clearly specify their conversion. We are experiencing a dizzying development that requires Governments and workers to have a permanent capacity to adapt to these changes, to continuously train and specialise. Every day new professions appear and, more importantly, new ways of working appear, and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we need to continue to prepare the labour market for the present challenges. We must continue to lay the foundations for a productive fabric that will enable us to gain in competitiveness, more intense in knowledge, in technological capital and with greater added value, more companies, ladies and gentlemen, larger, more international and better adapted to the challenges of the twenty-first century. Innovation, industry, digital transformation and talent are undoubtedly the basis for today's and tomorrow's jobs. And the challenges are therefore to marry, to adjust demand to the required and also more valued skills, a cross-cutting version, more commercial capacity, teamwork, languages, information and communication technologies with the supply and acquisition of skills, qualifications and competences. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is well aware that there is a direct correlation between the appropriate levels of education and training and employability. We know that very well and that is why the Government is making a continuous effort to adapt to the new realities of the world economy, to improve employability through educational policies, active employment policies, economic policies and sectoral policies in the final analysis. There is a greater demand for integration between theory and professional practice and competence management, to improve skills, skills, skills and attitudes, and vocational training has enormous social and political importance and is one of the keys to the future of our economy. That is why an effort has also been made in recent times, and that is why the People's Parliamentary Group has wanted to present this initiative. The law regulating the vocational training system for the workplace incorporates, ladies and gentlemen, all these objectives with a national dimension, with the cooperation of the administrations and the agents. It is a law that is currently in a process of regulatory development, as the Commission urged the Government at its last session, and we therefore have to persevere in that direction with the national catalogue of professional qualifications, with the National Institute of Qualifications, the Unemployed, and with the training check, the 170 titles and the new qualifications that will be incorporated in the coming times. It is very gratifying that the Conference of Presidents of the last week has taken this recommendation as its own. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. One of the greatest strengths of our country is human capital. Talent has no borders and that is why we must continue to invest in training and investing in talent as the main weapon to improve the competitiveness of our country. The dizzying evolution of the labour market, which is to be accelerated by the technological revolution, requires the capacity to adapt and a society permeable to the new reality. A society committed to the new challenges, and above all a society cohesive in achieving the shared objectives that will ensure the success of something so important. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the right track, but much remains to be done, and today we propose to you with this proposal not to align our efforts and to do so all together. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u48	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Palacín Guarné has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u49	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I must admit that when I first read this non-law proposal, it was not very clear what the People's Party intended with it. It seems to me that it was drafted in order not to compromise, and with a low level of demand, so low that even the proposing group does not urge the Government to take any action. I am fortunate to be part of the Socialist Group, a demanding group which is not in this House to talk about obviations, but to propose solutions to people's problems. That is why we have tabled an amendment to the amendment which seeks to improve the non-legislative proposal of the People's Group. As they say in their initiative it is clear that the economy is growing, 3.4% last year, and that growth is positive, but the socialists do not understand the triumphalist attitudes of some members of the People's Party, and we will not rest until that growth reverses in most Spaniards, especially those who are experiencing the worst. This growth has also been encouraged in recent years by external factors: the price of oil has remained low, interest rates have been at historical minimums and the exchange rate has also helped us in recent years. But the trend is changing: the price of oil rebounds, inflation begins to rise - by 3% annually last January - and if it continues like this, interest rates may start to rebound, and there is no need to explain what this increase in interest rates means for a indebted economy. In order to ensure that growth is permanent and is not based on external temporary factors, the model needs to be changed or at least tried to improve it, betting on sectors of high added value. That is why in our amendment we propose that action should be taken on four basic pillars: to boost investment in research and technological innovation; to boost training so that production processes can be improved; to work on two points which are fundamental, on the one hand, to reduce energy costs, which have a very negative impact on the competitiveness of our companies, and on the other, to work also on reducing logistics costs, and I say this to you that I come from an autonomous community that has made logistics a real engine of development. Our economy must therefore continue to grow, but it must do so by growing better. We also need to be able to integrate young people and long-term unemployed into the labour market, and vocational training must be a basic instrument for this. As they indicate in their initiative it is necessary to push the FP, but let us not deny it, to be able to push it first it is necessary to believe in it. Vocational training must be recognised by society, but also by enterprises, and adapted to the needs of the new production model. We also need to provide it with resources, and if we look at programme 322.B of the State General Budgets and eliminate the chapter of financial assets and Lomce items, we have to cut the budget for vocational training by 26% from 2011 until today. I hope that vocational training can be discussed in the recently created subcommittee on the education pact, and that vocational training can also be promoted there. I would like to give you a practical example of the importance of vocational training. In my city, Monzón, in the province of Huesca, despite being in a rural area, industry accounts for 37% of the gross value added of our economy, and it is largely thanks to vocational training; vocational training provided in two educational centres, which allows workers and young people in our area to be well trained in industrial specialties, and has allowed businesses in the area to grow and many others to settle in our locality, because they have a valuable resource, which is not other than trained workers, and that is also a competitive advantage. But as we are all aware, there are a large number of long-term unemployed people who, if they do not recycle and train, will have it very difficult when it comes to accessing the labour market, and that is why active employment policies have been able to provide them with EUR 13 billion less since 2011. This cut takes place at the worst time, when the unemployed most need greater protection and guarantees for their integration. This has been pointed out to us by various international bodies: OECD, IMF, ILO, which recommended the strengthening of these policies in these years, and the Government has rejected these recommendations, preferring to allocate existing resources to subsidies and subsidies to companies that have been totally ineffective. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to change, we have to stop competing by producing cheaper and we have to start competing by producing better; for this to happen, there must be a strong commitment on the part of the government to education and training, but also to innovation, which must obviously be accompanied by a greater economic effort. Gentlemen of the PP, you have to stop seeing education as an expense and you have to start seeing it as what it is, a personal right and an investment in the collective, because the more our society is formed, the more knowledge our society has, the more competitive the economy that sustains it will be. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u50	Thank you very much. In the course of fixing positions, I have the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u51	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. The proposal is old, it is racy and it also shows that you are not able to present either a new idea or a new policy. In the PNL we can read phrases like bet on the FP, bet on the quality of... So no more, generically, without detail, without proposals. Now, in 2017, you realize that measures are needed to improve competitiveness and boost vocational training, when they have been telling us for five years that they are working to reduce unemployment. How? What have they done? No proposals? Concretely how they are going to bet on quality, concretely how they are going to promote competitiveness and concretely how they are going to dignify vocational training. And now it is when one comes and tells me that the People's Party has created the basic FP. They do not boast of basic FP because it is nothing more than an invention to artificially make up school drop-out data; moreover, this bad invention makes too many young people stand in the way. And although some people don't like it when we suggest that Catalonia be looked at in educational terms, I insist that they do. Look at our FP law, of absolute consensus. Yes, the People's Party - although not listening to me - also voted in favour of FP law in the Parliament of Catalonia; pioneering law that integrates the whole productive system by providing lifelong training, that is, training does not end and is also updated. They also encourage, for example, the dual FP, and for this - I insist - look again at Catalonia, where in just over three years we have gone from 50 companies affiliated to the dual FP Plan to more than 1,000. Another relevant data on dual VET is that 70% of pupils who complete it work nine months after completing it. This is called promoting employment, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and this is indeed a clear bet on the dignity of vocational training. Besides, it's a success. You know why? Because more and more companies are asking us to be part of this dual FP Plan, so you don't need to invent anything, do what has been working for a long time in Catalonia. All this that I am telling you we do in spite of the judicialization of our public representatives, in spite of their frentist policies, in spite of their repeated failures, in spite of the fiscal deficit, in spite of the shameful lack of investment in infrastructure in Catalonia and despite the fact that you maintain a model that invades competences, and I do not say this, say several sentences, not a judgment today, the first is in 1992. For too many years now you have been warned that you are doing things wrong, very wrong; I remind you, for example, of an editorial in the Financial Times, in which you were shocked when, in the midst of the crisis, the Spanish Government decided to cut back on formation, when coherence tells us that we should have done the opposite, to invest in it. Despite all this, despite its constant dirty play, the results support the effort, the rigour and above all the commitment of the Generalitat de Catalunya. I'm done. It is a shame that after five years we are presented with this banana GNP. I'm worried about who gave the OK, because in four minutes I've put forward more proposals than they appear here. In fact, there is not a single concrete proposal here; what seems to be there are good intentions and it will not be the Catalan Democratic Party that blocks it, even if they come from the party that judges me for not thinking like him. We're going to abstain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u52	Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Eskerrik asko. Good morning, egun on. The economic crisis makes the future of the world economy unpredictable and, in addition, it has as its main and worrying consequence the destruction of jobs and the increase in unemployment. In this sense, the general economic situation and that of the labour market in particular directly condition those policies which have the capacity to reverse the current trend towards an economy that creates employment. The need to link education, training and economic activity has therefore been reinforced in recent years. Lack of qualification and training, together with the economic crisis, is one of the causes of unemployment and training is therefore seen as a strategic factor in promoting economic growth and social welfare, strengthening equity, promoting equality and strengthening social cohesion. Preparation for work requires continuous adaptation to the new needs that arise in the environment and this requires that there be continuity between employment and continuing training in working life, so training is the basic pillar of competitiveness for economic development. Globalization, technological and logistical development, unlimited access to information, social changes, automation of productive processes with new types of organization and management and different financing alternatives are circumstances, among others, which have led to great complexity in economic activity. Public policies, therefore, and the growth that is based on it, must take into account the new scenario if they are to be efficient and effective. Having said that, it makes little sense for the party that supports the Government, to which it is addressing, to formulate a non-legislative proposal as an instrument of impetus for the political action of the Government that is so generic, vague and inconcrete. With all due respect, I do not think it is serious for this House and for citizens. It is not wrong to encourage all institutions, agents in general, with common guiding principles that are easy to share, but it does not seem very right to do so without concrete contributions that serve the purpose presented. It should be pointed out that vocational training in the field of employability is an active employment policy, as is the employment policy of the unemployed, and that its development is also part of the education policy which, in our case, is part of the content of the competences assumed by the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. It seems appropriate, therefore, to draw attention to this situation, since, if what is really intended is to collaborate with other actors not only economic and social but also institutional in promoting vocational training as an effective measure of the competitiveness of the economy, I encourage them to stop putting obstacles in the form of resources of unconstitutionality to the exercise of the competences of the Basque institutions and to cooperate in this and other fields. Take a look at the Basque Country, the FP Act, the dual alternating FP, a model that grows with businesses and which Europe is looking at; a FP that adapts the needs of businesses and employment. Finally, in order to define a coherent model of prospecting, monitoring, monitoring, training, qualification and employment that responds to the evolution of the productive sectors, I propose that they carry out a diagnosis of the economic situation, define together with economic, educational and social actors the tractor activities and the needs of the enterprises and implement concrete actions with the promotion of a competitive and sustainable productive fabric that contributes to the increase of the working population, as well as to the reduction of the unemployed population and economic growth. Our position will be abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u54	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u55	As you can see, I replace Comrade Capdevila. First, a fraternal memory for the workers of Coca-Cola in Madrid, who are fighting for the productive economy, to produce in Madrid and not to be invited stone. [[Applauds]] This is what we're talking about today. We are talking about producing, we are talking about working, we are talking about an economy that is the antithesis that has been promoted in recent years. Good intentions have been discussed here, but works are love. Good intentions can remain elsewhere, not in this Chamber. Trying to look into the background of this non-law proposition to see what was behind - if there was anything - I found one thing: centralism. Centralism again. Inefficient centralism, the centralism of arbitrariness; it seems to be a kind of medicine that cures everything in this country, when it has been the one that has led to the backwardness of this state for years and years. This looks like a matrioshka: you open good intentions and inside you find this situation. If things are to change, they have to be done from reality. I'll give you an example of a region in my constituency: the Garrotxa. It is an interior region with 59.4% of workers in the secondary sector, which has been reinvented as a result of the textile crisis. What's the secret? The opposite of what you say; do things from the bottom up, concerting companies and workers, looking in vocational training institutes for what was needed and working and working. This is the optics. I don't know if they understand that things have to be done from reality. Companies are not an entelequia like the Ibex 35. Since I don't play golf with Ibex 35 entrepreneurs I don't know what they want, but I do talk to the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in my constituency and I know what they want. They want cheap energy and not that we pay 25 billion for what they call the tariff deficit. They want cheap power. They want to be treated at least the same - perhaps not as well - as certain large companies. Castor, 1.650 million in a contract that would have to be the shame of Europe, when they are spared the possibility of having a policy to pay workers on time each month. This is what we're talking about. Vocational training allows us to find the right job for the right company. If you take such a big zum you will not see those who are really producing in this country, which is the small and medium-sized enterprise. They're the ones who give work, they're the ones who innovate, they're the ones who go to Girona Science and Technology Park to look for R & D. By the way, even though they have found a solution in Girona's Science and Technology Park to get out of the crisis, even though this park has had 2 million benefits, they save the solution and tell us: Let's put all the parks and pay the FLA. This is like sinking the one you consider the opponent without seeing you go over him and drown. Less ideology, less sectarianism and more concrete reality. This is what very diverse people and also this group, the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left. We're going to get it despite you. The small entrepreneurs of Catalonia feel very lonely, feel without a state and, therefore, many of them want a new state. A republic that really is for your interests, a republic that allows you to get out of the crises well and a republic - like this sticker - solidarity with all of you. Obviously, fraternity, work, formation and republic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz. When you go to change speakers you let us know to the Bureau. We have already realized that you are not Mr Capdevila and we thank him for his intervention. Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ten Oliver has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Echaniz, we cannot be triumphant because we have a serious problem of competitiveness. The operation of long-term growth, the so-called total factor productivity, continues and will continue to be the Achilles heel of the Spanish economy if we do not undertake reforms. Competitiveness in Spain has grown only one and a half points in the last 20 years compared to the thirteen points that have grown in the European Union or the eighteen points that have grown in the United States, despite the fact that we have had high growth rates, of course without taking advantage of them. According to the Global Competitiveness Index 2015-2016 of the World Economic Forum, Spain ranks 32nd, just below countries such as Estonia, the Czech Republic and Saudi Arabia. In the case of Spain several of the problems are well known; we have difficulties in access to finance, complexity in the tax system, excessive bureaucracy and corruption, outdated labour regulations or obstacles to innovation. In addition, this week we have seen concrete examples in this House of these weaknesses, which in fact burden our competitiveness, such as the high unemployment rate, especially in the youth class, which according to Eurostat 2015 data exceeds 48%. We are champions in the European Union, alongside Greece. We have tremendously unstable conditions. 76% of young people have temporary contracts. Interannual inflation has been set at 3%, when the euro area average is 1.3%, so that gap is going to hurt our external balance. Also the high fixed costs in the energy sector, the politicization of the regulatory bodies, the rotating doors - this week we have the flagrant example of Fernández de Mesa -, the looting of the savings boxes and, finally, the passivity in pinching that political bubble that we have both claimed in Citizens, as well as the refusal to recover those 2.8 billion of the tax amnesty. Ladies and gentlemen, our group's voters have relied on Citizens to push forward a reform project where the basic pillars are education, quality employment, the regeneration of our institutions and investment in innovation. Therefore, in the agreement we signed with you, those 150 commitments to improve Spain, we put on the table solutions to those challenges that directly affect our competitiveness. Some of the points I'm going to remind you of are worth an example. In point 78, we have the national pact for education; in points 12 and 108, we must ensure the independence of the regulatory bodies with a system of appointments for merit and capacity, eliminating these revolving doors; in points 22 and 23, we must achieve that 2% of public investment and the creation of this technology transfer network with public-private funding; and in points 42 and 85, we must implement the training checks so that this money goes directly to the long-term unemployed themselves, as well as to increase the resources allocated to the middle-level vocational training cycles, and continue to promote dual vocational training combining training and work in enterprises. I'm finishing up, Madam President. Citizens will vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal, but we lack some concreteness, Mr Echaniz. If you really want to do something to improve competitiveness, allow me two basic premises, one necessary and one urgent. The necessary thing is that the Government must comply with our investment agreement. We have already fulfilled and now it is up to you. Don't make excuses and don't say there's no resources. They can do an audit of the electricity sector; they can depoliticize - as I have commented - the regulatory bodies; they can also investigate those 41 billion that are looting in savings banks; we can save on waste, on institutional duplication and, of course, we can recover those 2.8 billion of the tax amnesty. [[Applauds]] And secondly, the urgent one. I have already given this reflection to Minister Montoro in his appearance at the Finance Committee. To meet these needs, to these measures that directly affect competitiveness, we need them to bring to these Courts the General Budgets of the State for 2017. By the way, not only do I say this, but a few months ago, the head of the executive in office, Mariano Rajoy, recalled in several newspapers the importance of having a government in the shortest possible time in order to be able to adopt emergency measures, such as the expenditure ceiling and the general budgets of the State. Well, you have government, you have spending ceiling, but we don't have budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, being useful is the reason for being a citizen, and I say it with pride. We are public servants and, by the way, you too, do not forget. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u58	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Martínez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u59	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by making a request to all the parliamentary groups, including mine, that we use inclusive language in our proposals. If instead of using the word unemployed we would have used unemployed people perhaps the more than 2 million unemployed women in this country would have felt included. [[Applauds]] With regard to the content of his initiative, it is surprising to me that such a fundamental issue as vocational training has been sent out on a half-page and without any proposal. In addition, the text is full of falsehoods and inaccuracies that the data disassemble itself. They speak of a favourable evolution in employment, when today we have known that unemployment has increased by 57,000 people. The employment figures are as in 2011, only the jobs that have been destroyed in the five years of the People's Party government have been created. We're in the exit box. Competitiveness, if we measure the export quota, has fallen. The only policy the People's Party has developed to improve competitiveness are cuts in labour rights with higher working hours and lower wages. They've committed themselves to one way or another, we compete from the bottom. The largest investments in our country have been made in sectors of medium or low added value. Our export sectors do so in cities that are not at all leading in the global economy. In addition, his initiative shamefully suggests that the 4 million unemployed are because they are not trained. Look, we don't lack qualification. We estimate that between 15 and 20% of people are overqualified, and if not, ask the thousands of people who have had to leave Spain to find jobs that would meet their qualifications. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is not that the unemployed do not have training, it is that we have an obsolete, inefficient, unsustainable and medium or low added value productive model, which is incapable of generating the quantity and quality of employment that our society needs. Vocational training, whether formal or non-formal, without a road map, without clear objectives, without a clear diagnosis of where the labour market is going, where we want to take our productive model, or serves to improve competitiveness or to improve employability. That is the problem, that there is no plan, that there is no will to make structural reforms, and the sad thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that either we are already moving towards a more just and sustainable model or we will have to do it by force and with a high social and economic cost. There are two challenges facing our productive fabric in the short term that will have a major impact on employment and competitiveness, where well-managed vocational training will have a key role to play. The first is the automation of production processes, the so-called Industry 4.0. And it's just that today, we don't know what impact our economy is going to have, we don't know what profiles we're going to need or how many jobs are going to be destroyed, we don't know how many people are going to have to recycle, and the worst thing is that we don't know where we're going to be able to put them because our production system doesn't absorb any more labor. The second challenge is a real opportunity, and it is the green transition of the economy. The Paris Accords and the European Union's decarbonisation objectives set us the direction towards where we have to go in the change of model: renewable energy, energy efficiency, sustainable mobility, the circular economy... The so-called green jobs. Up to 2 million jobs could be created with appropriate fiscal policy and active policies, but unfortunately the People's Party has led us in the opposite direction of common sense and the 21st century. We believe that vocational training is key to equipping ourselves with the necessary profiles and skills to promote this transition, but above all to provide fair opportunities for all people. That is why we are not going to vote against it, but we cannot support it because, firstly, it does not make a single proposal, it is a reaffirmation of what is being done today in the field of vocational training, which neither helps to improve the competitiveness nor the employability of people; secondly, because it makes those who do not find work responsible for the lack of training; and especially because there is no road map to where we want to go or where we want to train people or where we want to take our productive model. Vocational training, ladies and gentlemen, is a fundamental tool, not an end in itself to being non-existent medals. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u60	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Echaniz Salgado whether he accepts his group's amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u61	Thank you, Madam President. To the extent that the proposed amendment group did not want to go into each of the points and wanted to see a vote as a whole, we cannot accept the amendment. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u62	Thank you very much. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON CONCILATION AND CORRESPONSIBILITY. [[File number 162/000068]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u63	We shall now proceed to discuss the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on conciliation and co-responsibility. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Rodríguez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u64	Thank you, President. Firstly, talking about conciliation and co-responsibility, they will allow me to have a memory for those workers who are unemployed, who cannot reconcile their lives with their jobs because they do not have that job, a job that they need not only to earn income but also to develop themselves personally. And a second reference to the grandparents and grandmothers of this country, who in just over two or three hours will arrive at the doors of the schools to pick up their grandchildren and grandchildren, exercising the best and greatest social welfare support that is being held in our country today to care for so many families that would have no other chance to raise their sons and daughters. To them, if they were on strike today, they would paralyse our entire country; to them, who have not only supported society socially and economically during the crisis, but are also supporting the care of families; to them, who would have to be enjoying their rest and their pension and yet continue to help this country. It is also a tribute to them for this non-legislative proposal from the Socialist Group. Ladies and gentlemen, is this the country we want? Is this how we want to organize ourselves as a society? A country where grandparents have to take care of their grandchildren and can't rest? Is this a country where the wage gap between men and women is 20%? A country where more than 70% of part-time contracts are signed by them? A country in which we have moved from the creation of 254,000 households per year in 2012, to just 76,000 households in 2014, according to data from the Banco de España? A country where more people are dying than they are born? A country where, according to the prospection that has been made, by 2050 we will have 30% of the population over sixty-five years old? A country where we need, according to the Family Policy Institute, an additional 300,000 births a year to reconcile this generational replacement necessary in economic and social terms? Is this the country we want? I think we mostly agree that we don't. But the needs that this country has in its social cohesion, in its economic distribution do not depend only on what individual and personal families decide, it also depends on what we do in this House, and that is what this non-law proposal is about; it is about conciliation and co-responsibility, which cannot be left alone in the private sphere. We must be able to reconcile our own lives, of course, our private sphere, but we must also be able to reconcile the shared space, the public interest. Conciliation and co-responsibility policies will make us move forward in a more equal society, but they are also essential for responding to the great challenges that threaten us. We need to move forward with them if we are to achieve fair, equitable economic growth, and above all we need to work on them if we are to address the demographic disaster and its consequences for our country. It is our responsibility that this issue be of the first order on our country's political agenda. We have to reconcile the needs of Spain with the needs of the citizenry, we have to reconcile the social, demographic and economic needs of the country with the individual needs of job stability, income, care for the lives of our families, of our pensions. We will regain the spirit of the Equality Act of 2007, which broke with the labour reform of the People's Party. We're not starting from anything. In this same House, important work has been done that I would like to acknowledge, such as the subcommittee on the study of the rationalization of hours, the reconciliation of personal, family and work life and co-responsibility, which worked in the last legislature and presented its conclusions at the end of 2013. It was attended by fellow Members of this House and also by organizations such as the PPiiNA, whose representatives follow us from the rostrum. I do not want to look back, I do not want to analyse the policies of the People's Party and the impact they have had on equality policies in our country. There are many official data, many statistics and many studies that show this, some of them indicated in the explanatory statement of our non-law proposal. We want to look to the future, and that's what our non-law proposal is about. It is our wish that we should conjure ourselves to mark that priority on the political agenda, as I said, to build a more egalitarian country and to put an end to the negative consequences that, if not, that would have on us. We believe that it is not so difficult to ensure in this country that the same pay is guaranteed for the same work; that in this country we put on the scale that it is not so important to see the clock ticking from the workplace, but that it is much more important that we be able to devise, build, create, the ingenuity that we put on it and the innovation that we get out of those jobs; that this is not a country where forming a family is an impossible mission, but one of the best contributions that we can make to society; that it is a country where our children can share everyday life with their families; a country in which politics is a priority to achieve greater levels of well-being, happiness, citizenship and in which we do not lose a second in sterile debates. This is a proposal not of very broad law. We try to set out in it the priorities of our party, which we lead to the electoral programme. I am grateful for the work of the parliamentary groups in amending, nurturing and improving it. His work has been complicated because it was very broad, but I want to highlight three main areas. One has to do with the field of labour rights. The part-time contract must be regulated - it has been a failure with dire consequences in relation to women who have had to go to such jobs - and overtime, which is being the escape of employers to abuse workers, especially women workers, with no subsequent impact on their social security contributions for pension purposes. We have to regulate what concerns paternity and maternity leave, which fortunately and in the absence of budgets - perhaps one of its advantages - have entered into force, but we have to set ourselves a timetable for the future to make them compulsory and non-transferable and to equate the mother's leave with that of the father. We have to provide our country with public services; we have to recover the priority of zero to three years in public education; we have to recover the Unit Law, which took women out of the care of their families and which also generated resources and jobs, and we have to draw up a plan, in which the majority of us here agree, which has to do with rationalizing schedules in private and in public and which I believe is possible in this legislature. From the full conviction that we share the essence of this non-law proposal, I ask you to support it, not to waste a second of that precious time and to work to build it. Our group will support all the administrations, all the governments that decide to work hard for this concern and we commit ourselves to working from here, from Parliament, so that our dreams, our desires, the individual and the collective, do not remain alone in that, in dreams and in desires. Here, in our hands, it is possible to change it; this Parliament is already different, there are no crushing absolute majorities that can put an end to the wishes of other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u65	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u66	Thank you, President. Let us build a common desire and dream that is to reconcile the interest of our party with the interest of the Spaniards. Thank you very much to all the parliamentary groups for their support and for their amendments. I hope that we will achieve unanimity to carry it out. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, conciliation and co-responsibility; co-responsibility of all social and political actors, because this is not a problem of law, it is a problem of society. I always say I've been able to make a career and a political career in life because I had a mother, but my daughter won't have me. My mother was a housewife, had ten children and now she has thirteen grandchildren, and when it's bridges or holidays she has thirteen grandchildren at home. As the PP spokesman said very well, that's the day-to-day life of so many grandparents, but to the world we go to, where women are going to be up to sixty-seven years working, that's not going to be so. [[Rumors]] We have to have a partnership...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u69	One second, Mrs. Oramas. Please, ladies and gentlemen, take your seats and remain silent. Go ahead, Mrs. Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u70	We must have a society in which such reconciliation and equality are given not only in law but in social reality. That's why I'm glad there's been a transactional that's been nurturing and expanding aspects as important as zero-to-three-year childhood education. How are you going to have children today with a salary of 600 or 700 euros and without having guaranteed a free school place? We have to have a society in which there is a law of real dependence, because in the end the caretakers of the dependency are women; a society in which we can work decently, because precarious jobs are feminizing. As we said, poverty in this country always has the face of a woman, of a young woman, of single-parent families and this society has to go elsewhere. For that we need not only a state pact of political forces but, fundamentally, a social pact. Of course, the Canarian nationalists and this spokesman will participate in such agreements, because demography is a country problem but also a problem of universal rights and equality policies. We're the same. It took time for political equality, but there must be social equality. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u71	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. Once again conciliation and co-responsibility for debate. It is one of the issues that, I believe, generates greater consensus in this House. Everyone agrees that we need more conciliation, more co-responsibility; we see the social problem that exists and yet there is no capacity to reach any agreement to move even a small step in this direction. The ideology on this issue hijacks progress. When some present us with non-legislative proposals on conciliation, they present us with their electoral programme, with which it would be appropriate to counter with a battery of amendments according to our electoral programme, and thus up to eight electoral programmes plus the Joint Group. There'd be no way I could agree to anything. We have chosen, on the basis of the text of the Socialist Group, to try to quantify what hurts us the most. And what hurts us the most? In particular, the mantra of competences. This non-legislative proposal goes into the kitchen of the competences of the autonomous communities. Here, in this house, it is frequent to skip them, it is common not only in the GNP, but every day in the laws in force applied, even some are allowed the luxury of waving the flag of the seal of schools to avoid the right to vote. You've lost all sorts of shame. A single sentence such as 'with respect for the competences' or 'within the framework of the competences of the State' to this Member sounds like a joke, but we had to put it even if it were to keep the forms. We have also tabled amendments to the Dependency Act. You say that the labour issue needs to be addressed; right, it needs to be addressed and reformed all those laws that have kept us taking care of and that only invite us to reconcile. Frankly, we would have to address labour law reforms that would allow us to reconcile but also them. The text of the non-legislative proposal reflects this indication that women continue to reconcile, that they make it easy for us to continue reconciling. That is why we are very much in favour of amending paternity and maternity leave, so that they are equal, non-transferable and, in addition, 100 per cent paid for both. But the right to parenthood and motherhood is just one example, we should also do so with all the rights that involve care, such as legal custody. Some raised it to the age of twelve of the creature, other parties see it as a right of mothers and, in our view, should be a right of the family. Legal custody should be for the care of the child up to the age of twelve but for both, thus stimulating the other parent - father, mother or in the case of two parents - who can benefit from it. Therefore, yes to conciliation, yes to co-responsibility but yes to discuss tailor-made, serenely, with little ideology, seeking the ultimate goal, which is that this is a reality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u74	Thank you, President. I am going to start by addressing the authors of this initiative, the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, and I am doing so by asking you a question: are conciliation and co-responsibility really a priority for you? I don't think so; that's what they're proving. Looks like they've been running out of directions lately. The Socialist Party has already sat down several times with the government party, the People's Party. There is nothing wrong with it; we were months asking them to do so. The problem is that when you sit down you do it to agree to raise taxes or split up judges of the Constitutional Court. [[Applauds]] You do not change, neither does the Socialist Party, nor does the People's Party. Where do they leave the conciliation? Doesn't seem like a priority. For Citizens, it is. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u75	One second, Mrs. Reyes. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on one of the last items on the agenda, but we must keep the same silence as throughout the morning in respect of the speaker on this rostrum. I hope that until the end of the plenary session I will not have to call on your ladies and gentlemen again to remain silent. Go ahead, Mrs. Reyes.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u76	Thank you, President. On the other hand, for Citizens it is and it has become evident. We include it as an important section in our pact with the Socialist Party and also in the demands of the PP for investiture. We would have liked to see you there negotiating, surely it would have been more effective than a non-law proposal like the one you are now proposing, in which you include a battery of measures, many of which are reflected in the investment pact between Citizens and the People's Party, some have even begun to start. Since January 1, this year, as you all know, parents have enjoyed two more weeks of paternity leave thanks to our requirement number 66 of the investiture pact. It is still insufficient, it is clear, but it is a step. If we are looking for a co-responsibility model, parental leave must be equal and that is our goal, in addition to increasing it to a total of twenty-six weeks. We hope that the People's Party will continue to comply, because so far it has maintained a rule that is not egalitarian, a rule that violates a fundamental right, the one contained in article 14 of our Constitution: 'Spanish people are equal before the law without any discrimination on the grounds of sex...'. This is what permits do as they are applied so far, discriminate. Why don't all men here have the same right to be with their children as I have as a mother? Why, as a mother, is it my duty to reconcile over what is imposed on the father? Norms that are unfair and that place women in unequal opportunities in the labour market cannot be maintained. How many things remain to be done for a woman to have the same opportunities as a man! We have been incorporated into the labour market for a long time. Behind it was the time of Concepción Arenal, in which if the woman wanted to go to college she had to do it as a listener or disguised as a man. Conciliation must be a matter for both men and women, and from here we have to work for it. I would also like to stop to another extent that we in Citizens consider fundamental to change this aspect, which is education. As you well know, it is a priority for us and that is why we have promoted that state pact. It should talk about active education on equal terms. I regret to say that it seems that difficult times are coming with future generations. According to a CIS survey, 33% of Spaniards between the ages of fifteen and twenty-five consider violence and control in the couple to be acceptable; a much higher percentage than in older people. There is nothing more to see than the social networks of adolescents, in which roles that perpetuate inequality continue to be maintained. We do great harm to the girls and also to the boys with our way of educating them. That which is interpreted as masculinity becomes a kind of cage for them; we repress that they express their feelings, generate fear for vulnerability and, therefore, make them more fragile. We continue to educate the girls for the care of the people, so the women assume a double burden in their entirety. We feel terribly guilty trying to be mothers and professionals at the same time, because we only see that we do not arrive. Let us educate our children in freedom, without gender expectations; let us focus on their capacities as people and help them to develop them fully. Finally - I know I have little time left - I would like to ask some of you, apart from making non-legislative proposals or legislative proposals, to include in your programmes measures that promote conciliation, act accordingly. Let us not be hypocritical, ladies and gentlemen, because here, in Congress, the possibility has been raised of rationalizing timetables to promote such reconciliation and co-responsibility. It affects not only us, Members of Parliament, but also a lot of people who work here: staff, journalists, etc. We hope that everyone will accept it and we can set an example. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u78	The Socialist Group proposes a non-legislative proposal which in principle seems reasonable and sounds sensible to the ears of this House. For the most part, the aim is to comply with existing legislation on the promotion of effective equality between women and men, which already provided for subsequent legal developments to achieve this equality in all fields, both work and family and cultural. It is to be welcomed that now, from the opposition, the Socialist Group calls for the development of legislation enacted by Zapatero as a blank paper, while nothing has been done to put it into effect with political will and solvent economic endowment. In the analysis and presentation of reasons to the House, the Socialist Group leaves out an element that we believe to be central in promoting that equality in care and domestic work. The work of women outside the home is worth less than that of men, although it is done for the same time and with the same quality. With Eurostat data, in 2016, since 8 November last year, women could already say that they were for practical and comparative purposes working for free. If we do not eliminate the gender pay gap, our jobs will be second and, as such, the system will push us to leave that market to resume those tasks that patriarchy traditionally considers to be women's natural obligation. In order for our jobs not to be worth less, we too have to be equal in terms of our motherhood, if we want to develop it, of course. It has been shown that the wage gap widens at the age at which women decide or can decide to be mothers and that there are 93 per cent of the surpluses taken by women who are for the care of their children. Without equal paid and non-transferable paternity and maternity permits, women will remain at risk workers, we will not eliminate the gender pay gap and traditional care and roles will be a covert imposition, not a free choice. We have been talking about this for a long time now about the PPiiNA platform, to which we greet because it is above. That is why, when we come to this House with the proposed law that will give effect to this equalization of permits with its intransferability, we hope to have the logical support of the whole House, because we are talking about the right to care on equal terms and the right to be treated on an equal basis. [[Rumors]] I don't know if the president bothers the noise, but I do. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u79	Your Honor, you may proceed. Remember, just four minutes ago, I reminded your ladies and gentlemen to remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u80	It just didn't do any good.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u81	If the Presidency has to send its ladies and gentlemen every five minutes to remain silent, we will not finish the plenary session, but above all it is a lack of respect. From here I see all of you when I ask for silence or say that you occupy your seats and I have had the opportunity to see how there are ladies who when I say 'occupy your seats' continue to stand and ladies who when I say 'keep silence' continue to speak. I would like you to remind your fellow Members that the speaker has to be heard, because you help me with this work which, as you see, is quite ungrateful at many times and, of course, you have quite one to endure. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u82	It is a pride, Madam President, to make sure that this House works better. In the meantime, we call for the current four-week paternity leave, which has now been put into effect, not to be a compulsory unbroken leave, but only to be mandatory for the first two weeks of the first year of the child's life, and for the other two to be made available throughout the first year of the child's life, so as not to cheat on us and that such leave does not end up falling by the imposition of the next four weeks and hindering essential and necessary progress. We warn the Socialist Group of the danger of part-time working for women in the current wording. This type of day is precisely one of the solutions that women workers take to keep taking care of at home and working outside as well. We must encourage a change in wages, paternity and maternity leave and working hours in order to promote continuous and full working hours for both men and women. Part-time work must be avoided as a refuge for women to continue to carry everything, because it entails less wages, and as women have lower wages again because of the wage gap and women's work outside the home has less value, so we convince them to return to it and leave the labour market, and in the future they will have worse benefits for both unemployment and retirement. Our workers are going to be poor, poorer than our workers on the day of their retirement. The Government must bear this in mind and eradicate this future problem, and for that we also need a very powerful implementation of our public service in terms of dependence. Let us remember that we have a 2007 law that has not been developed. Education is a transcendental pillar for equality between people, but we cannot introduce equality as a covert, auxiliary, out-of-school content. We need, as we need it for the prevention of macho violence, that our primary and secondary teachers have training in gender issues that allows them to incorporate equality as a cross-cutting and central content in our democratic identity as a country, not as a footnote to the decontextualized. We need to talk about changing the curriculum. If we take this problem seriously, we must treat it as something specific to the democratic quality of the State, to its general conception. Those who share responsibility, those who talk about these things, we cannot be women alone. It can't be just us who are talking about this, because I would like to ask your ladies and gentlemen, and I'm finishing up, how much time you, each and every one of you, have to reconcile. As Members, as Members, how much time do you have to reconcile, how much time a day, how much time a day? And in the time you have to reconcile, are you really thinking about something else or are you thinking about this House? In that time, how much do you really think you're conciliating? I'm not going to tell you what readings are necessary for me, I'm not going to tell you about Paul Lafargue or Stevenson and how you think about free time, but I ask you to think about this for a moment. And now you think that thanks to the two labour reforms, that of the Zapatero Government and that of the Rajoy Government, who today work in the Spanish State do not even count on that time that we Members of this House can count on. Think about your spare time again. How little do you think? Why can't they disconnect?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u83	Mrs. Fernández, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u84	I'm finishing up. That time, which is free, is for care, but it is also for self-care, for life, so that as people we do not remain reduced and reduced to machines that produce and, if possible, if they can, reproduce. That time is essential for us to feel like people of law and to participate in the advancement of history. You also know that that time outside the Chamber is far less than what we have here. Therefore, if we want to move towards a greater reconciliation of working life with family life, with personal life, with life itself, let us do so. We are going to vote in favour of this GNP with the compromise text, but we ask them to be serious and serious. Without repealing the labor reforms that enslave us, this is yet another beautiful and well-intentioned speech. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor on the position-setting shift.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u86	Thank you, Madam President. A few months ago, in the previous parliamentary term, the Socialist Group brought another non-legislative proposal - perhaps it was a motion - more or less related to this issue, especially the issue of the wage gap, and obviously the wage gap is totally linked to the issue that brings us today. We said two things. Firstly, that the lack of conciliation, without a doubt, in principle, is due to the lack of equality. If there is no equality, there are no equal conditions, and there are no equal conditions, it cannot be reconciled. Secondly, to reconcile one must work, and unfortunately many women cannot and cannot not reconcile because they do not have a job and are engaged in performing functions that others who have jobs sometimes do not do or half do. We are creating a society based on these issues which previously, when all the questions were answered, marked a reality, but which today, fortunately, pose many challenges to tackle, and among them, this one. There is a report by Emakunde, of the Basque Institute for Women, on the co-responsible social organization, which clearly states at the outset that the sexual division of labour and the traditional allocation of production and reproduction to each sex - men and women - generated and continues to generate a social organization in which, on the one hand, the sustenance, the productive, the public is a space with relations, roles and values mostly male and male, and on the other hand, the care, the reproductive, the private and domestic is a space with relations, roles and values mostly female and women. Undoubtedly, the incorporation of women into the labour market and the impact of this incorporation on both the private and public sectors have shown how this model formally, functionally and symbolically harms women in favour of men. Those of us who participated in the last parliamentary term in the subcommittee on the subject of conciliation - where all the political parties worked a lot and almost everyone agreed on the conclusions, we knew where the problem was and where it had to be tackled - I think we can continue to talk about what the reality is and what the problems are, but the issue is how we can make that reality change. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I fully understand your good intention in bringing forward this non-law proposal, but you will allow me to say that what cannot be done is to take out the sheets of the electoral programme, present it here as if it were a non-law proposal and call for unconditional adherence to that electoral programme. We all have things to contribute, there has been a transaction in which mainly those who have amended and some conclusions have been reached have participated. But the GNP that we are examining, far from concrete measures, is limited to stating purposes that, after an elementary check, it turns out that they are only non-reproducer, as I said, in much of an electoral programme. There's one side added to all this that no one has cut - and I have little time -, which is next. We cannot fail to warn that there is a monumental confusion of legal and competition titles on matters in which different administrations operate, even in the field of different legislators. For example, of the twenty-one measures mentioned, six refer to labour and social security legislation, and their promotion is likely to be urged to the Government of the State, with this House competent in this area. However, another ten relate to legal matters or goods whose protection is, in our case, attributed to the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, by virtue of different titles contained in the Statute of Self-Government of Gernika: 10, 12 and 18, for example. And another five could be exercised indistinctly by the State administration, the autonomous, the local or even the foral, in the case of Euskadi, by virtue of the powers conferred on it in both fiscal and social assistance matters, as he said, both in the Constitution and in the Statute of Euskadi's Autonomy. However, we want to make it clear, therefore, that it is not enough to have intentions, which are very good, or to have a desire to do things, because we are in a place where legislation is in place and we need to know what can be legislated and what cannot be legislated, and it gives me the feeling that some political parties, within their progress, sometimes forget that the framework is the framework and that, if we want to change it, this is the place to do it. But let them say it because, in principle, what is ours is ours, and what is not, is not ours. Yesterday I will repeat this on another subject, and it gives me the feeling that this legislature will have to repeat and give pedals constantly remembering where we are, what we are and why we are not. Therefore, we believe that this issue is very deep, perhaps it should be developed in something more important than a non-law proposal, it is a serious issue that the Basque Nationalist Party will be willing to tackle from the very first moment, as it did from the moment it participated in that Commission.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u87	Mr. Agirretxea, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u88	I conclude, Madam President, by saying that we would like to see more concrete measures that we really have to take and that other administrations are already doing so. The plan I have taught you about Emakunde is being carried out in Euskadi and I also think it is very true. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u89	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, I have the floor, Mrs. Surra Spadea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u90	Thank you, Madam President. The proposal of no initial law between conciliation and responsibility proposed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group seemed to us to be very general in principle, which dealt with several very important issues for people's lives, we even think that each of them separately would deserve an individual and more comprehensive GNP. While Squerra Republicana de Catalunya will always support all measures in favour of policies that promote effective equality, the compromise reached by the Socialist Parliamentary Group with the input of several groups seems to us to be more complete and we will therefore support it. We all live 24 hours a day, but unfortunately, not all of us do it under the same conditions. Our party has always taken a stand and worked for an hourly reform to regulate the process, mechanisms and resources to implement timetables that favor more human and civic uses of time, that are beneficial to institutions, businesses and especially citizens. In Catalonia we work and bet on the impulse of a new culture of time, where we move from industrial-era schedules to those that adapt to current needs, with more efficient and flexible models to meet the new social complexities. We have to go back to the pre-franchising hours, adapted to the new social, economic and cultural reality. Catalan society is a European leader in the fight against discrimination and in realizing the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination on the grounds of gender, religion, belief, disability, age, racial or ethnic origin, sexual identity or orientation or by any other social or personal status, and we will continue to work to ensure that our country has the institutions, legal techniques of equality and the most advanced instruments to ensure this non-discrimination between persons. For this reason, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya has long been committed to ensuring that the reconciliation of work and family life goes from a utopia to a reality and achieves effective equality. For this reason, we are working to ensure that in the future Catalan Republic measures such as gender-neutral education, the provision of childcare facilities for children aged from zero to three years for families who so request, adequate resources for the care of dependents, and progress towards hourly flexibility and equal work permits that allow family co-responsibility. We believe that all this is as important as the struggle to promote equal pay for men and women in paid work of equal value and the contribution bonus for the purpose of calculating pensions. The latter - perhaps the least named - deals with the inequality that becomes effective at the end of working life and that spends an unpaid bill of years for having lost work because of being pregnant or for having decided to take care of their children instead of continuing to work and having to leave them with third people, which sometimes costs more than the salary that is received. And, worst of all, all for the famous birth call for the good of the country. It would not be a bonus, but a fair right that would only attempt equality when it comes to telling how old a person can retire. In conclusion, I would like to call on all the honourable Members to come from the territory that they come from and belong to any parliamentary group, to consider this change to democratise access to the political and social space with an equitable sharing of tasks and timetables, which today is essential for women to take their rightful place. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs Valmaña Ochaita has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to start by saying, as some previous Members have done, by congratulating on behalf of my group the President and the entire Bureau on the initiatives they are taking to promote family reconciliation not only for Members but for all the staff of the House. I am sure that, beyond the effect that it can have on each of us individually, it represents a serious gesture and a significant advance in making visible a political will of all groups, which is to bet on conciliation and co-responsibility. That seems very timely to me at a time when we are discussing a non-legislative proposal whose objectives we certainly share. We share any objective that aims directly at improving the reconciliation of people in their personal, family and work lives and also at advancing co-responsibility. Moreover, not only do we share the objectives of this non-legislative proposal, but the People's Party has been working for a long time in the Government of Spain to achieve those objectives. In these past legislatures, the X and XI, the Government of Spain has made very important contributions to the objective of improving conciliation and promoting co-responsibility. I'm gonna give you some good news. They have already learned that the four weeks of parental leave have been in effect since 1 January. That's good news. This is what happens with the sufferings and what usually happens when you take the election program, which puts things that were then not in force, but we are in time to correct them and have been corrected in the transaction. You've heard. Perhaps you should also learn some other things. For example, the Comprehensive Family Support Plan 2015-2017 included conciliation and co-responsibility among its strategic lines - specifically in the second -. There was already a package of very relevant measures in relation to the planning of the days, economic protection, the provision of services or social awareness, all of which must be promoted by the General Administration of the State in these years. This is also true of the measures introduced for self-employed workers under Article 38 of the Self-Employment Statute. These measures have recently been introduced in Law 31/2015 and provide for a 100 per cent bonus of the quota for self-employed workers in certain situations and meeting certain requirements, but provided that they are in a period of rest for maternity, adoption, foster care and many other circumstances. It is therefore a measure directly aimed at promoting conciliation. Article 11 of the Law on Social Economy - introduced by the same law of 2015 to which it referred - also extends the same effects to the members or workers of cooperatives. In some respects, therefore, very significant progress has been made. Let us remember that this progress has taken place at a time when there was no real possibility of extraordinary expenditure; extraordinary expenditure, by the way, that many of the measures you propose do not contemplate where they are drawn from. They are not telling us which items they want to take the money out of in order to be able to finance those measures they propose. What happens to the sufferings is precisely that: you know how the suffering begins, but when it ends badly, when you can't do much with it, all we can do is throw it away. That's why we're not going to support your non-law proposal. There are measures contained in the Family Support Plan and the Equality Plan that have already been put in place and which the Government of Spain has already taken forward, but which are somehow present in its non-legislative proposal. And another very important group of measures in its non-legislative proposal is not the responsibility of the Government of Spain to implement them; they are, as some parliamentary groups have pointed out, the responsibility of the autonomous communities. But it seems good to me, you and I are from the same autonomous community and I propose one thing: let's go together to see Mr García-Page and tell him, for example, that children's schools start from zero to three years. We can tell Mr García-Page that this year's budgets will put them in place. Also the school eateries and all these measures that you propose, because right now the one who rules in that autonomous community is a socialist president. Tell him to get them started. You ask to look to the future. Let's do it; from today on, let that president do it. [[Applauds]] And not only that of Castilla-La Mancha, those of all the autonomous communities ruled by the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u93	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u94	Yes, Madam President, I'm done. ... because it turns out that you bring one thing here when you rule the People's Party and something else very different in the autonomous parliaments governed by you. If you want us to work seriously, if you want us to really adopt issues on which there is a very broad agreement on the common basis for further progress, each and every member of the People's Party will be willing to do so with seriousness and rigour, because that is what Spain needs. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u95	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Rodríguez García whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u96	President, we have prepared a compromise which I have sent to the Bureau; I think they already have it at their disposal.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u97	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u98	The next item is the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, done at Brussels on 11 April 2014. Unless I am told something against it, the opinion will be put to the vote by consensus with the rest of the votes we have scheduled for today morning. Okay? [[Consent]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u99	The next item is the last item on the agenda, on proposals for the creation of subcommittees. In particular, the following are proposed by the Committee on Culture, setting up a subcommission to draw up a statute for the artist; proposal by the Committee on Defence, setting up a subcommission to study the professional regime of military troops and navy of the Armed Forces; proposal by the Committee on Justice, setting up a subcommission to study and define a national justice strategy; proposal by the Committee on Employment and Social Security, setting up a subcommission to study the reform of the special scheme for self-employed or self-employed workers, and proposal by the Commission for the audit of democratic quality, the fight against corruption and institutional and legal reforms, the creation of a subcommission on the regime and financing of political parties, the impartiality and independence of independent authorities and the protection of whistleblowers in cases of corruption. [[NETWORK]] Can they be understood to be approved by consent? [[Consent]] Thank you very much. Let's call it a vote. We'll start in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. Let's start the voting. We shall begin with the voting on the motions following urgent appeals. First, we voted on the motion of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on child poverty. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea y Mixto. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 168 against, 131 abstentions, 37.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u101	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT TO ENCOURAGE, PROMOTE AND PROTECT CULTURE AND CULTURAL INDUSTRIES IN SPAIN. [[File number 173/000011]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u102	We voted for the motion by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the Government's policy to promote, promote and protect culture and cultural industries in Spain. We're going to vote for points. We shall begin by voting on item 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour 206 against 131.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u103	It was adopted. We shall now proceed to vote on item 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 336 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u104	Point 2 was adopted. We shall now proceed to vote on point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 193 against, 139 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u105	Point 3 was adopted. We shall now proceed to vote on item 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 259 against, 71 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u106	Item 4 was adopted. We voted on point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour 253 against 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u107	Point 5 was adopted. We shall now proceed to vote on item 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 253 against, 8 abstentions, 77.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u108	Point 6 was adopted. We shall now proceed to vote on item 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 328 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u109	Point 7 was adopted. [[Applauds]] - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE APPLICATION OF THE GAST RULE TO LOCAL ENTITIES. [[File number 173/000012]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u110	We shall then vote on the Socialist Group's motion on the application of the expenditure rule to local authorities. The vote will also be taken on points. We voted, first of all, on point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 103 against, 197 abstentions, 38.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u111	Paragraph 1 is rejected. We shall now proceed to vote on item 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 103 against, 201 abstentions, 34.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u112	It's rejected. We shall now proceed to vote on point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 174 against, 128 abstentions, 35.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u113	Point 3 was adopted. Finally, we voted on paragraph 4 of this motion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 174 against, 130 abstentions, 34.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u114	Item 4 was adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u115	We now vote on the proposal for a law on the establishment of a minimum income benefit in the field of social security protection. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 339 plus 3 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 176 plus 1 telematics vote, 177; against, 163 plus 2 telematics votes, 165. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u116	It was approved for consideration. I would ask you, please, to applaud at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u117	We then proceed to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, amending Act 15/2015 of 2 July 2015 on Voluntary Jurisdiction. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 plus 3 telematics votes, 340; in favour, 337 plus 3 telematics votes, 340.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u118	The proposal for a law was approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u119	We voted on the text of the non-legislative proposals as agreed in the course of the debate. No law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on promoting the competitiveness of the Spanish economy through vocational training and quality at work. We are going to vote on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 165 against, 9 abstentions, 165.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u120	The non-legislative proposal was approved. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON CONCILATION AND CORRESPONSIBILITY. [[File number 162/000068]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u121	We shall now proceed to the Socialist Group's non-legislative proposal on conciliation and co-responsibility. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, the Citizens Group, the Republican Left Group and the Joint Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 195 against, 130 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u122	The non-legislative proposal was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u123	We shall now proceed to the vote on the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, held in Brussels on 11 April 2014. Does the House agree to the adoption of the opinion by consent? [[Consent]] He remembers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-02-CD170202.u124	Similarly, although I have said this before the vote, all subcommittees are approved by consent on the proposal of all groups in this House. Do we remember it that way? [[Consent]] We approved it. Thank you very much. The meeting rose. It was one and five minutes in the afternoon.
