ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u1	The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. [[Pause]] In place of Don Francesc Homs Molist, I ask Don Feliu Joan Guillaumes and Ràfols if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u2	Yes, I promise for legal and judicial empire. It's for you, Quico.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u3	Thank you very much. [[The Rumors Continue]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Don Feliu Joan Guillaumes and Ràfols have acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u4	We will consider the agenda item on the motions for resolutions submitted in connection with the debate on the report on the status, functioning and activities of the General Council of the Judiciary, and of the courts and tribunals for 2015. 128 motions for resolutions have been tabled by the parliamentary groups. The parliamentary groups may act in an order of minor to greater order and for a maximum of seven minutes in order to defend the proposals and amendments tabled, as well as to establish a position on those of the remaining parliamentary groups. In defence of the proposals put forward by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. Our motions for resolutions on the memory of the General Council of the Judiciary are aimed at three main concepts. The first, in matters of transparency and independence; the second, in more technical-legal matters; and the third, in matters relating to the politicization of justice. In the area of transparency and independence. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek - Group of States against Corruption - within the Council of Europe sends a diaphanous message: Spain shows a very low level of compliance with its recommendations, and strongly criticizes Spain for failing to comply with its recommendations to strengthen judicial independence. In this sense, the Greek recommends that against the discretionary power in appointments, which now exhibits the Council, objective criteria and evaluation requirements for the appointment of the highest ranks of the judiciary be established in the law... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u6	One second, Your Honor, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, there must be about 30 Members who are talking on a permanent basis. I can't call attention to the thirty, so if you do please, let's keep quiet, let's listen to Mrs. Ciuro and we'll be fine all morning. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u7	Thank you, Madam President. He said that the aim was to ensure that such appointments did not call into question the independence, impartiality and transparency of the election process. Ladies and gentlemen, 67% of those surveyed by the Council itself, that is, 67% of judges and judges, are of the opinion that the criteria of merit and competence are not observed in the Council's appointment decisions with regard to the highest ranks of the judiciary. We want to guarantee it. Therefore, from the Democratic Party we propose to the Council that appointments to the High Courts be based solely on the criteria of equality, merit and capacity, and that the framework parameters for their implementation be established for this purpose. The unfortunate episode that happened at the Barcelona Provincial High Court in the appointment of its highest representative cannot be repeated, because although in the eyes of the Council it followed objective criteria - I mean the appointment - it did not look like almost anyone else, since the candidate, Mrs Ángels Vivas, was excluded, despite being the oldest candidate, with a better position in the meritorious escalation, and as a woman on equal terms she had to opt for the gender balance position provided for by the Equality Act. However, Mrs. Vivas is weighed on in this non-appointment the supposed ideological aspect, because she had the fear of supporting the so-called manifesto of the 33 judges for the right to decide of the people of Catalonia. Another order of proposals is that the Greek report argues that political authorities should not intervene at any stage of the process of appointing judges, and as the members of the Council are appointed by members of Parliament, politicians at the time, this requirement is not met. It is therefore clear that the Council is perceived as an influential and influential body, and we therefore urge it to propose proposals for improvement on its part to ensure its own independence and that of justice. We also suggest that you believe in the observatory for judicial independence, composed in such a way as to guarantee its plurality. It is inexcusable to take action. See, in the European Union's Justice Indicators Report, the Spanish State ranks fourth in line - that is, twenty-four of twenty-eight states - in perception of its independence, and 59% of citizens value the judicial system as bad or very bad. The World Economic Forum places Spain at ninety-seven out of one hundred forty-four. Second block of proposals, on technical and legal matters. In the Democratic Party we want to stop a linguistic desert for Catalan in the field of justice in Catalonia. At present in the judicial sphere is where the greatest violations of the linguistic rights of citizens occur. We cannot continue to tolerate acts such as that of Olot's judge, who seriously and with bad manners admonished two lawyers who intended to exercise the rights of defense of their clients in Catalan and told them to do the favor of speaking in the language known to all, which is the Castilian. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union considers Catalan, a language we have the privilege of speaking seven million people across Europe, as a language of communication, and any citizen can speak and be answered in Catalan by the Community institutions. This proves more intolerable if the actions of Olot's judge, who is more typical of the lock than of reason, can be taken, and the Council should not continue to allow this. We know that the Council imposed a slight sanction on the judge, but should not the Council also perhaps wonder whether a judge who has been living in Catalonia for three years, who is unable even to understand Catalan, is capable of making judgments? We do not know if this question was asked. Another proposal is to provide the Justice Administration with more human resources and create new places for judges and magistrates following recent legal changes, which will bear higher workloads in massive claims for unfair terms. We also want to put an end to the leaks in the secret summary proceedings, which undoubtedly give rise to parallel trials. There is not a process with all the guarantees if there are leaks in the media and they know before the affected one the steps to do. This guarantees the spectacle and violates all guarantees. Why do we not do as in neighbouring countries and it is the judges and prosecutors who give the appropriate explanations when appropriate? [[Rumors]] Finally, and finally, the third group of proposals is addressing the most topical issues relating to the politicization of justice. Justice today is politicised above its possibilities, at levels of scandal at European and international level, as I have mentioned before, and in this matter we are convinced that the highest governing body has much to say. Our proposals are also endorsed by the European institutions, on this occasion by the Council of Europe, which, through the Venice Commission, notes with concern the situation in Spain and notes that the granting of powers to the Constitutional Court to enforce its own judgments is an exception compared to other democratic countries, since these functions are normally attributed to other powers of the State. The Spanish State should review this competition. In addition, the same claims that the perception that the CT is neutral is generated, as is the case with a law judge; today the CT is perceived as an arbitrator who goes up to finish the corners of the home team. We therefore propose to the Council that it call for the repeal of the recent reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, since, as the Venice Commission notes, the application of the measure envisaged in this reform of disqualification to elected officials, especially deputies, is problematic because it violates the democratic mandate conferred on them by popular sovereignty. In fact, we have several samples - I finish, Madam President, in two seconds - in the recent political disqualifications handed down, especially against our spokesman, Mr Francesc Homs, who has been disqualified - debugged, I would say - by putting ballots, by democrat and not by non-compliance with any orders of the TC, because if it were for non-compliance, where should Mr Rajoy be found, who, with the coldness of thirty-four rulings of the Constitutional Court, is the recordman in failed rulings of the TC in favor of Catalonia? [[Applauds]] That is why we want the Council to show that Spanish justice is the same for all and to condemn the President of the Government to comply with the thirty-four sentences of the Constitutional Court under notice of the offence of disobedience, with the penalty of disqualification. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u8	Thank you very much. In defence of the proposals put forward by your group, the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u9	Thank you very much, President. The motions for resolutions put forward by this Basque Parliamentary Group are ordered on several fronts: firstly, and with regard to a diagnosis and proposals to address the challenges of justice in this twenty-first century, the Council is asked for its opinion so that this House can incorporate them into the work it is doing on a national justice strategy. Secondly, and in relation to the functions of the Council relating to training, appointments and inspection, a number of proposals have been put forward which we group together as follows: within the functions of the General Council of the Judiciary relating to the training of judges and magistrates, it is proposed to promote specialization that avoids cross-cutting understanding of matters. It also proposes training in gender-based violence, juvenile cases and hate crimes. There are also a number of proposals regarding the use of official languages other than Spanish as well as the return of Rights International Spain to its inclusion in the Council's training programmes and activities, excluded in past years in connection with a complaint with the United Nations rapporteur for certain appointments by the President of the Council in relation to the third chamber of the Supreme. In addition, it is urged to continue training in historical memory and the right of victims in crimes against humanity. Similarly, in the appointment function of the Council, it is proposed that one more year in relation to the senior positions of hearings, higher courts and Supreme Courts be set up to regularize ex ante merit and continue to promote gender equality in a larger number than women are currently represented in the positions of the judiciary. [[The Rumors Continue]] With regard to the functions of the service inspection, it is proposed in a similar way last year that the workload proposal be completed in relation to the risk to the health of judges and judges, and that this House be informed as soon as this proposal has been completed, as well as speeding up the cases of corruption both in its investigation and in the prosecution. It is also proposed that the Council continue to promote intra-judicial mediation in order to consolidate, visualize and ensure better quality, as a complementary procedural mechanism for conflict resolution and as a complementary method of judicial guardianship. It is also proposed, as in the previous year, that the Council should report and give its opinion on the right of grace and its limits in the twenty-first century, on the question of settlement in our legal system and on the Civil Registry and its model as regards its conduct and public character. The last block of motions for resolutions we are making concerns the territorial adequacy of justice. A further year is still being proposed to commit, on a definitive basis, the principle of the fullness of the higher courts of justice of the Autonomous Communities, as well as the governmental deconcentration of the functions of the Council in the governing chambers of the higher courts of justice of the Autonomous Communities. With regard to staff in the service of the Administration of Justice, it is proposed to reform their national character and the body of lawyers so that their management depends on the autonomous authorities, on those who have the personal and human resources at the service of the Administration of Justice, since they also depend on the provision and the conduct of the judicial office. Similarly, it is proposed for the body of lawyers and the rest of the staff of the Administration of Justice that their knowledge of their official languages and of autonomous law be better taken into account and supplemented. With regard to civil registrations, it is proposed to maintain them in the field of public administration, under the leadership of the body of lawyers, in order to ensure that they remain public and that better conduct is provided. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the amendments that have been put to us by other groups, I would like to say that we will accept paragraph 1 of the Socialist Group in relation to the proposal 27 of our group, and also paragraph 20 of the Group of the European People's Party in relation to the motion for a resolution 43 of our group. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u10	In defence of the proposals put forward by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u11	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Esquerra Republicana has presented 12 motions for resolutions to this Congress to address them to the General Council of the Judiciary; proposals, by the way, very similar to those we present at the time to the memory of the General Council of the Judiciary of 2015 because in essence nothing has changed since that time. First, in the Republican Left we see with concern the policy of appointments of the current General Council of the Judiciary because, they will allow me to tell you, we continue to consider that it is based on ideological positions because they are ceased or appointed who have positions in favor or, if necessary, contrary to the People's Party. In Esquerra Republicana we consider these appointments to be discriminatory, contrary to equality agreements and not based in any case on the merits of the candidates. Therefore, we again propose that the Congress of Deputies urge the General Council of the Judiciary to abandon arbitrariness in its appointment policy and respect the principles of equality, merit and capacity. Secondly, despite the fact that the trend towards entry into the judiciary is mostly female, the policy of appointments made by the General Council of the Judiciary is far from parity. We want the General Council of the Judiciary to take steps to achieve parity between women and men. Despite the fact that most of the legal career income currently corresponds to women, men are the majority in provincial hearings, the higher courts of justice, the National High Court and the Supreme Court, which are the most responsible bodies. The proportion is almost 70% on the basic scale, in the First Instance and Instruction, while the charges of the hearings, the higher courts of justice, the National Court and the Supreme Court amount to 16%. In terms of appointment policy, I would like to reflect: one of the appointments of the General Council of the Judiciary has been endorsed by the Supreme Court while others have been annulled. Well, despite the approval of the Supreme Court, which leaves much to be desired, in order to doña Ángels Vivas, judge of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, of the Social Chamber, because the judgment refers to that it did not reach the square to which it competed for having expressed its opinion by signing a manifesto in favor of the right to decide in Catalonia. This is the prime element in the appointment policy of the General Council of the Judiciary. Thirdly, in the memory of the General Council of the Judiciary there is no mention of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual and intersexual persons. Esquerra Republicana proposes that the Congress of Deputies urge the General Council of the Judiciary to guarantee access to justice for Lgbti people, developing actions to raise awareness among judges and magistrates. Fourthly, with regard to the use of languages other than Spanish, the definitive solution from the point of view of Esquerra Republicana is to make knowledge of these languages a requirement and not just a merit. The aim is to guarantee a right of citizenship and to comply with the European Charter for Minority or Regional Languages. In short, no one escapes that if the Administration of Justice is a public service, it must serve the citizenry and not be shielded by a right of judges and magistrates. We call on you to act and ensure that the right of Catalan citizens speaking in the area of Catalan countries to be able to relate to justice in their own language, Catalan, and in view of the increasing decrease in the number of judgements handed down in Catalan, we want the General Council of the Judiciary to put all the necessary means in order to fully standardise the use by judges and magistrates in the area of Catalan languages. Fifthly, we call on the General Council of the Judiciary to take on the role of reforming the administration of justice, promoting objective criteria for rationalizing the judicial system without removing the justice of citizens, increasing the resources of the courts with higher workloads, ensuring an efficient judicial office and fully implementing the new technologies, all of which are coordinated with the Ministry of Justice and the autonomous communities. I'm finishing up. The remaining proposals are shared with the other groups in the House. We urge the General Council of the Judiciary to reduce the deadlines for the approval of job relationships, as well as the orders for the creation of common procedural services, since they are approved in full only one day a month, that the Inspection Service and the Judicial Statistics Service carry out the necessary changes to respond to the new organizational model of the judicial office and to improve coordination and boost remote inspection and respect the compatibility test, despite the decisions of the State Technical Committee of the Electronic Judicial Administration. Finally, we believe that, given the data of high temporality, the General Council of the Judiciary must take steps to achieve greater stability for judges and judges. In order that it cannot be possible in these proposals presented by Esquerra Republicana, we have already advanced that we want the General Council of the Judiciary to commit itself to ensuring - this will be the next proposal in the new memory of the General Council of the Judiciary - the necessary collaboration between the different powers of the State. It must therefore grant permission to judges and judges who are required to appear in parliamentary committees when their appearance does not relate to their duties as members of the judiciary, since this fact does not undermine their independence or compromise their role. Therefore, and given the recent position of the General Council of the Judiciary, we will present in the next memory of the Judiciary a resolution in this regard. Thank you very much, President. Thank you all. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u12	Thank you very much. In defence of the proposals and amendments tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u13	President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a process such as that of the memory of the General Council of the Judiciary and the various proposals of the parliamentary groups which, in this case, has one characteristic: that it is repeated after we have just four months ago held this same procedure in this House. The circumstances and avatars of the previous legislature and of this one cause practically the presentation and defense of these proposals to take place, with that short period of time, and therefore in many of the issues we have to refer to what we said here on 30 November 2016, when we defended the proposals referring to the memory of the General Council of the Judiciary of 2014. It must also be an overview of the situation of justice that we can offer in a short process like this. [[Rumors]] Firstly, what we want to say is that we understand that an effective, modern public service, up to the twenty-first century as demanded by citizens, requires a number of reforms. It must be said today that this House has also had a subcommittee in which we are working on the National Justice Strategy, in which certainly many of the recommendations to which the groups today refer with these proposals find their framework for debate and discussion. And that is a novelty with regard to other legislatures and the debate that took place here in November. Therefore, we understand that many of the proposals that the groups address today to the General Council of the Judiciary should be addressed to ourselves, to parliamentary groups.... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u14	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please. Quiet. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u15	...that we have in our capacities the possibility to undertake those reforms and those changes that we are investigating in the Council. The vision of the Administration of Justice that encourages us is that of a genuine public service that is effective, efficient and capable of fulfilling that function, with its true function, which is to be the judicial guarantee of the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards. And for that we have to act on four axes, on four fundamental lines. These are the four points that summarize the 18 proposals that we have submitted to this report. And the first of them, the first line of action that is absolutely priority, which some groups have already said here, is to give justice a real depoliticization. It is true that in this there is a duality of criteria and there are those who talk about the politicization of justice by referring to judges and magistrates. We wish to refer to the perception that citizens receive of the independence of our judges and magistrates, to that perception that has been accredited and ratified by all surveys and with all the data from the observatories, to which reference has already been made, and by which citizens do not perceive that justice as a whole is an independent power served by judges and magistrates guided solely by their respect for and application of the law. That is the perception that citizens receive, and this is very important because it is essential to regain the prestige of the institutions to regain that criterion of depoliticization of the organs of justice. When we talk about the organs we refer to the governing bodies of justice, the governing bodies of the judiciary. That is why it is essential for us to regain the appointment by the judicial career of the Judicial Extraction Vocals of the General Council of the Judiciary. It is a proposal that we have already brought here and that we will discuss in this National Justice Strategy. It is a first line that seems to us to be a top priority: the depoliticization of the governing bodies of the judiciary, without, I repeat, compromising our criterion that we are absolutely certain that each and every judge and magistrate who makes up the judiciary, when making judgements, is guided exclusively by the application of the law. The second axis that seems essential to us is to create a genuine judicial career presided over by objective criteria of merit and capacity; something that, as the system of access to the highest strata of the judicial career is now configured, does not occur. That degree of discretion, now in the hands of the General Council of the Judiciary, has in some cases led to decisions that are not sufficiently justified, if not arbitrary. It seems to us that this independent judiciary requires that judicial career presided over, as I said, by objective criteria of merit and capacity. A third priority is the provision of more human and technical resources for our administration of justice, more human resources that obviously require a reorganization of the judicial office and also more technical resources, a true provision of technological means. In this sense, the interoperability between the different judicial systems that, due to the competent dispersion of our system, have allowed in many cases to live on each other's backs, is a situation that I could not continue to maintain for longer. Obviously, a better organization in terms of the judicial plant to adapt to the sociodemographic characteristics of a Spanish society of the twenty-first century, which has evolved and which is very different from when the old judicial organization was adopted in judicial parties of the nineteenth century, is absolutely priority. One last line in which action must be taken is in the field of procedures. Judicial proceedings must be modernised and subject to a major review, mainly - and in this all legal operators agree - in the area of criminal proceedings. The only procedural code that has not undergone a full review since the Constitution is the Criminal Procedure Code, and we need to update our criminal rules to end the undue length of many of the proceedings. As I said to you, many of these proposals, although they are actually addressed to the General Council of the Judiciary, we understand that their framework for debate and discussion, and for approval and impetus, is that National Justice Strategy in the field of the subcommittee set up in the Committee on Justice. But we also want to make reference to the fact that all these proposals have to be translated into economic means, and that is why our parliamentary group in the budgets that we have agreed with the Government, with the People's Party, has imposed a specific budget for the technological modernisation of justice of more than EUR 100 million, with a multiannual mandate, because we need a continuous and recurrent expenditure on this technological modernisation of justice. Therefore, a good opportunity to empower and boost many of these measures will be precisely to implement the budgets, with that plan for modernising justice specifically designed to put an end to the delay in the technological means of our justice. Finally, I will finish, Madam President, by announcing that we will accept two amendments, paragraphs 105 and 110 of the Group of the European People's Party, which are in line with what we have tabled, improve our proposals and are therefore likely to be adopted. The rest of the amendments tabled to our proposal will be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u16	Thank you very much. In defence of the proposals put forward by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Moya Matas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u17	Good morning. Good morning. From our parliamentary group we have put forward twenty-two motions for resolutions which are structured in a series of thematic axes, of which I will give you a brief presentation. The first group of proposals are aimed at strengthening the internal democracy of the judiciary. As we had occasion to say on the day of the appearance of the President of the General Council of the Judiciary, since the reforms of the Council carried out by organic laws 4/2013 and 7/2015, the governing body of the judges suffers from a certain presidential regime - as we said - a regime that assumes that the majority of decisions at both the political and technical levels depend directly on the president or a permanent commission formed by only seven of the judges and magistrates. In this regard, we propose a series of measures that strengthen these mechanisms of internal democracy and ensure the participation of all voices in decision-making on economic, representative rights and the regime of incompatibilities. On the other hand, we also advocate a series of measures to achieve the true objective of judicial independence, so that real mechanisms are put in place to ensure judicial independence that, in fact, as has already been said... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. Quiet. Go on, Mr. Moya.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u19	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, in this regard, we cannot forget the international calls for attention, for example the Greek report - which has already been referred to from this rostrum - on the lack of independence that comes to denounce the same report, commissioned in 2015 by the General Council of the Judiciary itself, in which there is a clear concern, a clear distrust of this independence by 75% of judges of the Spanish State. A judicial independence that we see gravely in danger lately, especially because of this new criterion that the Minister of Justice has adopted to comment publicly on the sentences, as we have seen when he concluded the sentence by which the right to strike has been interpreted restrictively. These public statements, these views on the judgments, we believe that they constitute a serious attack by the Executive on such judicial independence. On the subject of the appointment of the judiciary, we have also tabled a number of motions for resolutions in which we simply call for the criteria of equality, capacity and parity to be upheld, and in this regard allow me to stop. Our proposal number 54 - let us stay with this number when we vote - is the only one of the twenty-two in which we have received amendments from the People's Group and the Citizens' Group. In this proposal we simply say that the criteria of equality, capacity and, on equal merits, the criterion of women's preference should be safeguarded. This is a criterion that is endorsed by the Supreme Court and is an absolutely necessary criterion. Both amendments simply amend the maintenance of respect for this criterion of women's preference; the only two amendments we find in the twenty-two motions for resolutions eliminate this criterion of preference established by the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen, high courts of the Spanish State, provincial hearings, only in the presidencies of eight of fifty we find women; higher courts of justice of the autonomous communities, we find only one woman in the seventeen courts; magistrates of the Supreme Court, eleven women out of a total of seventy-nine; General Council of the Judiciary, four women out of eleven; Constitutional Court, two out of twelve. We believe that it is essential to present the criterion of parity, the preference of women on equal merits, and since spontaneously there has been no way, let us definitively establish the quota system. The case of Judge Ángels Vivas has been discussed here, who presented herself as President of the Barcelona Court. Here we find double discrimination, not only towards Mrs Àngels Vivas because of her candidacy, which was rejected because she appeared in the manifesto of the thirty-three in favour of the right to decide on Catalans and Catalans, but also because she was discriminated against having the same merits as the candidate who was finally appointed. So we insist on this criterion. On the other hand, rationalization of workloads. A report by the Council states that 45% of the Spanish State's courts exceed the desirable work modules by 150%. So it is also important to invest in rationalizing this work and to define compliance with these modules on a regulatory basis. With regard to training, initial training and continuing training of judges, we also focus on the need for them to have direct knowledge of training in human rights, historical memory, inclusive and non-endoctric language and linguistic rights, respect for linguistic rights. The other day the President of the General Council of the Judiciary surprised us when we formulated this question to him and told us that this was a new question. After fifteen years of the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages, which has been systematically breached, after years and years of denunciation, it has been telling us that this is a new issue... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u20	Quiet, please. One second, Mr. Moya. Please, ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. Go on, Mr. Moya.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u21	Thank you, Madam President. After more than fifteen years of the European Charter for Regional and Minority Languages, it remains absolutely non-compliant by the courts. One scandalous case - as has already been said in this rostrum - is that of the Olot court, in which an attitude of contempt for something as simple as exercising the right of linguistic freedom by two lawyers acting in the courtroom has been absolutely unpunished. Measures against the scourge of macho violence. The Ministry and the Council are proposing a process of co-centralisation in favour of the specialization of the courts. However, this process of co-arcalization we understand is euphemism because, in reality, it involves a physical departure from the judicial headquarters of the victims, and that seems intolerable to us. It is complicated enough for the victim to go to court so that, through this ill-known co-arcalization plan, the judicial headquarters can be removed from the victim's home to more than 50, 60 or 70 kilometres. A principle of physical proximity and, also, friendly rooms must be established so that the minor victims who have to go to these courts have at least a space of serenity before they appear before the judge. In conclusion, Madam President, all these measures are in favour of modern justice, ensuring a homogeneous, objective, predictable and secure response to the rights of citizens, promoting transparent participation, promoting control mechanisms and precisely establishing that the judiciary is one of the three pillars of the State and guarantor of the social and democratic rule of law and is not limited to being a mere counterpart to the political wills of the incumbent Government. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u22	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, for the defence of the proposals and of the amendment, Mrs Rodríguez Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u23	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group has tabled thirteen motions for resolutions in memory of the General Council of the Judiciary. In them we refer to important aspects of improving both material and human resources of the Administration of Justice. In this regard, we urge the General Council of the Judiciary to carry out individual training plans, specialization in continuing training, as well as to assume and promote training in intra-judicial mediation. We also request the Council to prepare an impact report on the Mediation Act. In improving human resources, we call on the Council, in collaboration with the competent authorities, to convene vacancies. With regard to appointments, we draw the Council's attention to the disproportionate number of women's appointments and the positions they hold in the various judicial bodies. We request that, on the basis of the principle of equality, there be a proportionality of the number of women in the judicial career and in the positions in the various hearings, higher courts of justice, Supreme Court Chambers, National Court. In order to improve the effectiveness of the material means, we call on the Council, within one month of 1 April, to forward to this House the report of the agreed measures it has put at the disposal of the judicial bodies carrying out complex economic cases in the fight against corruption. Ladies and gentlemen - the Socialist Group has said this many times - the effectiveness in the fight against corruption from the courts is not achieved by shortening the time limits for investigation, but by making available multidisciplinary offices that can collaborate, help and assist in the resolution of these complex cases. With regard to the workload, we finally urge the Council to develop workload indicators that can be presented to Congress. We are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, about an important element. In the Council's memorandum, it can be seen that the cases brought in 2016 fell in relation to 2015 by 31.4 % and that the resolutions handed down also fell by 30 %. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we know that in order to reduce litigation in this country it is only necessary to pass wrong laws. Gallardón has already shown us that, by increasing the fees and preventing the access of citizens to the courts, the litigation of the country has diminished. We believe that it has now been reduced by two bad laws, the 2015 Law, which dissipated the faults, converting the procedures of faults into minor offences proceedings, and the Criminal Prosecution Act, which prevented attestations without known perpetrator from being referred to the courts; these have decreased by 40%. We therefore ask the Council for an analysis of this particular case of a drop in litigation, which we believe is not due to the improvement of the efficiency of the administration of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, we are particularly concerned that the multidisciplinary victim care offices have not yet been set up. We are also concerned about two procedures: eviction procedures, where the vulnerability of the parties concerned is very great, and we therefore urge the Council to establish organizational measures for speed and effectiveness in the resolution of these procedures; and cases of gender-based violence, this terrible scourge, which is an open wound in our democratic society. We trust the work being done, but we think we can do more. We trust the state pact we are working on, but we believe that more can be done. Therefore, we ask the General Council of the Judiciary to analyse and study the statistics it presents to us and to take action in those courts where protection orders are far below the average of the protection orders agreed by other courts. It also submits to this Congress a study analysing whether there is a relationship between the denial of protection orders and the renunciation of victims to follow the procedure. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment to Resolution 27 of the Basque Nationalist Party to affirm and recall Article 76.2 of the Constitution and its implementation in the Organic Law of the Judiciary. This article, ladies and gentlemen, sets out the obligation to appear before the committees of inquiry of Congress and the Senate, an obligation which cannot be derogated from by the status of the person who is called to these committees, whether a member of the Government, a member of Parliament or a member of the judiciary. In the latter case there is only one limitation, also established by law, and it is that this appearance before the Commission of Inquiry will not be able to deal with data or statements relating to its jurisdictional function. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to remember that there is no excuse in this obligation to appear. It is a non-excusable obligation, it is a non-modulable obligation and, in relation to judges and judges, it is a constitutional obligation, which is not subject to the authorization of the General Council of the Judiciary, but to its communication to the Council so that it may grant permission to leave for the time necessary to appear, but not to allow it to appear, because no Spanish citizen needs or needs permission to comply with a constitutional obligation. This amendment would not have been necessary in a resolution to the General Council of the Judiciary if we had not experienced very recently a high risk of reaching a high constitutional conflict between the two branches of the State, the judiciary and the legislature, in connection with the request for the appearance of Judge Daniel de Alfonso Laso. That is why it is good to remind the President of the General Council of the Judiciary of the terms of this article, and that this House, the Congress of Deputies, is not prepared to make any attempts in another situation to fail to appear on the part of a member of the judiciary. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u24	For the defence of the proposals and amendments, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr De Barrionuevo Gener has the floor. Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. On 15 March, the President of the General Council of the Judiciary, Don Carlos Lesmes, appeared before this House to present to us the accounts of the memory of the Council of 2015. It is to be thanked that this was done with the data as of 2016, which has allowed us to have a more real and up-to-date view of the work performed by the more than 5,000 judges and magistrates in Spain. Judges who, in the spirit of service and independence, perform the functions entrusted to them by the Constitution by judging and enforcing the courts. We want to express our appreciation for his work, and it is proof of this that, as of 31 December 2016, more than 6 million cases have been resolved compared to the 5,800,000 new cases registered. Undoubtedly, these good results are the result of the work of the judges and the result of the legislative reforms carried out by the People's Group; reforms such as that of the Criminal Code, dissipating some conduct, or the reform of the Criminal Procedure Act, which states that, in general, certificates should not be sent to the examining magistrates when they did not have their own author... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u26	One second, Your Honor. Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u27	Thank you, President. That is why these measures - which the People's Party did at the time - have contributed to the reduction of litigation and, therefore, to the workload of the judges. Therefore, one of our proposals is to urge the General Council of the Judiciary to include in its memoirs a specific section, in which it reflects the impact on the various orders that have had the legislative reforms that we have adopted here in the House. We believe that by doing so we have a better assessment of our work, as it is up to us to promote, adopt and support the normative instruments necessary to improve the situation of our justice. Other measures which we commend by the Council, and which we continue to encourage it to continue to enhance, are policies of transparency, good governance and modernization. This is necessary in order to bring justice closer to the citizens and to enable them to submit their complaints, so we will proceed to assess the degree of satisfaction these citizens have with the quality of justice. We therefore call on the Council to carry out public campaigns on this tool within the scope of its powers. On the other hand, a proposal shared with almost all groups is the need for the General Council of the Judiciary to complete the studies on the workload of our courts. With this information we will be able to know how many new places are needed to give a better response to citizens in the times of resolution of their disputes and to face an improvement in the work of our judges. On this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to call on everyone, the 350 Members of this House to approve the general budgets for 2017, budgets that will allow us to offer more than 100 seats for judges and prosecutors for the coming year. The approval of the budgets will allow the convening of more than 67,000 public employment places, many of them, some 3,000, for different bodies of the Administration of Justice. But if it is so important to have a staff of judges and magistrates adapted to reality, it is no less important to train them. From the People's Party we consider that the better our judges are trained, the better they will serve society. We therefore support all these measures, which call for the training plan organized by the Judicial School to organize courses to train and sensitize judges on the international abduction of minors, gender-based violence and hate crimes, and provide the content of article 433 bis of the Organic Law on the Judiciary for the promotion and promotion of judges. As gender-based violence is one of the pitfalls of our society, we have put forward a motion for a resolution to further improve the services provided by support units for violence courts. Ladies and gentlemen, all these measures could not be implemented if we did not have modern justice. We therefore urge the Council to continue working to make the digital file a reality and to ensure that the establishment of the judicial office is finally carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, 128 motions for resolutions have been tabled, many of which are in agreement with all the groups, as the previous speakers have pointed out in the speech, such as the promotion of intra-judicial mediation for conflict resolution, the fight against violence, the fight against fraud and the need to improve the material and human resources. I therefore announce that our group will vote in favour of more than 70 of these proposals. Those we have rejected have been mainly for two reasons: one, because we consider that they are not necessary, such as the proposal number 31 of the Basque Nationalist Party, in which it asked the Council to have its own code of ethics and not the Ibero-American code, especially after the intervention that the President of the Council had already announced to us - it is stated in the Journal of Sessions on page 51 - that on December 20 this code of ethics was approved under the name of Principles of Judicial Ethics, which is the product of the elaboration of a work developed by the four judicial associations. Another reason why we have rejected some of the proposals is because the proposals escape the powers of the General Council of the Judiciary itself, such as the PDECAT proposal No. 5 to repeal the reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, which guarantees full and effective compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u28	Quiet, please. Quiet. It's powerless. I beg you, please, ladies and gentlemen, silence. I've had to ask for silence more than ten times in less than an hour. Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u29	Thank you, Madam President. With regard to the ten amendments tabled by my group, we regret that the citizens did not accept the amendment to its proposal No 98, in which we proposed to urge the General Council of the Judiciary to strengthen the guarantees in the application of the principles of equality, merit and capacity in the appointments of its competence, introducing as much clarity as possible in the scheming of each candidate. I want to finish my speech, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Lesmes did. Justice represents the ultimate safeguard of the defence of citizens' rights. Let us work for that, so that we have an effective and quality justice. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u30	Thank you very much. In five minutes the votes will begin. Thank you very much. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote, we shall read out the institutional declaration, first of all, of the celebration of the International Day of the Gypsy People. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u32	Thank you, President. Institutional declaration of the celebration of the International Day of the Gypsy People, 8 April 2017. On April 8, 1971, the first Roma/Gypsy World Congress was held in London to unite the voice of the Roma community. Since then, this date has served, in addition to recalling the history of the Gypsy people and paying tribute to the gypsy victims of the various persecutions over the centuries, to promote the recognition of their culture and values and to claim the need to continue to make progress in adopting policies in favour of the gypsy community. Today, the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies reaffirms its unanimous commitment to the Roma community so that the more than 750,000 Roma people in Spain can prosper, make their voice heard and develop their lives as citizens of full right. This year's celebration of this day is particularly relevant because the Congress of Deputies, in its Committee on Health and Social Services on 9 March last, has unanimously requested that it be declared on 8 April as the Day of the Gypsy People. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we join the celebration of the International Day of the Gypsy People and the recognition of their symbols and their anthem. Secondly, we reiterate our commitment to the cultural and social recognition of the Gypsy people and to continue working towards full intercultural coexistence. Thirdly, we reaffirm our efforts to combat all forms of discrimination that may be suffered by the Roma community. Fourthly, we will continue to promote cooperation between the various administrations in order to promote the legislative and necessary reforms to achieve greater social cohesion and protection of the values of the Roma people. Congress of Deputies, April 5, 2017. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u33	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u34	We will then also make an institutional declaration condemning the use of chemical weapons. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u35	Institutional declaration of condemnation of the use of chemical weapons. Congress of Deputies expresses its deepest desolation and strongest condemnation of the confirmation of the deliberate use of chemical weapons in the Syrian war in Jan Sheijun The use of chemical weapons is prohibited under any circumstances, but its use against the civilian population, including children, is particularly repugnant. When used against the people themselves, against the children themselves, all the limits of horror are exceeded. The Congress of Deputies expresses its willingness to work from its sphere for the maintenance and renewal of international regulations and for contributing to the most constant persecution, with the aim of bringing those responsible before the relevant courts. It therefore calls on the Government to make the necessary efforts to achieve these objectives. Spain reiterates, through its parliamentarians, its firm will to contribute to the complete destruction of all existing chemical arsenals. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u36	Let's start the voting. I remind you ladies and gentlemen that there will be more than seventy votes and that after the motions for law have been put to the vote, voting time will be shortened. I therefore request the maximum cooperation of your honourable Members. We begin with the vote on the proposal for a law of the Parliament of Navarre, amending the consolidated text of the General Law for the Defence of Consumers and Users and other supplementary laws, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2007 of 16 November. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 336 votes, plus 2 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 336 plus 2 telematics votes, 338.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u37	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u38	We then proceed to vote on the bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, amending Act No. 14/2010 of 5 July 2010 on infrastructure and geographic information services in Spain. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 plus 2 telematics votes, 339; 320 plus 2 telematics votes, 322; 4; abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u39	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u40	We now vote for the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning the promotion of the reduction of lateness in commercial operations. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 335 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u41	It's approved. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, in Marea, on the elimination of commissions for the withdrawal of staff in cash. [[File number 162/000252]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u42	We then vote on the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the elimination of cash withdrawal commissions in cashiers. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 331 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u43	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u44	We shall then vote on the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Group on the direction of tax policy and the strategy to combat tax fraud. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 159 against, 162 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u45	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u46	We shall now proceed to vote on the motions for resolutions tabled in connection with the debate on the report on the state, operation and activities of the General Council of the Judiciary and the courts and tribunals for 2015. We are voting, first of all, on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group. Proposal 1, which was voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 92 against, 243.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u47	It's rejected. Proposal No 2, which is voted on in its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 91 against, 244.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u48	It's rejected. Proposals 3, 9, 10, 17, 19 and 21. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes cast; 335 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u49	They're approved. Proposal No 4, which was voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 92 against, 242 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u50	It's rejected. Proposals 5, 6 and 18. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 votes in favour, 92 against, 242.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u51	They're rejected. Proposal number 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 27 against, 241 abstentions, 65.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u52	It's rejected. Proposal No 8, which is voted on in the terms of Amendment No 19, by the People's Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 votes in favour, 332 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u53	It's approved. Proposal No 11, which was voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 91 against, 244.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u54	It's rejected. Proposal No 12, which is voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 votes in favour, 170 against, 162 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u55	It's approved. Proposal No 13, which is voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 91 against, 244.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u56	It's rejected. Proposal No 14, which is voted on in its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 172 against, 163.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u57	It's approved. Proposal No 15, which was voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 91 against, 163 abstentions, 81.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u58	It's rejected. Proposal number 16. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 121 against, 133 abstentions, 81.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u59	It's rejected. Proposal number 20. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 202 against, 130 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u60	It's approved. Proposal No 22, which was voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 174 against, 31 abstentions, 130.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u61	It's approved. Proposal number 23. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 252 against, 81 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u62	It's approved. Proposal No 24, which is voted on in the terms of Amendment No 11, by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 votes in favour, 56 against, 130 abstentions, 148.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u63	It's rejected. Proposal No. 25, which was voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 28 against, 161 abstentions, 146.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u64	It's rejected. Proposal 26. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 135 against, 194 abstentions, 6.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u65	It's rejected. Proposal 27, which is voted on in the terms of Amendment No 1 of the Socialist Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 332 against, 1 abstention, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u66	It's approved. Proposals 28, 30, 37, 42, 44, 45, 46 and 49. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes cast; 335 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u67	They're approved. Proposal 29. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 252 against, 1 abstention, 82.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u68	It's approved. Proposals 31 and 34. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 119 against, 214 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u69	They're rejected. Proposal 32. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 221 against, 1 abstention, 113.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u70	It's approved. Proposals 33 and 40. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 votes in favour, 120 against, 131 abstentions, 83.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u71	They're rejected. Proposal 35, which is voted on in its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 92 against, 162 abstentions, 81.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u72	It's rejected. We now vote on proposals 36, 38, 39 and 41. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 90 against, 243 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u73	They're rejected. We shall then vote on proposal 43, which is voted on in the terms of Amendment No 20 by the People's Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 votes in favour, 251 abstentions, 83.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u74	It's approved. We shall then vote on proposal 47. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 90 against, 162 abstentions, 83.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u75	It's rejected. We voted on proposal 48. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 votes in favour, 301 against, 31 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u76	It's approved. We now vote on proposal 50. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 167 against, 162 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u77	It's approved. We shall then vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party. We are voting, first of all, on proposal 51. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 votes in favour, 121 against, 213.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u78	It's rejected. Proposal 52. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 323 votes in favour, 191 against, 130 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u79	It's approved. We voted on proposals 53, 55, 57, 59, 60, 62 and 69. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 334 against, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u80	They're approved. We are now voting on proposal 54, which is being voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 172 against, 133 abstentions, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u81	It's approved. We now proceed to vote on proposal 56. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 91 against, 162 abstentions, 80.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u82	It's rejected. We now vote on proposals 58, 63, 64, 66 and 70. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 votes in favour 203 against 131.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u83	They're approved. We voted on proposals 61, 65 and 71. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 170 against, 131 abstentions, 30.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u84	They're approved. We voted on proposal 67. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour 174 against 158.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u85	It's approved. We voted on proposal 68. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 252 against, 1 abstention, 80.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u86	It's approved. We voted on proposal 72. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 198 against, 132 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u87	It's approved. We shall then vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Firstly, we voted on proposal 73, which is voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 90 against, 162 abstentions, 80.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u88	It's rejected. Proposal 74, which was voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 167 against, 160 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u89	It's approved. Proposal 75. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 89 against, 160 abstentions, 80.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u90	It's rejected. Proposals 76 and 83. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 329 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u91	They're approved. Proposal 77. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 121 against, 129 abstentions, 81.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u92	It's rejected. We now vote on proposals 78 and 80. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 252 abstentions, 79.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u93	They're approved. We now vote on proposal 79. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 206 against, 124 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u94	It's approved. We now vote on proposals 81 and 82. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 91 against, 240.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u95	They're rejected. Proposal 84, which was voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 91 against, 82 abstentions, 158.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u96	It's approved. Proposal 84, which was voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Rumors]] Excuse me. [[Rumors]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Proposal 85. [[Rumors]] Excuse me! Quiet. [[Rumors]] Quiet. Substitute me for a few seconds here! [[Several Members: That]] That. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] All right. And do four things at a time. All right. [[Laughter]] Thank you very much. Thank you so much. Thank you very much. We shall then vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Socialist Group. Proposals 85, 87, 89, 90 and 93-96. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 329 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u97	They're approved. We now vote on proposals 88, 91 and 92. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 203 against, 126 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u98	They're approved. We voted on proposal 97, which is voted on in its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 203 against, 126 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u99	It's approved. Motions for resolutions tabled by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Firstly, proposal 98, which is voted on in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 42 against, 189 abstentions, 99.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u100	It's rejected. Proposals 99, 101, 102, 107 and 108. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 317 against, 1 abstention, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u101	They're approved. Proposal number 100. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 112 against, 125 abstentions, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u102	It's rejected. Proposal 103. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 234 against, 4 abstentions, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u103	It's approved. Proposals 104, 114 and 115. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 239 against, 81 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u104	They're approved. We are now voting on proposal 105, which is being voted on in the terms of Amendment No 25, by the People's Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 311 abstentions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u105	It's approved. Proposal 106. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 192 against, 128 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u106	It's approved. We shall now vote on proposals 109 and 111. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 239 abstentions, 92.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u107	They're approved. We voted on proposal 110 in the terms of amendment 26 of the People's Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 votes in favour, 246 abstentions, 84.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u108	It's approved. Proposal 112. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 236 abstentions, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u109	It's approved. Proposal 113. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 331 votes in favour, 190 against, 127 abstentions, 14.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u110	It's approved. We shall now proceed to vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. First, proposal 116. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 176 against, 62 abstentions, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u111	It's approved. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member asks for silence.]] Thank you so much for the silence. Proposal 117. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 172 against, 81 abstentions, 76.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u112	It's approved. We shall then vote on proposals 118, 120, 122, 123, 125 and 126. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 319 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u113	They're approved. We shall then vote on proposals 119, 121, 127 and 128. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 votes in favour, 239 abstentions, 90.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u114	They're approved. And we voted on proposal 124. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 328 votes in favour, 170 against, 81 abstentions, 77.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-04-06-CD170406.u115	It's approved. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was ten and fifty minutes in the morning.
