ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order referred. Questions to the Vice-President of the Government, Minister of the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations. Question by Mr Albert Rivera Díaz, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u2	Thank you, President. Vice-President, this weekend, on 1 October, some were trying - and I speak in the past - to strike democracy, but I am convinced that they will not succeed. They will not succeed because our police, our judges, our prosecutors, our councillors, our democrats are defending as real heroes what is happening these days in Catalonia. So my first words are of appreciation to those councillors, to those public offices but also officials, to all of them... [[Applauds]] All of them, thank you for defending Spanish democracy again. But, Madam Vice-President, on 1 October - as we are seeing - it was an alibi; indeed the blow to democracy is not going to take place on 1 October but they are going to try to give it the following week. The blow to democracy is the unilateral declaration of independence, which has always been in the plans of the separatist road map in Catalonia. And that is why, Madam Vice-President, I could take this opportunity today to ask you about youth unemployment, to ask you about the situation of some cases of corruption, justice, some infrastructure issues; but on a day like today, Madam Vice-President, and in the face of a challenge like this I am not going to ask the government a question to put its finger in the eye. I am not going to go in here to talk about issues that we can talk about next week or next week, I want to take this turn to show my unbridled support for the Government of the nation, to show unbridled support for the judiciary, to show in this Parliament that, despite our public discrepancies, we are on this issue together. [[Applauds]] That is why I ask you, Madam Vice-President, for serenity, proportionality but firmness to defend democracy. On October 1 he will win Spanish democracy because, precisely, he will win the laws and the rule of law. Here 23-F some tried to load democracy and did not succeed and next week no one is going to strike democracy because we are going to prevent it among all. Be convinced that this group will support you. We are many Spaniards who defend this and it was many Spaniards who defended this democracy so that today we could get here; therefore, let them take it out of their heads, no one is going to burden our rights and freedoms, no one is going to take away the nationality of most Catalans and no one is going to stop us from living together. We will have to rebuild this project in the future, for sure, but we will have to do it together and without complexes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u3	The Vice-President of the Government has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Rivera, I agree with you on a very important thing besides that unity and it is that we are living perhaps an unprecedented historical moment for the efforts of some of the independenceists to deny centuries of shared history among Spaniards and to end decades of democratic stability for which many of our parents fought, taking over for this without any scruple of the will and voice of all Catalans. We must recognize those who, at a very difficult time and there, with enormous tension, are exercising their freedom with all its consequences and undermining the rights of all Spaniards. They are doing so against the law that, unlike some people think, protects us all, against the constitutional foundations that all Spaniards voted for - who are we to deny the voice and the vote to all Spaniards - but also against the statute and the institutions of self-government in Catalonia. They intend to end the state, but what they are doing is undermining democracy, and we are not going to allow that; they intend to separate the Spaniards at the cost of dividing the Catalans. What a sad performance that of some of the leaders of Catalonia! That's why there's not going to be a referendum, because it's illegal, because it's undemocratic, and it's not going to be possible. That is why I thank you for unity, because I believe that there is no separation on benches when we all represent that popular sovereignty that is wanted to be violated that Sunday. I think there may be differences, but they are nuances when the important thing is the defense of everyone. We will be united - and I thank you for that unity - on 1 October, but those of us who have always defended dialogue within the law and consensus within the constitutional loyalty I believe that we must remain united from now on; united in the face of unilateral declarations, because the only unilaterality that is possible in Spain is that of 47 million Spaniards: neither referendums, nor transitional laws, nor unilateral declarations. Spain is a great country. It is true that the times are dislocated, but this country has been able to defend its democracy for many years and, even if only out of respect for those who with great generosity defended their freedom as the best expression of human dignity, we will defend the freedom of all Spaniards now and from now on. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE ANY ACTION TO AVOID MORE POLITICAL CHARGES IN CATALUONE? [[File number 180/00348]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u5	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u6	Thank you very much, President. Mr Catalá, Minister of Justice, I think it's fatal, but I'm not going to ask you a massage question, I'm not from Citizens. The question is: does the Government intend to do anything to prevent further arrests of Catalan political positions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u7	For the answer, the Minister of Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u8	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr Rufián, I believe that in Spain detentions are not carried out because of the profession or profession of anyone, detentions are ordered by the judges in respect of persons who are involved in hypothetical commission of crimes. Therefore, as we believe in the rule of law and the separation of powers, the Government has nothing to do but simply facilitate the work of justice and respect judicial independence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u9	Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u10	Thank you very much, President. Mr Catalá, Minister of Justice, I am sincere to you, the Republican Left Group is not going to reply to a minister reprobated by the good people of this Congress today. I'm only going to ask you two things: the first, to see if there's any leftover ferri and some 'go get them' to go find the good people who are drowning in the Mediterranean and, the second, to see if they stop stopping people in front of their children simply for their ideas. I am addressing today the Democrats who may be seeing us, the good people who may be seeing us. Catalonia, simply, no more or less, wants to recover the country that was stolen from it eighty years ago. [[Rumors]] Two. We also do it for Spain, we also do it for the rest of the stateless nations of that country called Spain. We say without any problem: live Castile free; live Andalusia free; gora Euskal Herria askatuta; live Galicia ceibe; visca los Paísos Catalans. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u11	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u12	And three. Next Sunday's self-determination referendum... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u13	Wait a minute, Mr. Rufián. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u14	Don't get nervous.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u15	Go on, Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u16	Next Sunday's self-determination referendum doesn't call for independence. Going to vote that day doesn't make you independent; it makes you a Democrat, it makes you brave and it makes you antifascist, by this order. And I refer to the facts. Thank you very much. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u17	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u18	Thank you, President. Mr. Rufian... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u19	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u20	Mr Rufián, I thought that you, who sometimes even abandon your responsibility in this House to be in Catalonia, had some more information about what is really going on and that you were going to come here today to talk, for example, about defending the mayors and councillors who are being coerced there in Catalonia; that perhaps you were going to come and talk about those people who are being painted by the facades of their homes or their shops; that you were going to come and talk and defend the rights and independence of judges and prosecutors from those who manifest and want to crush them to condition and coerce them. That is what is happening in Catalonia these days, Your Honor: coercion, threats, violations of citizens' freedoms and yet it seems that you are not so concerned about that. It seems that you are against the judges, against the teachers, against the mayors, against the officials, against the police, of course, who can be harassed and prevented from doing their job, and it seems to you that all that does not matter, does not worry the least. Your Honor, nothing is built from the lie. There are no political arrests, there are arrests ordered by the justice of persons being investigated by the commission of crimes. Misappropriation, prevarication, disobedience are crimes in our Penal Code, and if you don't think it's right to propose that the Penal Code be changed. And it is a lie to say that voting is the manifestation of democracy. No, Your Honor, it is voting within the framework of the law and with respect for the rules that we have all given ourselves. Voting on its own is not democratic. Many fascist regimes have voted many times and that is not why they were more democrats. [[Applauds]] We are sure that what we will achieve among all is that Catalonia remains in Spain. It remains a very important piece, there are still freedoms, democracy and, above all, guarantees and guarantees of rights. It would be fine, Your Honor, if we all worked for that. Thank you very much. [[Mr Tardà i Coma and Mr Rufián Romero, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, are leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u21	Thank you, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED GONZALEZ ELORZA GONZALEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHY IS THE GOVERNMENT COMMITMENTS IN REFUGEES? [[File number 180/00350]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u22	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Odón Elorza González, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Elorza, you have the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u23	Minister, we socialists defend unity, we defend the law, the rule of law and especially we believe in the strength of dialogue. Yesterday was a sad day; yesterday was a sad day because a deadline was met and the Government has not fulfilled precisely its commitment to the European Union to also comply with the Geneva Convention and to make the reception of 17,400 refugees a reality, in that enormous crisis that causes deaths every day in that Mediterranean that has become - indeed - a common pit. Please, why have you not fulfilled your commitments? But don't throw balls out and don't say it's the procedure, the bureaucracy or Brussels. Don't make us Spaniards think that their policy is more and more like the one that defends the extreme right of Germany or the friend of President Rajoy, Mr Trump. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u24	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u25	Mr Elorza, it is not a question of throwing balls out, it is a question of seeing the real reality of the situation that we have experienced with this migratory pressure and above all the situation of the refugees. I must tell you that the Government is not satisfied with the outcome, but I must also tell you that from the very beginning the Spanish Government has put in place all the mechanisms that were established by the European Union in order to be able to relocate and resettle all the people to whom we had committed ourselves. You well know that the possible relocation of up to 15,888 people and the resettlement of 1449 were initially agreed upon. Every step has been taken to be able to do so, the Government of Spain was a pioneer, Spain was one of the first countries that already offered a pilot plan to relocate 50 people on October 8, 2015. That's what we've been doing. Mr. Elorza, every day we have been increasing - gradually, as they have come both relocated and resettled - the number of people to whom we continue to offer that they may come. I repeat that we are not satisfied, but be assured that we have not failed to perform any functions, nor have we evaded our responsibilities to bring all the people to whom we had committed ourselves. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u26	Mr. Elorza.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u27	The reality, Minister, is that this government has only brought to Spain - it does not arrive - 12% of all the commitment and the effort of this government is tremendously inferior to that which has developed countries such as Ireland or Portugal, which have given us an example. In addition, there were thousands and thousands of citizens in different cities and communities in Spain who were willing to welcome, to help integrate, to include. It's disappointing. From all this comes also a negative projection of values: the value of international solidarity. How do we educate people in this way if basic commitments are not met from the institutions? We have the impression that you are dealing with the issue of refugees as if it were a commodity. And I explain myself, you say that there is no offer and, since there is no offer, the demand for Spain cannot be met. Or you also say in the press: There is no refugee stock. And he adds: We have been asking for discounts in the quota for years. This is not normal, treating these people in this very grave situation - because they escape from war and famine - with so little political effort is unacceptable. Shame on the country before the world, shame on the institutions. As the CEAR and other NGOs say: please do the following in this solidarity effort; change the model of migration management, humane eligibility criteria, and, according to the EU, change relocation and resettlement programmes for those who request it. It cannot be that you are more and more distant from the feeling, I repeat the values, which in Spain are fundamental... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u28	Your shift is over, Mr. Elorza. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Elorza, again insist on a speech that is logical that you can politically maintain. That's how I get it. But I am sure that you do not think that I as a minister or the government are not insensitive to the situation, I am convinced. From the point of view of resettlement all the places have been offered, but they have not been offered now, they have been offered in the National Refugee Resettlement Programme in 2015 and 2016. They're all offered and we're hoping they can come even more. And as long as they are pending, everyone who can come will do so. Regarding relocations, we have explained it by active and passive and you were now saying that we have to change the model, that we have to change the system. We'll have to see it and change it, but we've adapted to the system. I can assure you that it is rigorously true that the Greek refugee office has informed us that, despite our insistence - I will now give it to you - they cannot send us anyone else. Commissioner Avramopoulos thanked Spain for its solidarity. At first there were 160 000, after the pact with Turkey they were reduced to 90 000 and then... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u30	Your shift is over, Minister. Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON JUAN ANTONIO DELGADO RAMOS, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT DOING TO PROTECT THE IMAGEN AND THE PRESTITUTION OF THE WORKERS AND WORKERS OF CIVIL CARE DISPLACED IN CATALUNIA? [[File number 180/00342]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u31	What is the Government doing to ensure the prestige, security, well-being and respect for the labour rights of police and civilian guards sent to Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u32	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u33	Your Honor, I appreciate you joining the National Police in extending your question, because according to the text that I had, you were dealing exclusively with what the Government was going to do to defend the rights of the Civil Guard. Your Honor, I say to you that both the Civil Guard and the National Police are two state security bodies that have a great image and that have great prestige, and the Government of Spain has to do, after 193 and 173 years of experience in both bodies, being the most valued institutions, is to defend what their rights are but, at the same time, to defend that daily work, and the best way we have to defend it is to ensure that they can work freely and that, at the same time, they can also have their own rights guaranteed, that there are some who seem to want to violate them constantly and insistently. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u34	Mr. Delgado.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u35	Minister, in these days we have seen agents of the Civil Guard surrounded in buildings and their vehicles destroyed. If that were not enough, the officers have been improvised, many forcibly, and housed in ruts, and are textual words of a National Police officer when referring to the cruises. Officers are far from their families, their units; they do not know their service plans, their schedules and to what extent their labour rights are also in a state of emergency. Their labour rights have been violated without any justification. You put them on the trigger by using agents who have not been involved in law and order management in Catalonia for years. Minister, now that your Government exercises direct control of the accounts in Catalonia, including the management of the payroll of the Mossos d'Esquadra, you will be able to see that wage discrimination they suffer compared to their colleagues in the Mossos d'Esquadra and the Ertzaintza: 700 euros less they charge. Is that what you want from the civilian guards? Now, for you, the police and the civilian guards are the best, but although they criticized you when they searched the seats of the People's Party, as Mrs Cifuentes did in the framework of Operation Lezo. [[Applauds]] You love the civilian guards a lot, yes; but when you see one of the UCO, someone gets his face thrown away. The reality is that you use and abuse your professionalism and prestige by sending you to a conflict that you, because of your lack of political will and democratic dialogue, have provoked. It's good to talk about the Civil Guard and then turn your back on them when it comes to bulletproof vests, working hours, union rights, social conditions. [[Applauds]] Stop using the Civil Guard. And finally, Minister, do you know what I'm telling you? Let the Civil Guard live! [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u36	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u37	Your Honor, I am surprised by the statements you have made; you do not believe them either; yes, yes, I tell you sincerely. The Civil Guard is fulfilling its duty and is developing its work as it has always been doing. Look, after what you just said, what I can assure you is that, of course, as you cannot defend the Civil Guard neither the image nor its prestige is calling victims those who assaulted them in Alsasua. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Nor can you defend the image of the Civil Guard when they receive the relatives of the aggressors. That's how you can't do it. And can you not accept that in Madrid you could put a street for the civilian guards? That's how you do it. You do not defend the image or the Civil Guard when you call Otegui 'a man of peace'. That's how you can't. Yes, yes, they call him 'a man of peace'. [[Several Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats): Very well! Yes, yes!-Applause.-Protests]] And above all, look, Mr. Delgado...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u38	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet. [[Mrs. Montero Gil moves her arms up and down, as she says, "Get down a little bit...]] Mrs. Montero, please don't make any gestures. Quiet. [[Major Perales: You are the president of the whole House!]] Quiet. Continue, Minister; you have ten seconds left. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u39	What you must not do is insult the Civil Guard by applauding those who attack it and then saying that it is you who defend it. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause.- Rumors.-Mr Turrion Churches: What a shame!]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF IRENE MARÍA MONTERO GIL, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, THE CATALIAN POLITICAL FORCES AND THEIR POLITICAL OPPOSITION IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/00344]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u40	Question by Mrs Irene María Montero Gil, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u41	Thank you, Vice President. Good morning. Minister, can you assure us that you have dissolved the para-police structures that you used in a partisan manner to attack Catalan politicians and also your political opposition in Spain? [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u42	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u43	Mrs. Montero, nothing has dissolved, because it has never existed, and I have never seen parallel structures in the police. [[Laughter]] Therefore, neither to attack the Catalan political forces nor the opposition is there a parallel structure in the police. In this ministry, the security forces and bodies are dedicated to carrying out their work, to protecting and guaranteeing the safety of citizens and to ensuring the exercise of our rights and freedoms, as well as to investigating all crimes committed by those who commit them. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u44	Mrs. Montero.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u45	Thank you, Vice President. Minister, it is a disgrace, because what I am telling you has been said by this House, not by my parliamentary group, and what you have done is a real scandal, one of the biggest scandals for democracy. [[Several Members: Very well!]] Do you know what's called what you've done? Do you know what it is called to play dirty by creating para-police structures to attack political opponents and thus try to influence public opinion by intoxicating and creating montages? It's called Donald Trump's cheating, Minister. [[Rumors]] That is what you do, and every time you do that you lack the respect and the name of our democracy and the name of the security forces and bodies of our country's state. That is why I wanted to talk to you today about democracy - perhaps that is why the Vice-President did not want to answer the question and left you with the responsibility on it - because you, in this territorial crisis that we are experiencing these weeks in our country, have deepened this crisis with one of the biggest anti-democratic offensives we have seen since the 1978 Constitution was signed. [[Rumors]] And the most miserable thing is that you are doing this in the name of law and in supposed defense of democracy. You have used the Ministry of the Interior to fabricate false evidence against the political adversary, the Ministry of Finance to launder the black money of your defrauding friends with a fiscal amnesty that has been declared out of the law and unconstitutional and you have used the Ministry of the Interior, the State Attorney General's Office and also the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office to slap your corrupt comrades and to protect the corrupt of your party, Minister; not of any other, of your party. [[Applauds]] And yet, you are systematically outside the law and outside the rule of law. So, when we talk about rules, law and democracy, count it less and meet it more, Minister. The main problem is that you do not have any proposals for Catalonia or Spain, that your proposals are rubber balls, that your proposals are water cannons and also jail, or as one of your spokespersons has said: loaves like loaves. [[Rumors]] We have a proposal for Catalonia and we have never shared the road map either of Mr Puigdemont or of Mr Junqueras, but we know that in democracy we must have State responsibility and be a Democrat. [[A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]] So I ask you not to be afraid, minister, to be brave, not to make any historical mistakes that will do irreparable damage... [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u46	Your shift is over, Mrs. Montero. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Montero, not by yelling is more right. [[Mr. Gómez-Reina Varela utters words that are not perceived]] Let me tell you that the law of the funnel is not good for anyone. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u48	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u49	When the forces and security forces, according to you, investigate the PP it is because it deserves it and something is doing; when they investigate another political force it turns out that what is done is to attack it and carry out a political persecution. No, the law of the funnel, no; the police are to prosecute all kinds of crimes, whoever committed them. I'll tell you one thing. It is true, I respect but do not share the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry, and you will understand that I have a right to do so. I will also tell you that five complaints and two complaints have been lodged. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u50	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u51	They've been filed by the Supreme Court. So, all I'm saying is... [[Rumors.-Mr. Matínez-Maillo Toribio: Shut up!-Mr.Montero Gil: What do you mean, shut up?-Mr. Iglesias Turrion: They're insulting us.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u52	Please, Mr. Iglesias and Mrs. Montero, do not interrupt the reply. [[Protests by Mrs Montero Gil]] If you have to make any allegations based on the Rules of Procedure, you do so at the end of the question, but I will not consent to interrupt speakers in the answer to the question. [[Protests]] I have not consented before, when it was you who were asking the question, and I will not do it now, when it is the government. Please respect the speaker in speaking time. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u53	I believe that what you should do, in the end, is to reflect and decide on which side you are on: whether of those who decide that the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary is the important thing or of those who prefer to jump it to the toaster, more typical of other regimes, that you know a lot about it. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO GUARANTEE THE WORK AND DignITY OF MEN AND WOMEN OF CIVIL CARE AND NATIONAL POLICE DESIRING THESE DAYS IN CATALUNIA, IN THE CHALLENGES OF THE LAST TIMES THAT ARE RISKED BY THE SAFETY OF ALL CATALANS? [[File number 180/00355]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u54	Question by Mr Miguel Ángel Gutiérrez Vivas, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, our State Security Forces and Bodies are one of the institutions most valued and respected by all Spaniards. However, in these days we are witnessing how a few want to impose a blow on democracy, on a majority of Catalans. We are seeing how a few want to break their own democratic laws to impose their will on many. In this environment, Minister, many of the men and women of our Security Forces and Bodies must work these days. We have seen these days how harassment is done, we have seen the Civil Guard spend a nightmare night at the Economics Council in Catalonia, Barcelona. We've seen how they harassed the headquarters of the Manresa Civil Guard. We have seen how there are scraps to prevent them from resting and working effectively. We've seen how police work in the cities of Catalonia is being harassed these days. We have seen how there are radio stations that urge citizens to denounce the movements of our Security Forces and Corpses. How does the Government intend to guarantee the work and dignity of our State Security Forces and Bodies, of the men and women of the National Police Corps and of the Civil Guard who are destined these days in Catalonia, in the face of these serious events that put the security of all Catalans at risk? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u56	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u57	Thank you, President. Your Honor, we are doing our utmost from the Government to ensure that both the agents of the Civil Guard and the National Police who are currently performing their duties in Catalonia, precisely to ensure compliance with the law, to protect and guarantee the rights and freedoms of all, not of a few, but of all, have the best possible conditions. It is logical that we are concerned that the agents of the Civil Guard and the National Police have to deal in some cases with added and external complications when carrying out their work, which is nothing other than ensuring compliance with the law and also ensuring the safety of all citizens. That is why we believe that it is intolerable for the work of the State Security Forces and Bodies to be hampered; it is intolerable for them to be attacked against their vehicles; it is intolerable for them to be asked to report on their own movements, because that undoubtedly hinders their actions and also poses a risk to the safety of all; it is intolerable for them to be treated as enemies when the civilian guards and the police are public servants who fulfil the responsibility of guaranteeing the freedom of all and the free exercise of all our rights. That is why we are going to take all legal measures to prevent the lack of respect for the agents of the State Security Forces and Corpses and to make it difficult, to the extent possible, for any attack that can be made against their dignity and against freedom, and above all on the movements they have to make in the performance of their duty. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u58	Mr. Gutierrez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u59	Thank you, Minister. To do their job well, police and civilian guards need more than good will; they need precise and clear instructions, which we do not know if they are being handled in that way; they need a chain of command that is capable of ensuring the transmission of those instructions, of those clear rules, of what they have to do. All the State Security Forces and Bodies that are currently working in Catalonia need proper coordination. Your Honor, on some occasions we see a lack of loyalty from the dome of the Mossos d'Esquadra; we see a lack of loyalty to their companions, a lack of loyalty on the street. We attend the crime show in front of police officers - of mossos d'Esquadra in these cases - who are unstoppable to what is happening. Please do not allow these dysfunctions which are currently taking place in Catalonia to endanger the safety of all Catalans. The political dimension of this act can never be above the security of all the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u60	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Gutiérrez, don't have the slightest doubt about what we're doing and what we're going to do. I want to bring to the peace of mind his whole group and that of the whole House that there is a hierarchy in command, that the command is exercising all its powers, that there is a magnificent collaboration and coordination between the State Security Forces and Bodies, and that we are also putting everything on our side so that the collaboration with the Mossos d'Esquadra, to which we have gone to assist in everything that is necessary, can result, on the one hand, in the enforcement of the law, the guarantee of freedom for all, and at the same time also the protection of all the rights of the agents who are right now there. It is true that they are two highly valued institutions and that is why we have said that many of the acts that have been produced are intolerable, and that we will certainly defend all the dignity of the agents, also that of the mossos. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON MIKEL LEGARDA URIARTE, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: HOW LONG DOES HE THINK TO KEEP IN CATALUNIA, AS AN EXCEPTION, TO THE CIVIL GUARDS AND NATIONAL POLICIES DISPLACED FROM OTHER PLACEES? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00339]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u63	Question by Mr Mikel Legarda Uriarte, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u64	Yes, thank you very much, President. Minister, how long will you keep the Civil Guard and the Police carried out from other parts of the State in public order in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u65	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u66	Thank you, President. I hope that, after answering several questions on this matter, it will be clear, first of all, that we from the Government have sent reinforcements from the National Police and the Civil Guard to Catalonia to support the Mossos d'Esquadra in the maintenance of public order. This is not an exception; it is a decision we have taken to help comply with the orders of the Catalan prosecutor's office to intervene to prevent the holding of an illegal referendum, which was suspended by the Constitutional Court. The presence in Catalonia will therefore be maintained as long as necessary to ensure, first, that the law is complied with; secondly, that the rights are respected; and thirdly, that the freedoms of all Spaniards are guaranteed. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u67	Mr. Legarda.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u68	Yes, Minister, but for our group this police and other measures to deal with the political situation in Catalonia are not the right ones. We have told you and this House has also told you, resorting to the prosecution's judicial and police force is not the solution, but it is not even the way. You call it a challenge to democracy and legality, but forget that democracy demands equal rule of law and citizen consent. But I'm going to tell you more, this measure is unconstitutional and illegal. The application of articles 38 and 42 of the Law on State Security Forces and Bodies covers the purpose of direct intervention of the Civil Guard and Police in Catalonia outside their competence, and it is the ministry that directs the Mossos d'Esquadra. However, you, directly or indirectly through the prosecution, violate what that same law says in your second final provision, which states that these articles were applicable in Catalonia with the 1979 Statute, but not with the 2006 Statute. And it is that the current article 164 of the Statute does not allow the application in Catalonia of these two articles of the Law on State Security Forces and Bodies, just as from the beginning they were never applicable in Euskadi. Articles 38 and 42 of the Act cannot therefore be used to mobilize the Civil Guard and the Police in Catalonia in public order and to direct the Mossos d'Esquadra. Moreover, the PP from the outset was aware that the 2006 reform of the Statute undermined the possibilities for State intervention in Catalonia, through the Forces and Bodies Act, and that is precisely why it amended the draft reform of the Statute, but its amendments were not accepted. He did not then appeal to the Constitutional Court under article 164. Now, by applying the Forces and Bodies Act, he cheats legally and constitutionally, and so does the prosecutor's office to his dictation. The government, I suppose, will do the same because the C.T. never suspends its decisions and its sentences take years. In short, you fail to comply with the law you claim to defend. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u69	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u70	I'm sorry to disagree with you, but on the other hand I'm proud to do so. I do not think I will give you any satisfaction: it is not unconstitutional the application that we have made of the law, and I regret to say that the functions that we now have entrusted are none other than to collaborate with the Mossos d'Esquadra in the surveillance of public space, even if you think that we should not do so. If there is going to be an illegal referendum and we are entrusted with certain functions, there is no doubt that we will also do so. The Government of Spain will therefore ensure the peaceful coexistence of all Catalans, and the State Security Forces and Corpses must also be occupied. We will do and comply with all those delegations that the prosecution and the judicial authority command us, as are also bound by the Mossos d'Esquadra. The Government must ensure the rights of Catalans who want to remain Catalan, Spanish and European. That is why we respect more than anyone the law and self-government of Catalonia, with which we have always collaborated. The Government, therefore, is complying with the guarantee of the freedoms and rights of all Catalans. To this end, the Civil Guard and the National Police will support the Mossos d'Esquadra. Strengthening collaboration for the maintenance of peaceful coexistence and democracy is not only a highly positive and necessary measure, but is what a responsible Government has to do and what the Spanish Government is going to do. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON César Joaquín Ramos Esteban, of the Socialist parliamentary group, which formulates to the Lord Minister of Foment: how do you think to prevent the government that repeats their incident by having in the extreme trains like the events this summer? [[File number 180/00353]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u71	Questions to the Minister for Development. Question by Mr César Joaquín Ramos Esteban, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u72	The question is very simple, let us hope that the minister will give us a convincing answer. What are you going to do to prevent Extremadura from feeling ashamed for the rail service he has?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u73	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u74	Thank you. Mr Ramos, we explained this to you last Monday in the visit to Mérida, accompanying the president of the Extremadura Board: giving the greatest impetus in recent history to the improvement and modernization of the railway system in Extremadura. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u75	Mr. Ramos.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u76	Thank you, President. Today, in the monothematic debate, the extremists come to say that there is a region in Spain called Extremadura, and that the extremists feel disappointed and not on equal opportunities with the rest of the Spaniards. Today I come to put a voice to the thousands of extremists who feel outraged by the railway services we have in Extremadura. This summer has been a shame. This summer the thirty incidents that have occurred only in July show that Extremadura does not have the same conditions as the rest. Already said by a driver in June this year: this is going to be much worse, this summer is going to be horrible. We have seen images of ninety passengers in the middle of the camp, with a sun of justice, having to take refuge the children and the elderly in the cars of the Civil Guard so that there would be no greater evils. That's the situation of Extremadura, that's the situation of his train. It is true that in this circumstance all the governments, all those who have passed through the Spanish Government, are responsible, we are not going to blame anyone, we are going to blame everyone who left us. It is true that Extremadura is a region that has stretches in which you cannot travel more than 30 kilometers per hour. Extremadura is the only region that has not a single electrified kilometer. Extremadura is the only region that has no long-distance train. Extremadura is a region that has been abandoned by the Spanish Government because it believes that extremists do not have to have the same opportunities. We ask for what others have, we want to compete on equal terms. The extremists can have the best trained people, the best young people with the best university in Extremadura, but if we don't have the best trains, if we don't have the same conditions as the rest we won't be able to compete. That's what we ask: we ask for what others have. We believe that it is justice, we believe that Extremadura deserves it, we believe that the extremists deserve it, and that is why we ask the government to do what it has to do. Put an end to the completion of the EVA, solve the problems of breakdowns and make the extremists feel like first-class citizens, because today we feel like second-class citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u77	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u78	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Mr. Ramos. I do not share your claim that they are second-rate citizens, but I believe that the request you make is a fair one, and I have said so recently in Merida. I will also not look back to talk about non-compliances, because you know perfectly well that there have been important ones at the stage of your party, but I can assure you that we will comply - and we are fulfilling - with one hundred percent of our commitments to Extremadura. They know that we are already working on the line between Madrid and Oropesa. We committed ourselves to taking public information out of the information study - it is 1120 million euros - and we did it on August 25th. He knows that we are working between Talayuela and Plasencia, where there is a section that has already been reactivated between Navalmoral de la Mata and Casatejada, and before the end of the year we will tender for the adaptation of five projects. He also knows that we are working with almost 1 billion euros of execution, which accounts for 76% of all the investment that corresponds, between Plasencia and Badajoz. You see it there, you go to the works and you know that we are fulfilling and that we are realizing a new milestone every week. Last Thursday we started to ride the track between Merida and Badajoz, also fulfilling another commitment. We will also act on the conventional line between Monfragüe and Humanes, with an investment of 56 million euros and we will do so soon, as soon as we finish the projects this year. We have also committed and have already begun the bidding procedures of the conventional stage in what is the bypass of Merida, and we are giving the news that we gave on Monday with the project of Badajoz to Puertollano, in which we have committed to make an important electrification. In the summer of 2019 we will finally complete the completion of the works of the entire extreme section up to Plasencia, which is what we have right now, and its subsequent electrification in the year 2020. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON JAVIER SÁNCHEZ SERNA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED KINGDOM WE CAN IN COMMUNITY CAN IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: WHAT PROJECTS DO THE GOVERNMENT HAVE TO SOLUTION THE PROBLEM SUSCITATED BY THE REVENUE IN THE SURVEILLANCE OF THE EVIDENCE IN MURCIA? [[File number 180/00341]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u79	Question by Mr Javier Sánchez Serna, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u80	Thank you, President. Minister, what projects do you have to solve the problem of the surface arrival of the AVE in the city of Murcia?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u81	Minister. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen, I beg you, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u82	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Our project is very clear: Murcia is going to have AVE, Murcia is going to have underground, and in a very short time that is going to be a reality. That is the project of the Government of Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u83	Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u84	Minister, since 2001 you have been saying that the AVE would be buried in Murcia, you have promised it in every election campaign and even in this legislature you have approved proposals that were in that direction. Now we find that in a hurry and without consulting the neighbors they will raise a wall of 9 kilometers long and 5 meters high that will leave the city of Murcia in two. Minister, answer me one thing: would you want something like this for your city, for Santander? It is not true that there are no alternatives. As the railway unions argue, there are technical and viable solutions that are already being implemented elsewhere in Spain. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u85	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u86	I'll propose two. The first is that the AVE could reach the Beniel station while the roads in Murcia are underground, using shuttle trains that would connect Beniel and Murcia in eight minutes. The second would be to use hybrid trains that would allow catenaries to be suppressed, and in this way to preserve the steps at the level by which thousands of neighbors and neighbors cross each day. What is not acceptable, Minister, is to erect a wall of shame that leaves Murcia in two and leaves 200 000 neighbours isolated. It is not acceptable to lift this wall of shame by an election campaign photo, which is what basically explains that things are done in a hurry and badly done. [[Applauds]] The neighbours of Murcia do not deserve any more lies or snorkels, nor do they deserve to be treated as problems of public order, which is what you did on your visit to Murcia, threatening the neighbors, saying that you came to make them firm and sending the anti-disturbants to the streets. You are very wrong; a train cannot pass over a city and cannot pass over people's rights. [[Applauds]] Minister, what you have to do is listen to those affected, listen to the neighbors of southern Murcia, fulfill the promised and bury the roads, because Murcia does not want walls. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u87	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. You're asking me if I'd want Santander to have something like what Murcia's going to have. Where to sign? [[Applauds]] Frankly, I don't know what you want in Podemos, because I'm going to Murcia and I actually see you at the front of the banner and the demonstration so that the high speed can arrive and the underground can be made; I'm going to Pamplona and I see you at the front of the demonstration at the front of the banner so that the high speed train will not be made and no railway action will be made. What's the difference between Murcia and Pamplona? That in Murcia the People's Party governs, and that's why you're there doing what you're doing, and that I've actually denounced. [[Greetings.-Mr. García Aegean: Yes]] How am I not going to report you putting mattresses on the track at night and breaking the brakes on a train that might have derailed? How am I not going to report it? How am I not going to report people getting in the way with pictures of children and trains having to stop by visual approach? [[Mr. García Aegean: What a barbarity!]] How are we not going to report that sort of thing that you support? These are issues that question the safety of people and of course cannot be allowed. You can claim and claim; I assure you that we will also fulfil our commitments here, which are very important. To begin with, run how we are running - I have already mounted on the laboratory train - the section between Monforte del Cid and Murcia, and that will make the works end in February this year and start the circulation in tests. This represents EUR 1.5 million of investment. Then the subterranean: 4 kilometers of subterranean. It is that there is, Your Honor, no city in Spain, none, that right now has a project with the contracting company of the first 500 meters stretch in the Senda de los Garres, in the part of Santiago el Mayor, Ronda Sur, as is currently happening in Murcia. In very few days we will approve a supplement in which we will increase another 580 meters; in total 1,100 meters of underground already under construction. And we will also process, as we have said, a project that we will finish this year to extend the underground to the station of El Carmen and Barriomar. In the end, 4 kilometers and 586 million euros. What are you worried about? I guess nothing, because that's not a compromise or a word of mouth; it's a real reality, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY GIFT JESUS TO THE MARTINEZ, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF FOOD: HOW IS THE MINISTER OF FOOD COMBATING THE THREE OF HIGH VELOCITY ON NAVARRA? [[File number 180/00343]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u89	Question by Mr Íñigo Jesús Alli Martínez, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u90	Mr de Fomento, you are well aware of the shortcomings of the Navarra Forum on the railway network. He knows that the radius of the route and the width of the track do not allow no longer high-speed train, but not even the high-performance train. I mean, we have an infrastructure a hundred and fifty years ago. We are in the 19th century and sadly the current outlaw government of Navarra remains anchored in the period of botijo and cartage. Union of the Navarro People, because it wants to look for the social majority, for all the Navarros, for the development, the modernity and the vertebration of our community, has logically made its agreement with the People's Party in the General Budgets of this year, for the general interest of all the Navarros, and therefore of all the Spaniards. I know, Minister - you just said it in reply to the spokesman for the Podemos Group - that our community is living something absolutely unusual. It's the upside-down world. When we are seeing that all communities are demanding that the State invest in their community, it has met with a community, which is the Foral Community of Navarra, which it has said, first of all: do not bring us the high-speed train, and then it has rectified and says it dilates the times. Sadly the answer to this situation - Minister, you know it very well and you have suffered it too, as all shipwrecks are suffering - is the following: the current partners of the foreign government of Navarre - Bildu, the white mark of Bildu in Navarre, which is Podemos Navarra, and United Left, or Left-Ezkerra, as it is called in my community - are against this infrastructure to the point that they have threatened the government of Navarre with paralyzing the general budgets of Navarre for the next year. This is the sad reality of my community. And here, Minister, I come to tell you this: all the shipwrecks or most of them want, we need the high-speed train; the companies in Navarre want and need the high-speed train, and therefore count on the Navarro People's Union to enforce our agreement, because you also know very well that my party defends the competences of my community, but here we prioritize the common good. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u91	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u92	Thank you, Mr President; thank you very much, Mr Alli. We are actually working with that goal that in the year 2023 the entire corridor between the Basque Y, Pamplona, Castejon and Zaragoza can be complete, and as you pointed out, and it is public, it is not easy for us to set up the high speed train. You have said it very well, the parties that support Geroa Bai - among them Podemos - have made it very clear that they do not want high speed and that they will not allow a single euro to be placed in the budget of 2018, and of course, if not a euro, it is difficult to carry out the agreement that is signed, by which the state finances all the action and executes the superstructure and the government of Navarre it is the one that has to draft the projects and has to put in place the corresponding bids to execute the work of the platform. We, with the agreement that we had with the Government of Navarre, delivered an agreement in May, and we agreed to try to close it in a few weeks, in any case before the summer; successively we have been called for extensions of time, we have been in breach of the agreements that we had and we have reached the last, improbable, of September 10; the arrival of that date, and in a context in addition to very contradictory statements among the members of the Government, we have not had an answer and it is time that the Government has to make a decision that has to do with the general interest, with the defense of the high-speed train, with a competitive infrastructure that will of course benefit the shipowners, and that is to execute, from the Government of Spain, the high-speed network itself. At the last meeting on 18 September, the Government of Navarre took off with the link of this action with the Economic Convention, which had not been a part of the negotiations and agreements that we had at any time, and on the other hand, the impossibility of entering into a single euro was reiterated, which would cause us to fail to meet our bidding commitments of at least two of the first stages of the platform between Castejon and Pamplona in this first year. Therefore the steps that we are going to take have been made public: we are going to start the revocation of the agreement, we are going to assume the management of high speed, we are going to bid the projects waiting for them to comply with the commitment to send them to us on 15 October and 15 November, and we are going to undertake the works of course with the maximum collaboration and institutional loyalty, together with the Government of Navarre. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL Adriana LASTRA FERNANDEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO TAKE TO FIGHT AGAINST THE BEAUTY GENERAL? [[File number 180/00356]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u93	Question by Adriana Lastra Fernández, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, wage discrimination is both a main cause and a direct consequence of many other discriminations suffered by women. It is the basis of an unjust system of inequality. Unfortunately, it is so rooted in society that we will only be able to reduce that wage inequality if we are able to implement and value ambitious policies and move them forward. That is why I ask you what your Government intends to do in this regard. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u95	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Member, what the government wants to do - it is what it has been doing these years - is to add up, to add up so that women have more opportunities, better wages and also to reduce the gaps that still women suffer in Spain. We also invite the Socialist Party to work together. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u97	Mrs. Lastra.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. For you have added little, Minister, you have added little because you see that the wage structure survey from 2010 to 2014 has increased the wage gap between men and women. And it should be noted that over the past four years there have been more than 200,000 women who earn less than the inter-professional minimum wage than four years ago. There are 1.5 million women who charge less than 645 euros per month. In all occupations, in all, women receive lower wages than men, regardless of whether they are of lower qualifications or directives. If we talk about private companies, the wage gap is more than 28%. In all types of contracts, including indefinite ones, the wage gap exists and we can talk about up to 7000 euros difference. At all levels of education, the average wage differs by up to 20%. They have therefore gone wrong, but it is also that, in February of this year, all the groups in this House, including the People's Party, were urging the Government to introduce a law on equal pay in six months' time. Those six months have passed, Minister, that equal pay law has not arrived and not only has it not arrived, it is that we believe that they have no intention of bringing it to the House and that they are not even working on it. Look, Minister, correcting the pay gap is a matter of justice and equity. Equality between men and women must be ensured in several respects: one, in access to employment; two, in continuity; three, in training; of course, in wages. That has to be the equal pay law. It is a question of justice and equality. We do not know what the country's government is waiting for, because that is also how social cohesion is built and that is also how Spain is built and defended, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u99	Minister, your turn.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u100	Madam Member, believe me, I welcome you to this debate because we have been worrying about women in this government for many years. [[Rumors]] I recommend a little humility because you have said well, women need to get to full equality of opportunity to have more employment, for example. Firstly, it is true that today in Spain, thanks to the efforts of Spanish society, we have recovered all the female employment that was destroyed by the crisis and there are more women than ever working in Spain, but the unemployment rate for women is still 6% higher than for men. And we want to keep adding so that they find even more jobs in our country. Secondly, you talk to me about wages and, according to Eurostat, the wage gap in Spain has been reduced since 2012 by 4 points. We are at historical minimums and still have a lot to do in our country to achieve true equality of opportunity, but Spain is now at historical minimums, with a reduction in the wage gap of 4 points, and is, for example, 6 points below the United Kingdom or 7 points below Germany. I insist, we have to keep adding up. Thirdly, a large gap that is also narrowing at the moment in Spain is the pension gap, which historically condemned our women to have up to 30% less pension than men in our country. We have done two things in this legislature with the People's Party government. The first, a pact of all to improve the protection of part-time contracts, which are mostly signed by women. The second, a maternity supplement that has made it possible in two years to reduce the pension gap by 11%, because there are 275 000 women in Spain receiving up to 15% more pension thanks to an initiative of the People's Party supported by this House. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u101	We are now in question to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. Mrs Maria del Rocío de Frutos Madrazo, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, asks. - THE MARY OF THE ROCIO DE FRUTOS MADRAZO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT ACTIONS HAS THE GOVERNMENT BROUGHT TO ARRIVE A REAL WORK AND FAMILY CONCILIATION IN CORRESPONSIBILITY? [[File number 180/00357]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u102	Good morning. What action does the Government intend to take to achieve real work and family reconciliation by advancing co-responsibility?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u103	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, honourable Member. Look, we've made some progress over the years to promote the reconciliation between work and personal and family life and you know what? That we have made as a society a great effort and a collective commitment to recover 2 million jobs from which the crisis destroyed. Those people, at least, can choose to reconcile today in our country. And then, we have given society new tools, new tools for reconciliation to be an easier reality every day for men and women in Spain. For example, we have set up telework for the first time in our country; for example, we have extended the reduction in childcare hours from eight to twelve years, something that did not exist until the last parliamentary term. As your partner was told earlier, we have also extended the social protection of the part-time contract so that it can be better protected and reconciled. And fourthly, we have doubled in 2017, in the current year, the paternity leave from two to four weeks. We therefore continue to add and continue to make new efforts and to make available to society new tools for reconciliation to be a reality every day in our country. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u105	Mrs. De Frutos.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u106	Minister, we already knew you were going to talk to us about laws, about data, but we came here to talk about realities. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u107	I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u108	We will now show you that there is a real impossibility to reconcile, that co-responsibility is a utopia and that this affects women in their wages, in their professional advancement, in their access to employment, in their health and in their private lives. First of all, I do not know if you know that there are long days, there are departure days, flexibility at the request of the company, etc. The company has the idea that permanence is equal to productivity and that harms women. I don't know if you know - I'm sure you do - that the source of the wage gap in many cases is caused by shortcomings in conciliation. 28% of women say they work part-time to care for their families. Furthermore, I do not know if you know that there are women who cannot access certain pay increases, such as those linked to availability or special dedication. Why? Because they have that burden of family care that their peers don't have. This wage gap you know has an impact on wages and future pensions. What about women? That we do unremunerated invisible work; three out of four hours of unpaid work are done by women, and this conditions them in their paid employment. What happens in access to employment? That the interviews are opaque; we are always asked about our family life, about whether we want to have no children, and that, which is linked to the difficulty of conciliation, also affects women. What's wrong with women? That we can't promote ourselves. Why? Because training takes place outside working hours. What about all these measures that you tell us about maternity and paternity leave? There is still pressure within the company to ensure that these permits are not enjoyed in the manner legally established. What's wrong with women? That those family burdens we have affect us in our safety and health, psychosocial risks, ergonomics, etc. What's wrong with women? That we can't develop ourselves on a job or on a personal basis. Why? Because there is no such conciliation. In February, a proposal for conciliation was adopted here in plenary, which you considered to be a refrain and which we believe you should take seriously. Thank you very much for all your explanations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u109	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Member, I shall keep to the positive tone of your speech. We must continue to add initiatives that are also published in the State Official Gazette, such as the tools that previously told it, so that women have every day more opportunity to reconcile, just like men. We are now working on two major initiatives, one national and one European. The national one is something that I presented at the beginning of the legislature, which is a more rational conciliation and timetable agreement in Spain that includes, by the way, the right to digital disconnection so that people who work can reconcile their working lives. Also with the social partners and within the framework of the constructive dialogue we are coming to a common position of Spain, to which I invite the Socialist Party, so that in the new European initiative for the implementation of the European pillar of social rights we can continue to talk about conciliation and the major issues that concern men and women so that work is every day in Spain as in Europe, more compatible with life. Thank you very much, honourable Member. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON TXEMA GUIJARRO GARCIA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED KINGDOM WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT IS IT THAT YOU ARE BASED TO SAY THAT 'THE EMPLOYMENT THAT COMES FROM THE MOST QUALITY OF WHAT WAS IT'? [[File number 180/00334]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u111	Question by Mr Txema Guijarro García, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u112	Thank you, President. Minister, what is your basis for saying that the job that comes is of better quality than the one that went away?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u113	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor, very easy: in official statistics. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u115	Mr. Guijarro.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u116	All right, in those official statistics that you're sure to work with your team sanely. It seems to me that, in the meantime, the ministry office and the official car, perhaps you will forget to look out the window of reality and contemplate the panorama of the country you govern. I'm going to give you some information from the State Employment Public Service, Minister. The average duration of days per contract has increased from 65.9 in 2008 before the crisis to 43.3, which is the last recorded data this year. There's been a 34% drop, Minister. She passed that data on to him. There goes another one. The temporality of employment in Spain, according to the most up-to-date data, puts us once again at the head of Europe with a 26.9 number of posts ahead of Portugal and Poland, which are the following on the list. Please, Minister, I beg you to pull that data into the cork of your lordship's office. More data on employment. This is final, Minister. According to the INE, between 2008 and 2016, the rate of wage participation in relation to GDP has fallen steadily by 6 points, while in the same period business profits have increased by 2 points. In the meantime, you seem to be handling that data, and yet it's demolishing. It explains for itself why this crisis is happening. Yours believe it, ours pay it, they keep paying it. Since we are talking about quality in employment, Minister, let us also talk about pensions and deferred wages. In 2008, a retired person in Spain had sufficient annual revaluation of his pension, so he could be sure that he would not lose purchasing power. Currently, thanks to the 2013 pension reform, yours, these are almost frozen sine die. Thanks to its revaluation index, some academic studies estimate that public pensions will not be able to begin to regain purchasing power until the year - hold on, minister - 2048. Happy prospects for so many future retirees of my generation. For data to be read and interpreted correctly, science recommends first and directly observing the phenomenon of study. I would recommend, as Minister of Employment, that you go out and see what is really happening in Spain and, thus, perhaps you would not be so insulting when you say what you say to so many people. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u117	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President. For more than five years now, I have been dealing with the problems of the Spanish and, in particular, the main problem, which is employment, and quality, every day in Spain. You tell me what I'm basing myself on to make my claims. Read a little more about the computer or tablet you've been provided in this House. Look, official statistics: I will start with Eurostat, which says that Spain today leads full-time job creation across the European Union. Second. EPA data showing that 82% of all indefinite employment destroyed by the crisis has been recovered and only 44% of temporary employment has been recovered. Third, membership in Social Security. We have been chained and consecutive forty-three months of indefinite job creation, when during the best previous period, between 2005 and 2007, we were only able to chain twenty-eight consecutive months. Therefore, uninterrupted growth of indefinite recruitment in Spain. Fourth given. National accounting, which certifies that since the recovery, Your Honor, wage incomes have risen more than business profits. And fifth fact, also of affiliation, Your Honor. Today Spain is experiencing an inclusive recovery because we have been able to abandon a very harsh crisis that we all Spanish suffer. We pay more pensions to more pensioners and higher than ever, because for the first time the average retirement pension in Spain exceeds 1065 euros. We have much to do, Your Honor, but the efforts of Spanish society and the policies of the Government are leading us in the right direction. If you are so concerned about workers, I invite you to do something important today, which is to defend legality and the rule of law, which is what really guarantees workers' rights, the legal security of businesses, equality between Spaniards and to continue creating jobs, which is what Spanish society needs more than ever, and with stability. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA JUANA AMALIA RODRIGUEZ HERNANDEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: DOES YOU intend to fulfil the recently adopted motion at the conference on measures to imbue a wage-recovery that bears a more just distribution of income? [[File number 180/00354]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u119	Question by Juana Amalia Rodríguez Hernández, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u120	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, over the past five years we have been witnessing an unfair distribution of national income and productivity. The gap in inequality that has been generated in Spanish society is intractable politically and socially, and is also of dubious constitutionality. Do you intend to comply with the recently passed motion in Congress on measures to promote a wage recovery that involves a fairer income distribution? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u121	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Member, the government will continue to work to ensure that Spain continues to have an inclusive recovery, which favours employees to gain purchasing power through their work. Secondly, that it promotes the competitiveness of businesses and that there is an increase in productivity every year, as has been happening since the recovery. Most importantly, that is compatible with the creation of 500 000 jobs each year because, although we have recovered 65% of the jobs that destroyed the crisis, we still have a way to go. We must give opportunities to the more than 3 million compatriots who are waiting for an employment opportunity, who deserve it and have not yet found it. So, we have to add everything. And this recovery is possible, Your Honor, thanks to the efforts of families, workers, businesses and the social partners as well. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u123	Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u124	Madam Minister, I imagined that your answer would be more or less as it has been, as you have been repeating the same sophisms over and over again in this House as if it were a mantra. But my question is very specific because the debate on this issue has already been sufficiently developed in the handling of the question and the motion that causes my question. This House adopted a motion last week containing twelve points, which were voted on separately and all adopted without amendment. These particular points concerned such important issues as the repeal of labour reform, a new status of workers, wage increases in agreements between employers and trade unions, an increase in the interprofessional minimum wage, collective bargaining, new policies that promote productivity... Thus, up to twelve major political measures, all aimed at reversing today's 3.6 million unemployed, 8 million poor workers, young people with precarious jobs, unemployed or abroad, long-term unemployed between 45 and 55 years of age. All these measures are aimed at achieving a fairer distribution of national income, and I ask you whether you intend to implement all or any of these measures. Which ones? On what priority? When? Madam Minister, we know that motions do not have the same strength to force laws, but an unjustified breach of a motion implies ignoring... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u125	Your shift is over, Mrs. Rodriguez. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Member, what this government is going to do is to persevere in those initiatives and reforms that have allowed Spain today to live a social recovery with employment, because thanks to the labour reform, for example, which has been a labour reform for employment, we have been able to change the tendency of the socialist governments to destroy 1500 jobs every day to what is happening today in Spain, which creates 2600 jobs every day. Therefore, instruments that economic agents today take as reforms we make available to society and are turning them into new opportunities for the Spaniards. Yes, I agree with you on some things that we need to continue to push through social dialogue. For example, a youth employment shock plan, which is at the table of social dialogue and I would like it to become a great deal of agreement for everyone in a few days' time. Meanwhile, as long as employment continues to arrive, we do not want to leave anyone behind in recovery and there we have been able to join in social dialogue as well as in the autonomous communities. This Friday the renewal of the Plan will go to the Council of Ministers Prepare until April next year for those who remain unemployed to have additional economic aid and for the transition from unemployment to employment to have greater social protection for all. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, adding up for the job and leaving no one behind. And I want the Socialist Party to join these initiatives of all. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON RAFAEL MAYORAL PERALS, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNISH IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES, FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT: CAN YOU EXPLAIN IF THE GOVERNMENT IS TO RECOGNIZE THE CATEGORY OF FORESTAL BOMBERS TO WORKERS PROVIDING THE PUBLIC SERVICE OF BRIGADES OF REFERENCE AGAINST FORESTAL FIELDS? [[File number 180/00340]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u127	Question to the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment. Question by Mr Rafael Mayoral Perales, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, could you explain to us whether your Government intends to recognize the category of forest firefighter to the workers who provide the service of brigades for reinforcement against forest fires?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u129	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u130	Thank you, President. The recognition of this category is a matter to be negotiated between the representatives of the workers and the company that hires them. It is not for the Government to recognize this category of work. Having said that, I can confirm to you that the public company Tragsa and the representatives of the BRIF workers have reached a pre-agreement this Monday, in which they accept the definition proposed for forest firefighter; a pre-agreement signed by the majority of the unions, representatives of the workers and which has the approval of the ministry. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u131	Mr. Mayoral.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u132	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, first of all, I think it is important to highlight what the Forestry Fire Brigades are, and they are people who are today on ten bases in the whole state, who do a self-sacrificing job in the fight against the big fires in this country and who do not fail in the calls of the autonomous communities. They are a collective of 560 workers who live in a precarious situation, fixed discontinuous, eventual, interim, mainly because the commission of their ministry does not last all year. That is why you, those who give the best of themselves and their professional activity, are subjected to intolerable precariousness. It is surprising how you try to escape the responsibility of the ministry, because these brigades were created in 1992 by the Ministry of Agriculture. However, in their outsourcing policy they fell into the hands of Tragsa; and these workers are subjected to intolerable working conditions, which cause people who enter the fire from the helicopters to have to suffer payrolls of 900 euros in periods of extinction. This is absolutely incredible. Those persons, in that company which is public and which is also sitting on its board of directors, are discriminated against and excluded by means of an annex of forty articles of the collective agreement. This affects pay, rest and more dangerous issues. The non-acceptance of the category of professional firefighter also affects issues of toxicity and penosity. But not only on that, but also on the issues of reducing coefficients. Honestly, I want to say something to him: they do not fail when they are claimed, and we have to take care of those who take care of us; we have to take care of those who take care of everyone. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u133	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u134	It is imperative to recognize the work of the BRIF by ending precariousness, recognizing its professional status and ending discrimination. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u135	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u136	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, you don't seem to have heard my answer. This name is accepted. And no one like this government has given importance to the BRIF. Your Honor, the conditions of the BRIF, today, have nothing to do with what they had in 2011; and that has been possible because of the efforts made by this government in the constant improvement of their working conditions; an effort demonstrated from the very beginning. I will give you a fact: the first signature of Minister Miguel Arias as soon as he arrived at the ministry was to give continuity to the recruitment of BRIF, something that had been forgotten by the previous government. Today, BRIF workers have a job for almost all of the year, 11 and a half months, because we have been extending the duration of prevention work. Today they have a stability horizon because of the multi-annual nature of the tasks entrusted to their company Tragsa, something that was not done previously. Today they have the best personal equipment, the best work material; we give them permanent training and have physical preparers at each base. Since we arrived at the Government, improvements have been made to the BRIF and we continue to work on that. For example, this year will begin the reform and construction of new foundations over a five-year plan. I will tell you, Your Honor, where the precariousness of the BRIF really lies. We will start this plan in the Iglesuela, in Castile-La Mancha, because maintaining the base in an adequate state is the responsibility of the autonomous government, but we start there because the bipartite PSOE-Podemos has the base in a state of abandonment and deterioration that we do not consider acceptable. [[Applauds]] For our part, we will maintain our commitment to the 545 workers, among technicians, foremans, specialists and physical trainers, who form the BRIF device, whose situation - I insist - has nothing to do with that of 2011. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANGELES ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: IS THE WOMEN'S HEALTH OBSERVATORY FOUND? [[File number 180/00358]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u137	Questions to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. Question by Mrs Ángeles Álvarez Álvarez, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Minister, I suppose you were surprised to be asked by a body you have already ruled out, but I would like to say that it is not a mistake, but a declaration of intent, because the general direction that assumed the competences of that body simply has been to eliminate them. They arrived at the Government and closed the tap at the National School of Health, and within the framework of research and statistics they are now only collecting the information sent to them by the Autonomous Communities on training in violence. Programmes to early detect the effects of gender-based violence and its impact on health have liquidated them. The diploma of specialization in public health and gender had its last edition in 2012. The sexual health survey is annihilated. The meetings of health professionals and researchers related to women are abandoned. While this is happening, thousands of young women are being exposed to the ingestion of hormonal bombs with few controls of their ministry; to Caesarean deliveries that grow alarmingly without any justification; to uninformed or consented episiotomy in hospitals where there are already complaints from patients; to induced deliveries and use of oxytocin stimulation far above the standard recommended by the World Health Organization; and the economic crisis has triggered the number of women who are selling their eggs and who do so repeatedly. Yesterday I was talking to a young donor who has not been properly informed about the hormone bomb she received for 800 euros, between 8 and 12 eggs. All these issues, which have harmful consequences for women's health, their ministry does not study them, investigate them, quantify them and, of course, does not correct them. So, before you leave your post, you try to leave some legacy to be proud of. Rebuild the Women's Health Observatory, which will serve you, among other things, to learn about what is happening to us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u138	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u139	Thank you, President. Two days ago, unfortunately, we knew the murder of the 22-year-old girl in Canteras, Murcia, at the hands of her ex-partner and from here I want to express all my condemnation and support to her relatives and loved ones. Mrs Álvarez Álvarez, the Women's Health Observatory, asking me, was precisely promoted in 2003 by Minister Ana Pastor, by a government of the People's Party, and in 2014 was integrated into the Health Observatory, within the framework of Law 15/2014, of rationalization of the public sector and other administrative reform measures. This decision has consolidated the work carried out by the observatory, which is complemented by the numerous measures implemented by the Government in favour of effective gender equality, as well as to strengthen and promote the role of women in Spanish society in areas such as culture, politics, employment and the economy. But women already play - and we will do more and more - a leading role in our society. From the Health Observatory it is proposed a specific approach, adapted to the particular needs of women through national strategies, such as those relating to the approach of chronicity, ischemic heart disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, rheumatic diseases, diabetes, cancer - whose update we will present before the end of the year - to mental health. Therefore, the Inter-Territorial Council has a specific commission to promote the prevention and early detection of gender-based violence with common protocols from the health point of view that the Observatory itself promotes. One of the evaluation criteria used in the inter-territorial council to recognize good practices in the autonomous communities is the gender approach coordinated by the observatory. The Institute for Women and Equal Opportunities also has a specific area of work in the field of health that implements training and information awareness programmes, both for professionals and for society as a whole. There are numerous campaigns and actions undertaken to preserve the improvement of women's health at all stages of life: childhood, adolescence, menopause and also during pregnancy. It is no coincidence, Mrs Álvarez, that we are among the first countries in the world for indicators such as the life expectancy at birth of Spanish women, which currently exceeds eighty-five years, which will be eighty-eight years in 2030 and will reach ninety in 2050. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u140	You've finished your shift, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u141	We then proceed to address the appeals addressed to the Government. Firstly, urgent appeal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the implementation of the commitments to resettlement and resettlement of refugees in accordance with the decisions taken by the European Union in 2015. For your defence, Mrs Merchán Mesón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u142	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, minister. I would also like to thank and greet the non-governmental organizations that are with us today and take this opportunity to thank and acknowledge their commendable work. Mr Zoido, 15,354; those are the people who should be in our country today and I hope to explain why they are not. Never in history were so many people forcibly displaced from their homes. According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, in 2016 there were almost 66 million, the largest figure in history, the majority coming from three countries: Afghanistan, Syria and South Sudan. The Syrian war, over the past six years, has caused more than five million refugees, most of whom have been received in their neighbouring countries: Turkey, Lebanon or Jordan. In 2015, the refugee crisis shocked Europe with images we thought we were not going to see again on our continent. Tens of thousands of people came through the so-called Balkan route entering Greece and crossing countries in central Europe, and all in the face of the gaze and awareness of European citizenship, which saw whole families reaching the beaches in a pitiful state. They walked through the European camps in silent and endless rows, drawing fences and other obstacles, including rejection. Thousands of people malusing in improvised camps in Greece, Italy or Hungary, and living with absolute disconcerting the closure of the European Union's borders of the Nobel Peace Prize. The image of the body of the child Aylan Kurdi on a Turkish beach was the drop that caused the outrage of the citizens and the States were forced to organize a collective response to an unprecedented humanitarian crisis. In September 2015, the Council decisions on the establishment of provisional measures in the field of international protection for Italy and Greece were adopted, with a system of relocation quotas for the Member States being put in place. Several States, including Spain, showed their disagreement with both the system and the quota allocated, which was neither higher nor lower than the rest, because it was based on an equitable system of population criteria, GDP, unemployment rate and average asylum applications. Spain was allocated 17,337 persons to receive within two years, a period which expired yesterday. The result cannot be described as failure or fraud. Weak because only two States have complied, Malta and Latvia, and in the case of Spain the figures can only lead us to blush. And fraud, because we are witnesses to the courage of this government and of the rest of Europe as well; we have proof of the value this government gives to commitments to Europe when they concern people's rights. [[Applauds]] In two years Spain has welcomed 1983 people out of the 17,337 committed. I insist, 15,354 people are missing. Right here, in this House, on questions from my group, they have always used excuses, it has always been the fault of others. The government is doing everything in its hand, said Minister Dastis in May; and what has been in its hand has been 11% compliance. Can you imagine - as many NGOs have reminded you these days - that this was the result account, the fulfilment of the objectives of any company, of any worker, of any public service? What would happen to 11% compliance? Where would those responsible be? Indeed, there are countries that have received less, but I also ask you to clarify one thing: what are our reference countries? Is it Hungary and Poland that are not going to host? Is it Portugal and Ireland that, having been rescued by the European Union, have received a higher percentage than we have? Germany and its almost million-in-the-box? Who are our countries of reference? Or for some things they're one and for others they're another? Minister, these figures of shame are only explained in one way: they have not had the real will to fulfil, they have never had it. From the very beginning, you said that all the mechanisms for fulfilling the account had been put in place. Look, the arrival schedule certainly doesn't say that. [[Show a chart]] In 2015, eighteen people; between December 2015 and May 2016, zero; from May to December 2016, 589; in 2017, 672. These are the numbers that are on your website; if there are others, correct me. They were excused that Greece and Italy had not made the records of the eligible persons; the Commission's bimonthly reports left that behind. Why have other Member States welcomed more than us? What have they done that we haven't done? Because look, the graph is demolishing: Finland, Ireland, Portugal and here we are. [[Applauds]] Here too, here is the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary, are those our references? Aren't we in the top five of the European Union? The last excuse, the email that you carry in your pocket - today you have not shown it to my colleague Odón Elorza, but it is that sometimes gives the feeling that it even shows it with relief -: communication from the Relocation Unit of Greece, that in which you thank us for the effort and say that there are no eligible profiles. Well, I'd like you to explain that to me in more detail - now you're going to have more time - because, as you know better than I do, you've made some kind of trap with the arrival dates. Just as Greece has to give some explanation, I do not tell you that it is you, and I assume that you too have shown the Greek Government as well as us that mail, the resolution of the European Parliament in which it says that for compliance the deadline is not over on 26 September and that people who have arrived in Greece since the European Union-Greece Declaration can and should be welcomed. I would also like to know what you are doing to contribute to the new European reception strategy which, I believe, is being presented today - you also have more information -. Because if you are committed to welcoming, if you really want to fulfill those commitments, prove that you are, make contributions. What has been your contribution to that strategy? Have you made contributions to change those criteria and that the tens of thousands of people who are in Greece and Italy may come? What do we do with them? Do we leave them there? Shall we return them to Somalia, Yemen? What do we do with them? I would also like to raise two issues which we believe are fundamental and which I would like you to discuss, one of which is your competence and the other of your colleague Báñez's competence. People sit in municipalities, in cities, in autonomous communities and, of course, the contempt with which they have treated the autonomous communities and the municipalities is not admissible. It will correct me if it has been more, but I think there have been three meetings that have held with the Autonomous Communities, briefings. The municipalities, the autonomous communities did not know which people were going to reach their territories, under what conditions, with what needs, what response they had to give. It's not a receipt, I'm sure that's an improvement. Starting today, we're gonna get better, sure. As for the organisations and the reception programme, you not only do little or no, but you also force others to pay. The change made in 2012 in the Ministry of Employment and Social Security's base of grants for refugee care programmes includes the mandatory co-financing for NGOs, which is leaving the organizations in a really complicated situation and in which they should never be, because the obligation to integrate and host refugees is a State responsibility. There is an urgent need for them to resolve this issue. In these two years only measures have been taken to control borders. Not a step forward in the definition of legal and safe routes, in the authorisation of humanitarian visas at source or in the authorisation of humanitarian corridors, and we are waiting for the reform of the Common European Asylum System. What position will Spain take to these debates? We are the southern border, the most unequal border on the planet, and we are forced to play a leading role in such a crucial and first-person issue. The absence of legal and secure channels causes people to be pushed to resort to mafia organizations that only see in them a more profitable business every day, a business that costs thousands of lives in the Mediterranean, although thanks to NGOs every day you can save lives, those NGOs that you had to rectify some statements about. Minister, you also acknowledged that the obligation to receive did not end yesterday, so what are we going to do? I will confess that it would have been naive on our part to think that the Government of Mariano Rajoy was going to act differently because, of course, they were not characterized by having as a priority the attention to the most vulnerable people, and the refugees were not going to be an exception. For the Socialist Group it is a matter of top political priority, we have regularly brought questions to the plenary and today we are bringing this question to which we will put a motion with points to unblock this situation in an urgent and agile manner. We cannot be listening as you say that this country is living a spring of employment and growth and seeing another winter more than thousands of people in mud, in tents, when they should be in our country. Reception is not a matter of solidarity or charity, it is not a matter of being sensitive, Minister, it is a legal obligation, but it is true that it puts the values and sensibilities of citizens and their rulers to the test and you, of course, have not lived up to the standards of citizenship. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u143	Thank you very much, Mrs Merchán. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u144	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mrs Merchán for the tone she has used and I assure all of you that I, more than anyone, would like to say that we have achieved one hundred percent of our objectives. Honestly, I'm really sorry this wasn't possible. Your Honor, I agree with you in your assertions that in 2015 the international situation forced the European Union to act decisively to help reduce the refugee crisis faced by the Member States and neighbouring countries of the European Union. For the first time, in the European migration policy, the European Commission proposed to relocate 160 000 people clearly in need of international protection. The aim was nothing more than to transfer them from Member States under extreme pressure - such as Greece and Italy - to other Member States of the European Union, thus showing Europe's solidarity and bringing a global solution to the global migration crisis. The Commission also recommended a resettlement programme for 20,000 persons in need of international protection. We are therefore talking about temporary emergency relocation programmes and the European resettlement programme, which have been approved not without difficulty, as you are well aware. But on 16 March 2015, Dimitris Avramópulos, European Commissioner for Immigration, Home Affairs and Citizenship, said - and I quote in text -: 'Member States have committed themselves to relocate 160 000 people clearly in need of international protection, a commitment they have reaffirmed on several occasions'. And he goes on to say: 'With a humanitarian situation in Greece worsening day by day, Member States must urgently move forward in fulfilling their commitments and avoid further deterioration of refugees in this country. We must achieve a substantial increase in the number of relocations in the coming days and weeks. Member States must also offer alternatives to legal routes so that people in need of international protection can arrive in Europe safely, and show solidarity with third countries affected by the refugee crisis by a significant increase in resettlement efforts by the European Union.' It was therefore clear from the outset that the commitment of countries, the political will of Governments, was absolutely necessary to move forward. On the other hand, the European Commission has made a number of specific recommendations to Member States of relocation, urging them to increase their commitments and to shorten the time needed to process applications. At the same time, Greece and Italy are also called upon to redouble their efforts to ensure the rapid and efficient operation of the programme, in particular with regard to systematic security controls and the quality of information sent to Member States of relocation. Both countries should also improve their coordination capacity, build their reception capacity, avoid the flight risks of applicants and properly design and improve procedures for the relocation of unaccompanied minors. As you are well aware, ladies and gentlemen, the emergency relocation programme was established in two Council decisions: in September 2015, when they committed to relocate 160 000 people from Italy and Greece to September 2017, specifically until yesterday, and on 8 June 2015, when the Commission adopted a proposal for a resettlement programme, subsequently ratified by the Member States on 20 July, to resettle specifically 22,504 people, according to figures submitted by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. [[The lady]] As a result of this agreement, Spain undertook to relocate 9323 refugees, up to a maximum of 15,888 persons, and to resettle 1449 by 26 September of this year. From the outset, I can assure you that this Government has been working to ensure that these commitments can be met in the time and in the form set. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't say this louder and clearer anymore: our intention has always been to comply in time and form with the commitments we have made, and we are still in the same line. The commitment to relocate up to 15,888 people we acquired at two different times: at the June 2015 European Council, in accordance with Decision 2015/1523 of 14 September, in which we committed ourselves to relocate 1,300 refugees. In addition, in Council Decision 1601 of 22 September that year, in which we undertook to relocate up to 14,588 refugees, 1896 from Italy, 6127 from Greece and 6565 from the Hungarian reserve. The relocation process, Your Honor, requires a number of deadlines and steps to be completed. Firstly, political communication of the Member State's willingness to relocate, usually during JHA; secondly, administrative communication. The Asylum and Refugee Office, the OAR, as a national point of contact, informs both Greece and Italy of its intention to carry out the relocation, which has previously been announced in the JHA. Greece and Italy, as a third step, forward the dossiers as requested. The files pass security control through the Organized Crime Intelligence Centre and the National Intelligence Centre to subsequently communicate the Refugee Asylum Office to Greece and Italy that the security controls have already been exceeded and the files are accepted. That's how the processing ends. In coordination with the International Organization for Migration, travel is organized so that they can come to Spain. From Spain we have made the following requests for relocation. To date Spain has communicated its willingness to relocate a total of 2500 applicants for international protection: 1875 from Greece, 625 from Italy; of which, first, a pilot relocation was made from Italy and a willingness to relocate 50 people was communicated on 8 October 2015. Communication to Greece of Spain's willingness to relocate 150 people in March 2016. Communication to Greece of Spain's willingness to relocate 200 more people in June 2016. Communication again to Greece of Spain's willingness to relocate 500: 100 from Italy and 400 from Greece, which was officially published on 13 October 2016. The last communication was made during the JHA held in Brussels in March, when Spain announced its willingness to relocate 600 more people in three successive months: 525 from Greece and 75 from Italy. Finally, a communication to the Greek and Italian authorities to relocate 500 more people in July, August and September. What transfers have been made effective? To date, 1279 people have been transferred to Spain: 1089 from Greece and 190 from Italy, that is, all the relocations that we have been communicating have been completed, less those of 27 March and the last, which are still being done on a monthly basis. Therefore, our commitment is firm and not in vain Spain, as we have previously had the opportunity to maintain also in the question I have answered, was one of the first countries to initiate relocations. With regard to resettlement, the National Resettlement Programme approved for 2015 and 2016 contained a resettlement forecast of 1449 refugees. Spain communicated its willingness to resettle all those originally planned, and we did so at the extraordinary European Council of 20 July, dividing the figure by 854 of the 2015 national plan and 725 for the 2016 national plan. The implementation of this National Resettlement Plan can take up to six months, and we must always take into account the availability and capacity of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Acnur Spain. The beginning and the various steps are as follows: sending the letter to Acnur requesting it to forward a list of resettled potentials; pre-selection of resettled potentials by studying the documentation sent by Acnur Spain and taking into account the criteria that could have been included in the PNR. Another step is to carry out the selection and identification mission on the ground to subsequently process the relevant international protection files before they can be transferred to Spain, and this implies their elevation to the Inter-Ministerial Commission of Asylum and Refugee to subsequently transfer them to Spain. The consular office, with the authorization of the Directorate General of Spanish Foreign Affairs and Consular and Migration Affairs, issues the corresponding residence visas and, where appropriate, the safe conduct. Therefore, I would like to point out that with the adoption of the European Union-Turkey agreement in March 2016, a new way of implementing resettlements from there appears with the known 1x1 mechanism. In this case, relocation does not follow the previous steps and is not done with Acnur Spain but with Acnur Turkey, but the transfers have to be accounted for within the 2016 PNR. Finally, with regard to the requests for resettlement made by Spain, to date we have communicated the will to resettle all the applicants for international protection provided for in the National Resettlement Plan report, but the actual transfers have not been the total of those we have offered. To date, 704 refugees, 506 from Lebanon, from the first quota of 285, and 198 from Turkey have been transferred to Spain. We currently have pending resettlements from Turkey, unquestionably delayed by political instability, and that is why we have already carried out the entire resettlement mission in Turkey from 23 January to 27 January and from 24 to 28 July, in charge of conducting interviews with the applicants on their own ground. There is also resettlement from Lebanon. Since the beginning, two resettlement missions have been carried out and the last transfers are being carried out these days. So, Your Honor, we are only waiting for the last people to arrive from Turkey and Lebanon, which will enable us to meet one hundred percent of the commitment made to resettlement. I'm done, Madam President. Your Honor, I believe Spain has complied. We are not satisfied, but what we want is to continue to fulfil our commitments. This is what we have communicated to both Italy and Greece and, despite the difficulties we have encountered, we do not want to abandon our responsibilities and, although yesterday ended the official deadline we have given ourselves, this does not put an end to our responsibility and we will continue to work so that that commitment to relocate and reallocate all the people to whom we committed can be fulfilled even if the official deadline has expired, I insist. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u145	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, please, silence. There is a very important background murmur; I don't know whether you perceive it or just perceive it from here. I say this in the face that the person who is in the gallery - in a few seconds will be Mrs Merchán - can concentrate on what she is telling us. I'm not saying interrupt your conversations, just keep your tone down a little bit. Thank you very much. Mrs Merchán Mesón, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u146	Thank you, Minister, for the prolific explanation you have given; I thank you sincerely, and I also thank you for your willingness to continue to accept this, because, as I said before, this is a matter of the highest priority for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We are not going to fall into demagogies, social media campaigns looking for the moment of opportunity, because the lives of thousands of people are at stake. I suppose that you, in the development of your powers as Minister of the Interior, have had the opportunity to talk with refugees and, of course, it is something that you do not forget in life: the look of that father or mother who one day decides to abandon everything to save her children and you play life at sea, in front of fences or in front of walls, that of course you do not forget and that is what has to prevail when it comes to putting the protection system in place. We're talking about people who run away from hell - allow me that qualification - to save life, which is the only thing they can save at that time. You have a great opportunity because I think it is the only issue on which you have the majority support of the citizenry. Yesterday thousands of people went to the streets all over the state to ask people to be welcomed. Surely - I doubt that I am mistaken - he is the only minister who can go out on the street today and have the whole country behind to fulfil the commitment to receive refugees. Enjoy it. Go to Europe and explain where the bottlenecks are, because the administrative procedures that you have explained to us I suppose they are for all the States. Why do some people get to 94% and we get to 11%? Advance that our group is going to ask for appearances at the Congress of the Immigration Commissioner, the Director General of Immigration, the Director of the Asylum and Refugee Office in Acnur to see what can be done. Because, truly, Minister, history will not absolve us if another winter we see thousands of people and thousands of children in the mud of Greece and Italy. That's not going to forgive us for the future. You have the opportunity to go into history because you have fulfilled a commitment or because you have allowed these people to leave. People who come to Europe thinking - as many of us believe - that it is the largest area of freedoms and rights in the world today. More and more people are questioning the principles on which the European Union was built. Let us not give them reason, let us not give them arguments because these issues give arguments to those who believe that this is no longer the space for freedoms and rights to be a VIP club for some. He's going to have the Socialist Group next door to deliver on commitments, criticizing and proposing it, and I'm sure he's got the citizen behind him. Enjoy it, live up to the values of the citizenry. Spain, in the 1990s - when the organizations had little experience, when the Government had little experience and we were in a worse situation than we are today as a country - welcomed thousands of refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina; the difference was that there was then a sensitive Government, a committed Government that knew that its obligation was to make everything available to those in need of protection. Other countries have done so. If you want, you can. It's in your hands. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs Merchán. Minister for the Interior, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u148	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Mrs Merchán. I would like to thank you in advance for the commitment and critical voice that encourages us and at the same time complements the measures that have been taken by the Spanish Government and in which we want to continue to inciting so that we can solve once and for all this problem of migratory pressure, but above all the situation that many people have right now of abandonment, war and conflicts in their countries of origin. I began my previous speech by saying that more than anyone else, both I and the Government, we would have liked to have been able to achieve that goal, but it has not been possible. However, I would like to reiterate the same; Spain's commitment is to continue to care for all those who may be relocated and resettled. Resettlements are all offered and we will continue to offer them in terms of relocation, although many still remain to be complemented. He told them that in the area of resettlement the normal thing is that we can fulfil the commitment when the files and the people who have been selected are sent to us. But I believe that one fundamental thing we have to take into account is that many refugees cannot return to their country and home because the conflict that forced them to leave continues. We are aware of this, and if the country in which they initially applied for asylum does not respond to the needs of the people themselves, see the coincidence with those countries that can then host them. We believe that resettlement is the stable solution, and consists of the transfer of one country of asylum to another that has agreed to admit and grant it permanent residence, where it is provided with legal protection, which it needs, but also physical protection, as well as access to all the rights that nationals have because it is recognized to them; therefore, it is given a great opportunity for them to be able, even with their families, to develop their lives. In the case of relocations, as I have previously had the opportunity to explain, it is totally different. It is true that the procedure is long and far-fetched, so each country cannot speed it up at the pace it deems appropriate. It's the procedure that exists. What needs to be changed within the European Union and in the established procedures will have to be changed, because there is no doubt that they have not given the result they were expected to offer. Then I will quote you a little about the levels of compliance, because of the large countries that we had agreed on a series of relocations and resettlements, none of them have been able to reach the figure that you speak of one hundred percent. We must therefore be aware that it was not the right solution that had been provided. I would like to conclude by making it clear that we are going to comply this year with the agreed resettlement commitments that have been offered and that we have certainly made an important effort to comply also with the relocations, but it is not entirely up to us. I would also like to make it clear that the first figure of 160 000 was subsequently reduced to just over 90 000 as a result of the agreement with Turkey, but two years later the reality is quite different. This has been discussed in the Commission and has been discussed at various meetings of the JHA for Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior. In spite of this - then I will send you the e-mail that sent us from the Office of the Refugee of Greece - I have had meetings with the Greek minister, to whom we have informed that regardless of whether they now have no dossiers to send us, we continue with the open offer and that as they are having the dossiers or they may have sent them to the people we have offered can come to Spain. All this from the point of view of resettlements, and from the point of view of relocations, Commissioner Avramopoulos had to acknowledge the effort that Spain was making, although it is true that so far it has not been possible to resolve because of the procedures so far so far established. As for the degree of compliance in absolute terms, Spain ranks seventh. It is true - I insist - that we are not satisfied with the result, but I must tell you that we have done and are ready to do everything possible to ensure that the compromise can be fulfilled in the literal tenor to which the Spanish Government committed itself in its day. We are willing to make all the additional efforts that are necessary, and yesterday I had the opportunity to say that although we are not satisfied, we have a calm conscience, although we would like to be able to change some things so that we can achieve the objective we have set ourselves. We share with you - the Government shares this - the situation of tragedy not only of minors, but also of their parents, of the rest of the families. These are tragic situations to which Spain and Europe must give a fair, but above all very supportive, way out. To this end, the Government will no doubt accept any proposal for improvement that we can lay down in our legislation and even that we can demand the necessary changes in Europe. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u149	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the abuse by the Government of the remedies of unconstitutionality to autonomous laws and the automatic suspension of autonomous provisions and rules provided for in Article 161.2 of the Constitution. [[LORDS BALDOVI, CANDELA AND BATALLER, AND LORD SORLI]] [[File number 172/000063]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u150	We turn to the urgent interpellation of the Joint Parliamentary Group on the abuse by the Government of unconstitutionality remedies to autonomous laws and the automatic suspension of autonomous provisions and rules provided for in article 161.2 of the Constitution. [[Mr. Baldoví, Mr. Candela and Mr. Bataller, and Mrs. Sorlí]] For your defence, Mr Candela Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u151	Thank you. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have come up to this rostrum to question the Government on a matter which, although of rabies today, is one of the great problems that this country has, and it is the Government's power to automatically suspend provisions and resolutions of the Autonomous Communities when they are brought before the Constitutional Court. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, Article 161(2) of our Constitution states that the Government's challenge to the Constitutional Court of these autonomous rules will result in the suspension of the provision or resolution appealed against. A suspension that occurs automatically because of the mere fact that you invoke Article 161.2. Mr Catalá, believe me that we have not come here to challenge your right to resort to 161.2, but we are saying that we must order it more effectively. The letter of 161.2 and the development of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court has left the autonomous communities - this is a reality - in a state of absolute defence against the coercion exercised by their Government. Moreover, in the reform of the 2015 Constitutional Court you have been blackmailing the autonomous communities, who are forced to lower their democratic will and parliamentary initiative in the bilateral commissions, as you arrive and say: Either you accept what we say or you face a calvary in the Constitutional Court that can last a long time. I have begun this inquiry by stating that this issue is rooted in the depths of the constitutional debate and I reaffirm it. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, to the words of a very wise Basque Member, Vizcaya Retana, in the debate on 161.2 in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Public Liberties, which took place in 1978. He said: Postponing for five months the suspension of any rule or act may in fact and in practice mean a continuous and constant boycott of the legislative and executive activity of the autonomous community. Because while the five-month period is not excessive with regard to certain rules whose implementation and effects are long-term, we can find ourselves with a multitude of short-term provisions of necessary rapid application. Rules which are suspended by the mere fact that you consider that they should be challenged. Today seems to be the debate that began in 1978. Mr Catalá - I would like you to be Mr Montoro, who always tells us that we are crying; now there is a democratic advance in this country and the Valencians are no longer stealing, now they are crying - I would like to tell you that you, since we are ruling, have convened the bilateral commission eleven times by laws emanating from the Valencian Parliament, and in those eleven bilateral commissions the same situation always occurs; you arrive there with the absolute blackmail of telling us: either you accept what we say or we go to an eight-year calvary. I'm going to give you data, because this isn't an invention. The 15 unconstitutionality appeals brought at the initiative of his Government and decided by the Constitutional Court in 2015 were, on average, 789 days late compared with the deadlines for such proceedings in the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court. If we look at the same data in 2016, we see that the thing has not improved much; more than 668 days of average delay. If we look at the average in competition conflicts, we leave at 1491 days. You know, Minister Catalá, how much is 789 days? More than twenty-six months, more than two years with the rule possibly suspended, and this on average, because in some cases it has reached even eight years. Does this seem normal to you? Does that seem fair to you? Do you think this respects the self-government of the autonomous communities? Not to me, Mr. Catalá. That is why I rise here today on behalf of Compromís, on behalf of the Valencian group, to denounce the vicious circle that generates the abuse of automatic suspension of autonomous provisions and resolutions by his Government and the scandalous delays to which the Constitutional Court has accustomed us. I would like to conclude this first intervention, ladies and gentlemen, with a topical reflection, the abuse of the provisions of 161.2. Its use for purposes other than those envisaged by the constituents has generated, generated and generated a profound disaffection of citizens not only towards their Government but also towards State institutions. And you should know - with more reason for the position you hold and even for the professional career that has been forged - that the strategy that your Government has carried out to reject any political conflict and bring it to court is a profound damage to the institutions of the State, which are not you. Let me return to the constitutional debates, to Amendment No 644, proposed by the independent group, by thirteen senators of actual designation, which proposed to reduce the time limit from five months to thirty days. Do you know how you justified it, Minister? In this way, I quote: This possibility may constitute a serious attack on autonomy and may involve the Constitutional Court in a political dispute, with serious risk to its prestige. With serious risk to the prestige of the Constitutional Court. Visionaria is perhaps also the independent grouping, isn't it? Mr Catalá, 161.2 and its development by the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court is only one of the edges of our imperfect political system, one that requires a solution in a wider reform framework that has to respond to the challenges we have and those that are to come. The Valencian group goes up here to say that we want to move towards greater clarification of the multi-level government we have. There we are. We cannot remain silent in the destabilization that you submit to the institutions of the State, in the chaos that you want to impose on our political system, nor, much less, in the attack that you continually make on the autonomous communities. I'm done. To solve the territorial question, which we have said repeatedly that it is not only Catalonia - this has to be very clear, it is not only Catalonia - requires a height of vision and a sense of state. I don't know if you have it, but we're asking you. We also ask you to think that this State is composed not only of your Government but also of the autonomous communities, of your institutions and above all and fundamentally of your people. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Candela Serna. To answer this question, the Minister of Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u153	Thank you, President. Firstly, I wanted to clarify some of the issues raised in your speech and also in the text of the inquiry which, in my view, are quite far from reality. You speak of an unbearable weakening of self-government, so, in quotes, and I think that is not true, ladies and gentlemen. Spain is one of the most decentralized countries in the world, and it is not that I say it here in this rostrum, as the data of the international bodies, the European Commission, the OECD and the Bank of Spain certify. For example, the European Commission's report of February this year sets out what it calls a regional authority index in which it assesses institutional development, the scope of policy, fiscal autonomy, financial autonomy, legislative capacity, capacity for unconstitutional legislative reform, and says the European Commission that we are one of the most decentralized countries in the world. Therefore, Your Honor, I do not believe that there is such a weakening or a position of weakness of the Autonomous Communities vis-à-vis the State; rather on the contrary. I believe that the right to autonomy of nationalities and regions recognized in article 2 of our Constitution is fully consolidated, regulated at such broad levels as I have just referred to; it is not a statement of part, it is not what I say, as the international reports in this area say. You have also mentioned a very strong expression that speaks of continued blackmail of the Autonomous Communities in the context of bilateral cooperation commissions. Allow me to differ absolutely from that approach, for as soon as we know the functioning of these bilateral commissions - and I assure you that I know them - of the subcommittees that are set up and of the working groups, which are the ones that analyse disputes, which negotiate solutions to solve these discrepancies, no one could say that they are formats in which no form of blackmail is exercised towards anyone. These bodies, especially the subcommittees and working groups, Your Honor, have an eminently technical character and I assure you that they are not engaged in any blackmail, but rather in negotiating with some results - which I will mention later - that I believe are good proof that they work properly. Thirdly, you mention the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court on the suspension of the contested rule. I would recommend that you read article 33 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, which governs the whole negotiation process that I have mentioned. This is the way, Your Honor, that we want to promote from the government; in no case the way of abuse and imposition, but that of prior negotiation. We are convinced that dialogue is always the key to resolving disputes, regardless of whether they are, Your Honor, judicial, business, neighbourhood, family, trade union, and of course political and institutional. Let me give you some data that I think are very significant. The bilateral commissions for cooperation between the State Administration and the Autonomous Communities have resolved 470 procedures from those provided for in article 33.2 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court; 337 in procedures promoted by the State and 133 in procedures promoted by the Autonomous Communities. Of that total, 299, 66.3% have ended agreements, and the percentage rises to 72.6% when it comes to the procedures that the State initiates or promotes. In relation to the Valencian Community, Your Honor - I am sure you know it very well - during the 10th Legislature the State filed three unconstitutionality appeals. The Valencian Community submitted three direct appeals to the Constitutional Court: two against Decree-Law 12/2011, amending the Civil Prosecution Act, and one against Decree-Law 8/2014, approving urgent measures for growth, competitiveness and efficiency. With regard to the procedure provided for in article 33.2 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, a total of 11 procedures relating to Valencian rules were initiated during the 10th Legislature. In nine cases, total agreements were reached within the relevant bilateral commission and two cases were appealed to the court. During the XI Legislature, the State did not file any appeal against any Valencian rule, while the Valencian Community did file one against Law 48/2015, which approved the General Budgets of the State for the year 2016; an appeal which, by the way, was dismissed by the Constitutional Court. With regard to the procedures of article 33.2 of the Organic Law, only a procedure was initiated in that XI Legislature at the request of the State. And, ladies and gentlemen, after the negotiations, no agreement was reached, but no appeal was made to the Constitutional Court either. In the last few months of this XII Legislature, the State has filed an appeal with the Constitutional Court against Law 10/2016, of the Parliament of the Valencian Community, appointing senators representing the Valencian Community. And with regard to Article 33.2, six proceedings have been initiated, of which two have been fully agreed, one has been appealed and the other three are still pending. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to make it clear that this is a normal system of institutional relations between governments, of debate, of analysis, of expert groups, of political analysis as well. It seems to me, therefore, that the Government does not in any way abuse litigation, it does not in any way abuse the powers that the legal system puts at its disposal. Ladies and gentlemen, one way to help reduce this contentiousness, this conflictivity, would certainly be to go to the origin, to the Spanish regulatory production, and we should certainly give some thought to the so high number of rules, of laws, that occur in our country by all the bodies that have competence to do so. We should also be able to use some previous mechanism, such as that established by laws 39/2015 and 40/2015 by the Government, to allow for an analysis of the need for standards before their adoption. I am convinced, Your Honor, that in a State as decentralized as Spanish it is necessary to extend the mechanisms of collaboration and coordination between the different administrations within the framework of an institutional loyalty to which we are all called. All administrations must work together to avoid the duplicity of competences, the duplicity of procedures and excessive regulation, which burden growth and generate a certain detachment on the part of citizens. It seems to me that managing public resources with the highest levels of effectiveness and efficiency is the main duty and task of the responsible governments, but I am also sure, Your Honor, that from your intervention we should not deduce a reflection that on the part of the Government of the nation - of any government to which this House and its citizens have given their support and confidence - should not make use of the capacities and powers conferred on it by the legislation. I am sure that is not the reflection that your honor wants to bring here, and even less that when the government exercises the powers, powers and powers attributed to it by the regulatory framework, that is damaging - I do not know if I misunderstand your lordship - the institutions. Are you saying that the Government should stop exercising its responsibility, that it should stop exercising its powers? In any case, Your Honor, what you can certainly do - how can you not - is to promote legislative reforms or the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, or if you consider it necessary to promote reflection on constitutional reform. If we all conclude that we need to amend the current article 161 or the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, we will have the opportunity to discuss it, to reflect, to assess how our State of Autonomy has worked, how our Constitutional Court works, how the Government exercises its powers and competences. In this context of dialogue and of sure reflection that we could reach conclusions, but I assure you that in the meantime, as long as this is the regulatory framework, the Government will continue to exercise its powers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u154	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Candela Serna, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u155	Thank you. Minister, you have spoken of institutional loyalty and I agree. The first thing your government should do - especially the president, Mariano Rajoy - is to be loyal to the Valencian institution, to meet and not to insult, as he has been insulting for a long time, saying we were crying. There is one issue that I would like to make clear, and that is that we have at no time said that the competence state should - to put it mildly - be disqualified from resorting to 161.2, but we say that it should be improved and clarified. You quote all the agreements of the bilateral commission. Of course, it just can't be any other way. It can't be otherwise because what we face with the autonomous communities, if we don't come to an agreement there, is a seven-year calvary. There are no conditions of equity when we sit down and negotiate in the bilateral committee. That's what we're saying. We're not saying anything else. I wanted to add one point. When I did a reflection of the Constitutional Court it was not mine, it was Francisco Rubio Llorente, who was vice president of the Constitutional Court, who said in 2015 that they are trying to get the Constitutional Court to do the dirty work of the People's Party, they are throwing on the backs of the Constitutional Court a political burden that will eventually crush it. What are you saying here? Two things: one, you do not resort to the Constitutional Court to resolve political conflicts; and two, let us improve the functioning of the State with proposals. I add proposals that I understand that from day 2 we will have to discuss in this country when the constitutional melon opens. Two issues. If the judges of the Constitutional Court allud - they have done so several times - to having a lot of work and therefore take eight years or five or six years to decide, let us amend 159.1 of the Constitution, let us increase if there is a need for judges in the Constitutional Court. [[The Lord]] Second proposal: Why not talk about removing the automatic suspension by challenge of the Government to certain rules? Let us leave that power to the Constitutional Court as a precautionary measure, on the initiative of the parties, but that the decision falls within the jurisdiction of the court. Go up here and tell me whether or not you accept this, whether or not you accept that in the bilateral commission there is a problem, the asymmetry of power, because, if you do not accept it, what you are saying to the citizenry is that you do not like order, that your power emanates precisely from disorder, from taking advantage of the margins of the law to impose your political will. That's the point. I hope you'll answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u156	To conclude the debate, the Minister of Justice has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u157	Thank you, President. Your Honor, you tell me about the institutional loyalty with the Generalitat and I believe that we practice it daily by the Government in multiple bilateral meetings of the Councillors with the corresponding ministers, the President of the Generalitat and the President of the Government, at the Conference of Presidents, where the Valencian Generalitat had an active participation... Therefore, there are many and very frequent forums in which institutional loyalty is practiced and where efforts are made to coordinate the interests of all Spaniards and to ensure that the interests of Valencians are fully represented in the policies that the Government is pursuing. It seems to me that the proposals that have to do with the reform of the Constitution are important enough and important enough so that it is not a question of a minister going up to this rostrum to accept or to stop accepting. Therefore, we will work on this issue when it is time and certainly with the utmost willingness to assess, as I said before, how our institutions, our instruments, our mechanisms of conflict resolution have worked, in a composite State, a highly decentralized State, which necessarily has to generate some kind of conflict, and see if we can be able to improve it. But let me also point out that in order to avoid conflict we must certainly work better on the rules. I am referring both to the quality of the regulatory technique and to the negotiation, the dialogue and the debate that you are calling for in later terms, when the rule has been adopted, to avoid litigation and conflictivity. I would demand it at the previous stage, when these projects are drafted, prepared and processed. There are many examples of how both the Government and the Generalitat Valenciana and the Parliament of the Valencian Community are adopting rules that generate tensions, discrepancies and conflict. Valencians probably deserve more legal certainty, less improvisation and less interested use of the rules. The rules should not be made to play politics or create problems for citizens but to solve them. I think there are some very recent examples, such as teaching in different languages - Valencian, Spanish and English - where tensions are being highlighted, discrepancies, lack of consensus and the use of rules that are then suspended or annulled by the courts. In this case, yes, by the ordinary courts of justice, which have shown that some decree of the Generalitat is not in accordance with the law. Having to then make decree-laws to play that kind of approach and, without a doubt, to generate a subsequent constitutional dispute does not seem to me to be the best example of how to seek solutions, how to find in dialogue and agreement the solution to the problems and debates that may be in Valencian society, because, without a doubt, it will not be imposing them in this way. Your Honor, in order to solve the problems of institutional relations between the Government of the nation and the Government of the Generalitat, the first thing we should all do is to think about the general interest and the interest of the Valencians and not about partisan or partisan political objectives, not even in some nationalist obsessions, because I believe that fanaticism does not lead us anywhere, it simply leads us to disagreement and conflict. And as I understand from your speech that what you want is to work, as we want, for a prosperous, open and supportive Valencian Community, I am sure that we can do so from dialogue, from negotiation and never from imposition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u158	Thank you very much, Minister. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, to take into account the serious decisions that the Government is adopting against the legitimate and democratic right of Catalans to decide on the future policy of Catalonia. [[Señor CAMPUZANO]] [[File number 172/000060]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u159	We move on to the next item on the agenda. Urgent appeal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano, to report on the serious decisions being taken by the Government in the face of the legitimate and democratic right of Catalans to decide the political future of Catalonia. For his defence, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u160	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, my group raises this question in view of the serious events that are taking place in Catalonia, caused by the decisions taken by the Government. Other parliamentary groups have also raised this question in a similar way, and we also believe that the debate with the Vice-President is essential because the Government is taking action without the support of this House. Last week, in a debate prompted by the Citizens' initiative, the plenary refused to support the Government in this regard. Furthermore, the package of measures affecting Catalonia's self-government has not been validated at any time by the House. The Government is wrong in its policy of repression in Catalonia. If we take a look at what is happening in Catalonia, ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely serious. The fundamental rights of citizens, the rights of freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, freedom of thought, freedom of printing, postal secrecy are being violated. If propaganda is sought, political acts are prohibited, public office is intimidated. I myself was asked last week, before I intervened in a meeting of my party, to identify myself and not to talk about the referendum. In 2017. He's abusing power. Nearly 80 per cent of the mayors of Catalonia are threatened by the prosecution; fourteen officials of the Government of Catalonia have been arrested; the Government of the Generalitat facilities have been raided. It is an absolutely disproportionate criminal response to a deeply political crisis. The self-government of Catalonia is being liquidated and it is being done, as I said, without any legal coverage. Mr. Legarda recalled in a question that the attempt to intervene with the Catalan police is being made in breach of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia and in abuse of a law that has ceased to be in force in this area after the adoption of the Statute of 2006. There is a massive deployment of the National Police and the Civil Guard in Catalonia, and those policemen and those civilian guards, when they are sent to Catalonia, are thrown out to the cry of 'A for them!', with a speech of hatred, Madam Vice President, which I demand you to condemn, to condemn the words that express hatred towards the citizens of Catalonia. I do not know if you really believe that this set of measures that the Government is taking serves to resolve the political situation in Catalonia. They call us criminals, they have even accused us of beatings, when the only ones who have made coups in Spain have done so precisely in defense of the unity of Spain and against the demands of Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen, that abuse of force by the State today in Catalonia is being perceived by Catalan society as an illegitimate use of State force. They want to frighten the citizens, they want to humiliate the institutions of self-government of Catalonia, but, look, that effort is being useless, because today the response of Catalan society, in all its plurality and in all its complexity, expresses that the nation has stood up. From Barça to Primavera Sound, from professional colleges to much of the associative world; all Catalan society is telling the Government that the use of force it makes is not legitimate and that it abuses its position of force. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, today they treat Catalonia as if it were a foreign land. They already behave as if Catalonia were an independent country, because if they showed the respect that the institutions and citizens of Catalonia deserved, they would not cause such abuse of force. You have renounced to convince the Catalans; many years ago you renounced it, many years ago you renounced to have a political project for Catalonia, you have renounced it. You have decided that what matters to you is simply to impose your authority and your will. Ladies and gentlemen, this political attitude or, if I may say so, this anti-political attitude that you are maintaining has made the discussion today not just a discussion about whether we Catalans have the right to decide our future or whether the best bet that Catalan society has is the stake for independence. They have placed this debate in the debate on democracy, but not democracy in Catalonia, but democracy in Spain. A State like Spanish, which faces these challenges, decides that it does not want to look like the United Kingdom or Canada, but chooses to look like Turkey, decides that it does not want to follow the path of political and democratic to solve an issue that is fundamentally political and democratic. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that this has happened in the history of Spain, I repeat, it is not the first time. On each of the occasions when Catalonia has risen demanding recognition of its national reality, demanding recognition of its level of self-government and raising the flag of freedom, this has made Catalonia's cause of freedom the cause of democracy in Spain. It happened at the beginning of the 20th century, in 1931 and during the transition and today it is once again a democratic cause. And we appeal to all the democrats in the House and, in particular, to the Socialist Party to accompany us in the defence of democracy and freedoms. The events that are taking place in Catalonia these days are of such gravity that the wound that has been caused in Catalan society is very deep. I don't know if you're aware of the wounds you're causing, but whatever happens in the near future, those wounds won't heal easily. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, ladies and gentlemen of the Government and Madam Vice-President, you are the main political leaders of what is happening, because nothing that is happening is any surprise. In 2010, President Montilla already spoke of the disconnection that was taking place in Catalan society and previous spokesmen of our political force from those seats warned of that train crash. It was announced. It was announced that if in response to the demands of Catalonia there was no political response - indeed, the only political response that occurred during the years of the absolute majority government was to insist on the process of re-centralisation - the train crash was inevitable. We're on it. And in the train crash, who has the most power, who has the most strength is the one who is most responsible and is what you are, the ones responsible for this crisis. There has been incompetence, there has been negligence and there has been no sensitivity to deal with a matter that required the Spanish Government to deal with the fact, the fact that millions of Catalans have been demanding in recent months the right to vote, that the Parliament of Catalonia, in its vast majority, put forward formulas for the Catalans to decide. You have decided to ignore absolutely that reality, and that is incompetence, negligence and lack of sensitivity. Ladies and gentlemen, you have all the strength, all the power and you want to show it to us in each of the speeches that are taking place in Catalonia, but, ladies and gentlemen, in Catalonia you have already lost the battle of moral reason; in Catalonia no one thinks and no one believes that moral reason is in their hands, and that is already the first triumph of those we defend on 1 October, of those we defend the right to decide, of those we defend independence. You may crush us; I don't know, it seems that's what you're trying to do. The other day Mr. Xuclà, in his appearance, quoted Unamuno saying, "Maybe they will beat us, but they will not convince us." Yes, they may beat us, because, let's see, we are willing in a peaceful, civic and democratic way to continue to stand foolishly, but I assure you that you have not convinced a single Catalan that it makes sense to be part of a State that treats its citizens in this way. On the contrary, these days, in these days, we are living like many Catalans who do not share the objective of independence or the need for a referendum, perplexed by the repression that the Spanish Government is arbitrating, have decided to aim for the defense of freedom, the defense of fundamental rights and the defense of the cause of democracy in Catalonia. Again, the great machine that makes us strong is the ability of the People's Party government to give more people reason to point to the cause of independence. Madam Vice-President, I demand, on behalf of millions of citizens of Catalonia, that the repression be completed, that the powers of the Generalitat be restored - especially the powers violated in financial matters - and that the Mossos d'Esquadra be stopped from being disturbed and that they be allowed to fulfil their functions of citizen security and, above all, that they let us vote, that the Catalans be allowed, on 1 October, to exercise their right to decide freely. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u161	Thank you, Mr. Campuzano. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Vice-President, Minister for the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u162	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Campuzano, your honor is asking me on behalf of the Democratic Party of Catalonia. That is their strength and legitimacy. I think we should all be much more respectful of Catalonia and speak each one on behalf of whom we represent and not go up to this rostrum to praise the unique voice of Catalonia as a whole. [[Applauds]] His lordship asks me about two concepts in which political decision-making lies in a constitutional system such as ours, two indissoluble concepts, legitimacy and democracy, and makes this reference to a referendum of self-determination that the Government of the Generalitat, formed, among others, by its party, has called for this Sunday. This interpellation, Mr Campuzano, if we were among people who respect the rule of law and therefore the separation of powers, could be substantiated with a simple affirmation, and it is that the Constitutional Court, the highest interpreter of the Constitution and the guarantor of the fundamental rights of all citizens, has said that this referendum is illegal and unconstitutional, that it violates the law of the Spaniards, that it is illegitimate and undemocratic, and has suspended it. The problem, Mr Campuzano, is that you do not want to respect that decision and you ask others not to respect their foundations either. You claim that, since you want to ignore it, the Government also ignores the decisions of the courts. He wants the Government of Spain to ignore the constitutional framework for the Generalitat de Catalunya, the independenceists to whom it merely represents, to impose their political will against the law and against all the citizens to whom that law protects. Mr Campuzano, you know and I reiterate that you are neither in our hands nor in our democratic will. It is not legitimate, it is not democratic and, therefore, it is not possible. Let's talk about legitimacy. You have used two concepts: legitimacy and democracy. It's about legitimacy. I respect that your group is independent. Is it legitimate to be independent? Yes, it is. Our Constitution protects the ideological freedom of any Spanish; its only limit is the freedoms of others that protect the law. What is not legitimate is that you force others to be independent, or at least demand us in this House to act as if we were. I insist, being independent is legitimate, and defending your position is legitimate as long as it is done within the democratic framework, by democratic methods and by legal channels, by complying with the law and not requiring, as you have done here, in this rostrum, the Government to fail to comply with it or at least allow others, you, to do so. If Mr Puigdemont wants Catalonia to be an independent state, the Parliament can put it through the constitutional procedures that the Spaniards have signed, bring it to this House, discuss it and, if accepted by their lords, submit that decision to the Spaniards. This is how things have been done since 1978 when we ceased to be a dictatorship and decided to govern ourselves by democratic methods, we all decided to submit to the law and not to the will of a dictator. Of what neither the Government nor any State has the capacity to deprive the citizens, the Spaniards, of what is primarily theirs in a democracy that is valued: the capacity to give an opinion on how Spain is and how it is organized. You want a party to decide for all of them and that they, the Spanish, are limited to accepting a result and a decision in which they have not intervened. Curious way to understand democratic legitimacy. Now let's talk about democracy, about its way of practicing it. First, let's start with the Parliament, the Parliament of Catalonia. For a parliament to be called democratic, it must respect the rule of law and its own rules of operation. Tell me if this is how the Parliament of Catalonia worked. Is there a democratic parliament in which the agenda is hidden from its Members? Is a parliament democratic in which the opinion of its lawyers is ignored? Is a parliament democratic in which the opinions of its Secretary-General are contradicted? Is a parliament democratic in which the opposition is denied the word? Or is it that for those Members of the Parliament of Catalonia, Mr Campuzano, Catalonia is also a foreign land like you want to sell us in this House? Is a parliament democratic in which sufficient freedom and necessary reflection are prevented from being amended? Is a parliament democratic in which its members are denied the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, which is most responsible for ensuring that the provisions of self-government are in conformity with the Statute and the Constitution? [[Applauds]] Mr Campuzano, in your own words, is that to respect the institutions of the Catalan Parliament or is that simply to humiliate your institutions of self-government? [[Applauds]] What is more, Mr Campuzano, do you believe that a parliament respects itself when it intends to adopt the two most important decisions in your opinion and that they defend so much in six hours, nightly, without debate and without reflection on the representatives of the majority of Catalans? If the action of this Parliament is its parameter of democracy, we could end this question with that reflection, but let's keep talking about democracy. A democracy is full when there is separation of powers, when the decisions of the judges are respected and their decisions are complied with already give us reason or take it away from us; but rather, it seems that their idea of separation of powers is the power of selection: the Government of the Generalitat chooses the rules that are complied with, the courts to which they are appealed and the judgments that are complied with; or, more importantly, is its image of separation of powers what is represented by the president of the Parliament of Catalonia, microphone in hand, arming against the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, which, by the way, is another institution recognized and collected in its own Statute? [[Applauds]] Third. Your Honor, a true democracy must be guaranteed by the rule of law, by a system of rights and obligations, protected and guaranteed by law and its enforcement. The laws are to be complied with and, if it is not agreed, they are debated and changed democratically. The rulers cannot choose at their own will those who are fulfilled and those who are not. Please note that not even the law of legal transition has dared so much; I do not see that it is contemplated in that magnanimous law of democracy that the Generalitat has the capacity to approve or not and that citizens have it to respect or not the rules that you approve. Fourth. Mr Campuzano, a democracy puts the rights of citizens at the level of the obligations of the rulers, at the same level. Do not subject the citizens on foot, the public officials of all kinds, the mayors and councillors, to whom you are always opposed even if they govern, to the tension of having to breach the law; it does not pose to society as a whole the unsustainable incoherence that the imposition of disobedience entails. All the judicial associations of Spain have recently said this: the disobedience that despises the legal norms that protect dissent is not a heroic act, it is a totalitarian act. [[Applauds]] Fifth. Mr. Campuzano, a democracy is full only when there is freedom, when everyone's freedoms are respected and guaranteed, and more than any government and those who support it should do so. In a democracy neither silences the dissenter nor dishearses the opponent and, above all - you have spoken of hatred - the opponent is not pointed with hatred. I have always condemned the manifestations of hatred, come from whom they come, and I have received some in my own home. [[The lady]] I have no problem in condemning them, but I would like you to come up here to this rostrum and condemn the CUP cartelry where the councillors, the mayors, the deputies of citizens, the Socialist Party and the People's Party are pointed out - as in the old West times - to the councillors, the mayors. [[Applauds]] In a democracy that is valued, the law is respected and enforced and the rule of law, when it isfrontally attacked by the decisions of some rulers to the detriment of the freedom of the governed, must react. And so we do with firmness but with moderation, with determination but with proportionality, with the law and only with the law. How did we get here? You're the one who talked about the year 2010, not me. I will also tell you the version of your facts. In 2010, when your party won the autonomic elections with its last best result, you formed a government and this party, which so little cares about Catalonia, supported you two budgets, with great electoral wear but supported you two budgets to your government in the year 2010 that you brought to this House. This party, which you call - great democracy - enemies of Catalonia, made it possible for public accounts to be approved for two years in Catalonia. We helped prevent the rescue of our country, we attended the Generalitat of Catalonia which could not be financed with patriotic bonds and we ensured public services. They advanced elections, lost twelve seats, had to support themselves in the Republican Left of Catalonia and entered the dynamics of the referendum yes or yes. They went back to advance the elections, they were plebiscite women. They did not achieve what they wanted with the plebiscite and had to get into the hands of the CUP, which places and removes presidents of the Generalitat and puts and removes roadmaps in Catalonia. That's how we got to where we got to, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] I'm done. I want to invite you to a reflection. The last legislature you were sitting where Mr Rivera and his group are today. They should consider what placed them in the penultimate row of this Chamber. They should think about where it's taken them so far. You're on time, Mr. Campuzano, think, think. Return to law and democracy and, if I may, to your liberal and democratic path. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Campuzano i Canadés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, I can speak to you on behalf of millions of Catalans, among other things, because most of the representatives of Catalonia in this House - those of the Republican Left and those of En Comú Puem - share the same diagnosis of the situation; most of the representatives in this House and in the Senate. [[Applauds]] Therefore, there is no discussion about whether we have legitimacy or not. Secondly, you make that speech without assuming any political responsibility for what has led us to this situation. You set up - and have not asked for forgiveness - a massive campaign throughout Spain collecting signatures against the Statute of Catalonia that sold and explained as signatures against Catalonia. [[Applauds]] You have made political anti-catalanism for decades a voting machine in the rest of the state. You pressured the Constitutional Court to break the constitutional pact in 2010. And you have made a deeply illegitimate application and interpretation of the Constitution. You know why? Because you tell us: come to the House to defend a reform of the Constitution that can allow Catalonia to be an independent country and for centuries we will vote no. If the Spanish political system is unable to understand that if there is a strong, persistent and broad majority in Catalonia that wants to be able to vote only independence, a political regime that is legitimate and democratic must allow that to be exercised. [[Applauds]] What justifies precisely the decisions taken by the Parliament of Catalonia on 6 and 7 September is that for the majority of the Parliament of Catalonia the constitutional system of Spain, the result of those decisions, of that judgment of 2010 and of your refusal to address the fundamental challenge, has done so illegitimate. That is the train crash, its political incompetence is the one that has led to the train crash, because Catalonia has kept open the offer of dialogue until the end. A few days ago the mayor of Barcelona, the president of the Generalitat, the president of the Parliament, the spokespersons of the Democratic Party insisted and we told them: listen, we are open to dialogue, before October 1 and after October 1 and against that: an indiscriminate and disproportionate use of the Penal Code. Madam Vice President, I'm hallucinating. Do you know of any political conflict of these dimensions in any part of the world that has been resolved on the basis of judges, prosecutors and police in the face of a peaceful, civic, joyful, fully mobilized and interclassist population? [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]] Madam Vice President, when on the same day in the Liceu you sing The reapers in protest for the actions of the government and the stowers announce that they do not intend to supply the ships of the Civil Guard in the port of Barcelona, is that the nation is standing, and in front of a nation that is standing, you more Civil Guard, more Police, more judges, more prosecutors. [[Applauds]] They're not going to kneel, they're not going to humiliate us. They will like it little or much, but Sunday will be a success, it will be the expression of a society that will go out on the street, it will go out to exercise its rights with all the conviction of the world, convinced that the cause we defend is the just cause, because it is the cause of democracy, it is the cause of freedom, it is the cause that has always moved humanity; and against that, repression. Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría, Vice-President of the Government, I refuse to accept intellectually that dialogue is not possible, I am naive. Therefore, from 1 October, listen to what the Catalans say and engage in a dialogue with the Generalitat in order to put an end to this democratic mandate. Know that we will all pass, but whatever happens in the coming weeks, make it clear that Catalonia's will to be a nation, to exercise as a nation, to reach national fullness, to that independent state with which we dream Catalans, will persist and win. Madam Vice-President, we are going to win this battle for freedom and democracy. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Catalan Democratic Party, members of the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u165	To conclude the debate, on behalf of the Government, I have the floor of the Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u166	Mr. Campuzano, do you know what is one of the worst signs of intolerance in a politician? Speak from this rostrum on behalf of unanimity. [[Applauds]] You have come up to this rostrum and said: our cause, that of the independenceists, is a just cause. On Sunday, the whole town of Catalonia will be on the street. The whole town of Catalonia, we're convinced, and it's going to be a party. Mr Campuzano, I think I have much more respect for the legitimacy of being independent than you do for the legitimacy of not being independent among the citizens of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Because you want to call us all to your party, to say whether or not to the referendum as organized by the Generalitat de Catalunya, which long ago lost the shame of trying at least to disguise a certain neutrality. You want to speak as if Catalonia were uniform, one hundred percent independenceists. We know that there are many, and that is the plurality of a democratic system. And so that we can coordinate that plurality of the democratic system there is one thing that is called law and is called democratic procedures and is called the Constitution. You come here and talk about laws. The Constitution, that framework, was voted on by 90% of Catalans, Your Honor. Do you want to change it? Come to this House, convince people. Didn't you talk about convincing but not winning? It convinces the Members of this House and the Spaniards that it is better for Catalonia to be independent of Spain. I don't defend it because I think it's worse. I believe that the Catalans and all the Spanish together have been able to build a democracy, a modern state, a state that has a voice throughout the European Union and I cannot defend that Catalonia wants to isolate and impoverish it throughout Europe. You have made me part of the next question and that of Mr Domènech. He goes up to this rostrum, speaks for you, for the lords of Esquerra de Catalunya and for the lords of En Comú Puem. You see, Mr. Domènech, that, as little as you like, they've put you on one side. Mr. Campuzano, in a precious state, the rulers respect the law. Self-determination claims have existed in States around us. Our Constitution does not include the right of self-determination, because it was decided by the constituents, nor is it recognized by most States in our environment. When the Veneto proposed in its assembly to convene a consultation of self-determination and the Italian Constitutional Court said that it was not constitutional, they respected that decision in the Veneto, and that they have a problem there that we do not have in Spain, and that is that there are parts of its Constitution that cannot be revised - here, all -. They convince the majority and bring about a reform of the Constitution. And isn't Germany a democracy parameter for you either? Are they as anti-democratic as the Spanish government or those who think differently than you? They also did not consider a referendum on self-determination to be constitutional and legal. And, by the way, they cannot completely reform their Constitution. Mr. Campuzano, the first respect that we owe everyone in the people of Catalonia - with this I finish, and I do it as I started - is to speak each one by his name. My colors come out when you come up to this rostrum to despise the voice, even if it was only one's, but there are many, of those who do not commune with independence or with secession or with fracture or division. There is no single thought, no matter how much you want to impose it with that referendum. And voting doesn't always mean democracy. Study our history, study the referendum posters in our history. It'll give you a lot to think about. Voting is democratic when one votes and does not limit the rights of others, and you are limiting in Catalonia those of those who do not think like you and in the rest of Spain absolutely those of those who want and have the ability to decide how our country, which is Spain, is organized. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u167	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, on the plans the Government has to overcome THE CURRENT CRISIS WITH CATALUONE [[File number 172/000062]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u168	Urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea on the plans of the Government to overcome the current crisis with Catalonia. Mr. Domènech.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u169	Madam Vice-President, I am speaking to you as the spokesman for En Comú Puermes, of the candidacy that won twice the elections in Catalonia and the last general elections, with a very clear proposal on the subject we are living on: a referendum agreed. I also speak to you as a Catalan, I believe that I have that condition and because of my status as a Catalan I believe I also belong to that very large majority of Catalans who at the moment absolutely reject the intervention of the self-government and its institutions in Catalonia, that very large majority of Catalans - which I believe also exists among their voters - who want to have a referendum so that Catalonia can decide. I think I can talk. [[Applauds]] This, unfortunately, can be the last dialogue that we have had without judges and police in between, without those judges and police that you have put in between an absolutely necessary dialogue before 1 October. It said Machado - in that of the representation, I think you do not represent the Spain of Machado, that you do not represent it either -: 'Today it is always still'. In fact, it would take a single gesture to start serious negotiations before it reaches 1 October. But that would require politics, and here there are many judges and many security forces, but there is no politics. This would require action by the Government, and here again there are many judges, there are many security forces, but there is no action by a Government. Madam Vice-President, you attack and say that we cannot represent the people of Catalonia as a whole. A government that has acted for one part, has acted for some beliefs but has not acted for the entire population of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Because if a government of a state has to send - you will correct me - 2000 police officers to the port of Barcelona and 1000 more to the port of Tarragona it is clear that it is sending a very clear message to the people of Catalonia, or to a part if you want, I don't care, but it sends a very clear message in that sense. The Catalan crisis is obviously a state crisis. You can try to put an end to all your forces on 1 October in Catalonia, but this is already a state-wide crisis, it is a Spanish crisis and, in fact, not only that, it is a European crisis. We see how newspapers like Le Monde, The Times or the New York Times in the United States say they would have to sit down and negotiate a referendum. It is a European crisis when Die Welt, nothing suspected of independenceist causes, tells you directly that, because of the incompetence - and he says directly - of the President of the Government of Spain, this has become a European issue. This is not what I am saying, not what the people of Catalonia are saying, but more and more voices are saying it all over Europe. You have allowed the situation to rot. His phrase for years has been: I don't want nor can I. The truth, that they did not want was obvious, that they could not be a lie, absolutely a lie. An agreed referendum could and could still be held. I'm not going to quote the list of constitutionalists again because you know them too. In fact, what they have done with that lie in the midst of a state crisis has been to lose all legitimacy, not to the voters of En Comú Puem, I believe to the majority of the people of Catalonia. What was your action as a party before all this? And I say as a party because I don't think they've acted as a government. I am absolutely convinced that they have not acted as a government; they have acted as a party. First it was to propitiate the sentence - there, as a party - and the signatures against the decree of the Statute of 2010 that broke the territorial constitution and also broke what says article 152 of the Constitution, that the Statue is a pact that is made between this sovereignty, between the Parliament of Catalonia, and is endorsed by the Catalans as a whole. It is endorsed by a Catalan 'demos'. Once endorsed, it cannot be modified if it is not by the same procedure. And there you acted, not as a force I wanted to govern, but clearly as a party. During these years, they systematically rejected all the Catalan demands for negotiations on the possibility of holding a referendum in Catalonia; they reformed the Constitutional Court in October 2015 to make it a court for the enforcement of judgments before the complaint of international bodies, such as the Venice Commission, which clearly say that this is absolutely unheard of in the international context. But it doesn't end there, and I don't want to go on, but seven hundred mayors called to the D.A. They have intervened - and they have intervened - the self-government of Catalonia; and they have intervened, and I also believe that illegally, and that is going to prove. They have intervened in Catalonia's self-government to the extent that their finances have intervened; and when Catalonia's self-government has intervened what they have done - and it seems to me that they have acted not only as a government, but as a party - is to act, even against the pacts of the Transition itself. Because Catalonia's self-government is a pre-Constitution pact, which enters into the constituent process as a pre-Constitution pact between Suárez and Tarradellas. [[Applauds]] You have become the main - ironically - destroyer, breaker of the 1978 regime. Where you say order, it's actually just chaos right now. And that is what they are provoking with an action that is, again, party rather than government. His logic is a logic of victory and, therefore, of defeat. Whose defeat? Citizens you claim to protect and defend. Because you too are going to mobilize politically on 1 October, and not to defend the rule of law: you have summoned a Spanish flag juror. Is that why they're not going to mobilize politically on October 1st? [[Applauds]] It has been convened by the Madrid People's Party. And when you act as a party and not as a government, you promote what's going on. They suggest that, for example, we see concentrations where there are people of yours who shout 'a for them'. Who are those 'they'? Is that us? Are we the set of Catalans those 'they', to whom we are stuck this cry of 'a for them'? You, from here, are going to get a lot of things. What they are not going to achieve is to break the bonds of solidarity between the various peoples of the State. And from here I mean: Viva Andalucia! Long live that free Andalusia that is also part of the history of Catalonia! And do they do all this to protect the rule of law or do they do it because they're competing with Citizens to see who gets the most Spanish here? [[Applauds]] It's an electoral competition between you. Do they do this to protect the rule of law or to hide the decline of a project, which not only does not have a project for Catalonia - because they do not have - but they do not have a project for Spain right now? They have absolutely no project for Spain. [[Applauds]] In Catalonia, right now, a Metroscopia survey, which is also not suspicious of protecting sovereignist or independenceist causes, says that 94% of the voters in the Republican Left, 90% from the PDECAT, 93% from the CUP, 100% from our voters, 75% from the Socialist Party of Catalonia, 57% from the citizens' voters, and 49% - they lack a hair to be a majority too - of their voters say that this is resolved by a referendum. That's what you've refused to hear. And when they refuse to hear something that is absolutely cross-cutting, which affects almost also the majority of their voters, then, when they refuse to negotiate and refuse to hear, that is perfectly legal and perfectly possible, then yes, Madam Vice-President of the Government, they act against the majority of the people of Catalonia. I do not represent you, but you act against that majority. [[Applauds]] In Catalonia we see very clear images: you take 4000 police and civilian guards to the port of Barcelona and 2000 more to the port of Tarragona, planting a very clear message to the people of Catalonia, and while you do that, when you gather elected officials, representatives of millions of citizens, there you don't put police, there you don't protect them, there you don't act as a government but as a party again, and acting as a party ends up destroying the country itself. You only conceive of a possible Spain, yours, something that accused us. I am sorry, but you are constituting only one possible Spain, that of the flag juror, and you are acting despite being in minority in this House from an exclusive and exclusive conception of Spain, which we are not going to let you do. Not only can you say what we Catalans cannot do, but we can also tell you what you cannot do, saying that you represent Spain, because in all this you do not represent it. [[Applauds]] You talk about independent propaganda and you talk about abduction. Catalans are such extraordinary beings that we are also abducted. Today there will be a table - a table - in Catalonia called a table for democracy, and at that table there are Workers Commissions and UGT - abducted as well - there is the confederation of all the associations of neighbors of Catalonia - abducted as well - the federation of all the associations of parents of Catalonia - abducted as well - and many other entities. Why do you think it's called a table for democracy? Because democracy is being violated in Catalonia and Spain, and it is you who are doing it. In this sense, we are going to live in these days the most transversal mobilization possible, the most plural mobilization possible to affirm several things: that democracy has to be defended, that basic rights and freedoms have to be defended, that the sovereignty of Catalonia has to be affirmed and that the majority of the people of Catalonia - I will even tell you that only two more points are missing for their voters to create it in Catalonia too - believes that Catalonia has the right to decide their future freely. You have long lost Catalonia; it is more I think you have never intended to have it. Although you now make these statements here, I believe that you have long since decided that you lost Catalonia, hence your election results in that country. But I think with what they're doing they're going to lose Spain, too. It's not a time of great certainty; I'm not going to tell you great certainty here, but this one I have. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u170	I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u171	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Domènech, you have quoted Machado here. I, who, like Mr Posada, came from his so-glossed 'rock cards', would have liked him to have defended Machado where he corresponded: in the municipality of Sabadell, where they wanted to remove the plaque for Spaniard and anticatalanist, Mr Domènech. [[Applauds]] The Government of the Municipality of Sabadell, constituted by Esquerra, the CUP, Initiative per Catalunya, Pom, requested a report from a historian, Don Josep Abad, to remove the plaque, along with other renowned Spanish and anti-Catalanists. I hope that, hearing you here today, at least Machado can be treated with a little more respect at Sabadell City Hall. Mr Domènech, this government - and the People's Party, to which you have quoted several times - simply represents the Spaniards who voted for it - by the way, quite more than those who voted for you - so, even if it is just the number, understand that we can speak in that way. Therefore, let us allow the people of the People's Party the ability to interpret the voters of the People's Party, and those of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea to interpret their voters. I think the best way to understand us here is for you to speak for your group and us for the government and the group that supports us, because neither you nor I call us in the morning Catalonia in a loud voice to convey your wishes and wishes to us. That is why it is best for everyone here to confine himself to setting out the political position of the Government or its group. This is not the first time this House has asked the Government about this issue. Our position, Mr Domènech, has not changed: within the law and with the utmost respect... [[Rumors]] Yeah, because we're not going through as much surveys as you are going through to see where it's going. [[Applauds]] It is what is called having principles, which do not need to be many, but to have them very clear. Within the law and with the utmost respect for democratic procedures you will find us, Mr Domènech, in dialogue. But if the only consensus that you are pursuing with the Generalitat is that we skip the rules of democracy, so that your leaders have a referendum yes or yes, it can hardly be described as an offer of dialogue. I reiterate the words that the President of the Government said last Wednesday. Return to law and democracy. It is only there that dialogue is possible. What I no longer have so clear, Mr Domènech, is where you, the commons of Colau and the Lords of Podemos with all your confluence. I've heard them say they didn't line up with anyone. In that political manicism in which you divide the world you boasted at that time of not being anywhere. And today the lords of the Democratic Party of Catalonia spoke for you. It was Catalonia's own deputies Yes, it was Pot, his colleagues in the Parliament, who worked hard to prove that that referendum had no guarantees, who even contrasted it with the Venice Commission to say that it had no guarantees. My question here is, Mr Domènech, what do you intend to do in that unsecured referendum? On 6 and 7 September, two days that can only be called parliamentarians because they were held in a parliament, but not because of what happened in them, their group also suffered abuses of their rights, they did not allow them to speak, amend or ask for reports, and they cried out like others for respect for democracy. It was you, or at least those who joined with you, who said: Junts pel Yes and the CUP want to keep their mouths shut for Members who disagree with their road map, who disagree with the laws in force and with the Council for Statutory Guarantees. They then called buccaneers to those who now accompany them in the demonstrations. Mayor Colau, her confluence partner, continued to maintain until September that the referendum had no guarantees, that it would never endanger the institution, that it would not question or question any official who could be at risk or compromised. One day she called for mobilization, another for participation, and was increasing the pressure - by the way, pressure we all had - but one day she closed a deal and became host to those who fail to comply with the law in exchange for not forcing her to fail to comply with it herself. This is what this is about, Mr. Domènech. You, the adalids of transparent politics, close secret agreements when the rights of Catalans are at stake. [[Several Members: Very well!]] What have you agreed, Mr Domènech, that you have become the adalids of a referendum that remains as illegal as when you denounced it and that you have much less guarantees now than when you demanded it? It continues without an electoral union, without independent polling stations, without electoral administration, without a legal census, with observers supported by the Generalitat, without applicable democratic rules. Sometimes, Mr Domènech, gives me the impression that yours, that of Mr Iglesias and that of Mrs Colau is a game of ambitions on two boards, Catalan and Spanish, in which they converge with everyone who wants to oppose the law and the system, which I remind you that it is a democratic system. In a matter as serious as the one that challenges me, I am very surprised that the end of any of his arguments is always the fault of the People's Party. I haven't heard a single word of criticism of that referendum that so long ago - because for you September must be the Lower Paleolithic - was illegal and unwarranted. Mr. Iglesias made it clear on Sunday, it's not that there were a lot of people, but you were there: This is going to kick the PP out. So don't come here and talk about Catalonia's rights or democracy; democracy was the general elections, the last, won by the People's Party and in which you lost a million votes. Once I asked you in this House, Your Honor, whether when you talk about politics and law, whether when you propose laws in this Parliament is for any Spanish to comply with or for anyone to skip. Implementing the law within the law is not authoritarian, Mr Domènech, neither anti-democratic nor unjust, is fulfilling the will of citizens. What is authoritarian, anti-democratic and unjust is to admit that a Government, simply because it is a Government and because it understands that it has a direct line with the thinking of the majority of citizens every day, skips the law, attends impassively to the failure of public officials to ignore democratic rules, and to participate more or less actively in such non-compliance. Where's your consistency, Mr. Domènech? What do democratic channels claim here and in Catalonia are they willing to admit illegal routes? Why do you talk about agreed solutions if you admit that agreed rules can be unilaterally jumped? Does your lordship defend the separation of powers? It depends on the site, Mr Domènech, because on Wednesdays you come here to control the action of the Executive from the Legislative Power; between week in Catalonia you manifest yourself as deputy of the General Courts against the Judicial Power. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] Do you defend the rule of law, Mr. Domènech? It depends on the moment, because for months it asked for democratic guarantees and today it cries out against those who apply democratic guarantees. Do you defend law enforcement? It depends on the time and the place. You've been talking about repression. Why do you see the presence of the State Security Forces and Bodies as repressive if you are the one outside, on the street, and as a guarantee of your rights and freedoms is the one inside, at the rally? [[Applauds]] Yes, Your Honor, the slaves are for you a violation of rights and freedoms when you are the'scratches' and democratic syrup - as Mr. Churches would say - when your lordships are the'scratches'. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] Mr Domènech, compliance with the law in Spain does not depend on the day of the week or on geographical locations, but above all on what does not depend on ideological positions. Mr. Domènech, the law makes us all the same. Yes, just like the citizens you protect and the rulers who must comply with them, and neither you nor anyone can distinguish which rules can be jumped or who can do so. [[Mrs Díaz Pérez: Tax amnesty]] If you really want to defend democracy, start practicing it equally and at all times and try to regain coherence. You and I have sometimes talked about what can be done in Spain, and I reiterate to you what I have said to you repeatedly. In 1978 all Spaniards were called to vote on their Constitution. They decided that there was no referendum on self-determination in Spain. It was raised in the Constitution by a lord then of Euskadiko Ezkerra and after Herri Batasuna and he dramatically lost that amendment. Self-determination is not included in the Spanish Constitution or in that of the vast majority of the democratic countries that are valued. But if you want the referendum on self-determination, that self-determination in our country, that international law recognizes only for oppressed or colonial peoples, if you want that solution to be in Spain to bring about a reform of the Constitution; convinces an immense majority of Spaniards, convinces this House. If your arguments are so powerful, so powerful, so universal, it won't cost you, Mr. Domènech. But by virtue of the equality that the vote gives, respect the law and the Constitution in the meantime do not change those who are its legitimate owners, the Spanish. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Domènech Sampere has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u173	About Machado don't worry too much, already we worry, we worry in Catalonia. [[Protests]] What he said is a sovereign nonsense that shows that he doesn't know what we did when that happened, which is to defend that Antonio Machado Street and many other streets had to be there. [[Applauds]] That's why he's not getting out. He has told me about the reform of the Constitution and you will continue there, because if you admit something that you know perfectly well, that is that this referendum can be done - and you know it because you have said it constitutionalists of different ideological and absolutely transversal color - you would recognize that you have caused the worst territorial crisis since 1978, because you simply did not want to do one thing, not because you could not do it. It is not a question of reforming the Constitution, it is a question of applying article 92 of the Organic Law of 1980 in order to be able to hold such a referendum. This proposal has been repeatedly made by us and Catalonia. But let's get into the other thing. He gave me every reason and I didn't think he would give it to me, but he did. You have said: You speak as in Comú Puem and we will speak as a People's Party, with the votes we represent here. Ah, but you weren't the government of Spain? Are you the spokesman for the People's Party or are you the vice president of the government? Am I talking to Mr Hernando or the Vice-President of the Government? [[Applauds]] You told me exactly what I was telling you. What's more, saying that also said something else. If you say: I represent my votes, I represent the People's Party, where have all the measures taken to intervene in Catalonia's self-government been discussed? [[Applauds]] You who claim to be defenders of national sovereignty have not dared to bring one of your measures here to discuss them at the headquarters of national sovereignty. You are therefore destroying the country as a party and not as a responsible government. [[Applauds]] I don't know what else to say. Theoretically, I think it's wonderful that you talk to me about separation of powers, of law enforcement, of all those wonderful things, but it's who they are. Whether you speak of separation of powers or of law enforcement, with all the cases of corruption you have, when it is absolutely evident to everyone that you have acted politically in the Judiciary, come here to explain the greatness of Montesquieu, it seems to me at least... I'm not going into that. [[Applauds]] We have a prosecutor general who's failed and who explains to us that everything is illegal. We have a finance minister who intervenes in Catalonia's self-government as the prime finance minister of all Spanish democracy who is also repudiated by this seat, that of national sovereignty, which you claim to defend. With these elements, do they intend to act politically legitimately in relation to Catalonia, do they intend to act legitimately in relation to Spain? I'm not going in because I think... I've told you before. Machado said: in my loneliness I have thought great things that are not true. I believe that you on the basis of listening to yourselves have believed yourself to be great things that are not true, that this referendum is not possible or that you are the defenders of democracy. I'm sorry, listen more to diversity and not just yourself. Whose side are we on? You ask. Of a people that is plural, diverse, with very diverse and alternative projects, that also has different and alternative positions on October 1 and on so many other things - and there are also their voters - but that knows perfectly well that you have intervened in the self-government of Catalonia and in the Catalan institutions, and that knows perfectly well that, despite all the lies you say, this has a clear and simple solution. So, which side are we on? Neither above nor below, on the side of our people, in which you are not. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u174	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u175	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not deny that this inquiry is going to be useful, at least we have saved Don Antonio Machado's square. [[Applauds]] For not wasting your time on your ladies and gentlemen, I am not asking you to read the minutes of the parliamentary session, but I have expressly said in this Tribune that I spoke for the Government of the nation, and more so for the majority that supports you, Mr Domènech. [[Protests by Mr Domènech Sampere]] I'm not going to waste time, tomorrow we'll see it and tomorrow you'll all be conscious. Secondly, Mr Domènech, what few arguments must you have to defend the referendum on self-determination from which you are now the greatest adalides to bring the debate on corruption here. A great argument to defend your position in the referendum of self-determination in Catalonia! It made you better involved in this constitutional debate. [[Applauds]] You quote, and you say here: many constitutionalists, all constitutionalists of the party must think like you. I am much more humble and I am not going to say that they think neither as the government nor as the majority that sustains it, but more than four hundred professors of constitutional law in this country have said the following: 'You do not need to be specialists in constitutional law or contemporary history to know that there is no democracy without subjection to the law.'. 'The limits of legality and decency have been crossed for, appealing to the fundamentalism of a non-existent 'right to decide', dividing Catalan society and preventing the exercise of the rights of parliamentary minorities, endangering coexistence and civil peace'. At least allow me, Mr Domènech, that among that pleyade of constitutionalists that you quote there is some dissident. You claim that there is a referendum of self-determination in our Constitution, and in law there is one thing that is called authentic interpretation that is about who makes the rules, in this case the Constitution. Here I will not quote anyone from our bench or probably from that, but a person who does not know where she would be sitting now, but we do know where she was sitting then: Jordi Solé Tura, father of our Constitution. He said: Can a right of self-determination be lacking that means perpetual blackmail on the territorial entity of Spain and on the stability of our institutional system? Does it make sense from a left-wing perspective to understand the right to self-determination as the possibility that each autonomous community can propose periodically, whatever the requirements of quorum and so on, its right to separate from Spain? Is it possible for a democratic State to survive with this constant prospect of disintegration, with this constant pressure on its institutional stability? I could read many more quotes from Mr.Solé Tura, but there is one I know from memory: A referendum of self-determination in one part of the territory implies that everyone else applauds the result and settle with it. I share with Mr Jordi Solé Tura that this is not a democracy, at least the one he helped build in 1978. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u176	Thank you very much. - the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, on the response that the Government is giving to the people of Catalonia in their desire to exercise their right to decide. [[File number 172/000065]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u177	We continue with the urgent appeal of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, on the response that the Government is giving to the people of Catalonia in their desire to exercise their right to decide. Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor for his defence. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u178	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us live how hundreds of people jail the Civil Guard and the National Police as if it were an expeditionary body destined for Catalonia, so that once they arrive in Catalan lands, they exercise repressive violence against a defenceless population, forcing us to retreat in time and remember the violation by the Constitutional Court of Article 152.2 which laminated the Statute of Autonomy; a violation that was sponsored by the People's Party. But the People's Party believed that the Catalan people would accept the legal castration of the Statue, and that was not the case. The Catalan people reacted and demanded independence. In fact, in 2012 there was an overwhelming majority in the Parliament of Catalonia in favour of the right to decide, which is why in April 2014 some commissioners of the Parliament of Catalonia arrived here and expressed the will of the people of Catalonia to decide their future through a referendum, and the response of the constitutionalist parties was negative; a new contempt that was added to the contempt of the Constitutional Court. And we certainly had only one remedy left; the same one that they had at the time Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, that is, to build a new legality. That is why in September 2015, under this will, this desire, this objective, was called elections, and 48% of Catalan citizens voted yes to independence and 40% did not. The Spanish Government had two options; it could choose to give a democratic response, for example the response that London gave to the Scots when they reached 44% of votes - not 48 as Catalans - which is why the Scots did not need to build a new legality, since London and Edinburgh agreed to hold a referendum. On the other hand, the Spanish response was an authoritarian response, the response of the confrontation; finally, to put the myth of Spain's unity before democracy and to criminalize the results of 27 September. In those elections of 27 September 2015, the Catalan people gave a democratic mandate to the Parliament to engender a new legality, appealing to the inalienable right to exercise self-determination. As I myself - forgive the petulance that I am quoted - I told candidate Rajoy, in the investiture session, his authoritarian response, his authoritarian drift can lead to an absolutely novel scenario, the scenario of the return in the Kingdom of Spain of political prisoners, and I know that Mr Rajoy's response was to mock this deputy - and I refer myself to the Diario de Sesiones -. Well, I think we were right: you chose the authoritarian path, which is why the Generalitat is now involved; in fact, a hidden state of emergency has been declared, freedoms have been twisted, the Constitutional Court has become a guard court of the People's Party government, and it has even been prohibited for the Parliament of Catalonia to discuss laws resulting from a democratic mandate. And of course - look at what a shame - the president of the Catalan Parliament and members of the Bureau have been brought to justice, an unheard of thing in the rich, cultured and democratic Europe in which we live. In addition, the opposition refused to create a paper to ensure that the laws of disconnection, the result of a democratic mandate, could be worked out. Moreover, the opposition parties appealed to the Constitutional Court, which is why - yes, I admit it - I recognize that on 6 and 7 September we had to illuminate the new legality through forceps. Yes, you had to use forceps to light up the new legality, but this is as true as you wanted to abort this new legality. And now where are we? Now we are in a scenario where you have unleashed a real repressive tsunami against freedoms and democratic rights, transforming the prosecution into a remembrance - yes, I say, a remembrance - of the Political-Social Brigade of Francoism. They have created the political-fiscal brigade with Mr. Maza as Commissioner General. They have twisted the law, because calling and holding a referendum is not a crime. Were articles 506 bis and 521 of the Criminal Code not repealed? In addition, the prosecutor's office has usurped the functions of investigating judges, and has issued orders - check - to register printing and newspapers, threaten the media and close hundreds of web pages; has placed municipal police at the service of the same prosecutor's office, jumping even to the mayors; has persecuted those who beat posters; has summoned 700 mayors to testify, and moreover, without convening the Security Board, tries to intervene the body of Mossos d'Esquadra and put them under the orders of the Ministry of the Interior. This has a name, at least it has the name of twisting democracy itself. Look, the professor of constitutional law, Mercè Barceló, a person of prestige, says: There has been a violation of rights of such magnitude that it would have had more guarantees with a formal declaration of state of emergency. At the same time, with a simple ministerial order, you have nullified financial autonomy, jumping over the Spanish Constitution, jumping over the Statute of Autonomy and have frozen even the bank accounts of the Generalitat de Catalunya using rules - check - designed for drug traffickers. All this culminated in the return to the Kingdom of Spain of the figure of the political prisoners: fourteen people were arrested, some of them assaulted on the highway, even some arrested, with their young children next door, by seven or eight civilian guards. No one had ever seen people who had to appear before the judge handcuffed. This has never been seen before. There were important charges from the Generalitat that had to declare handcuffed to the judge. This wasn't a lawsuit, it was a demonstration of strength. In fact, these people would still be detained and would have taken them to Madrid, surely, if 40,000 people - perhaps more - had not gone out on the street to denounce this violation of civil rights, this violation of constitutional rights. It was the citizenry mobilized on the street that freed these people. What's more, you wanted to, you still want to cause trouble, yes. How is it understood if not so much national police presence at the CUP headquarters desperately looking for any conatus of violence? This is what they intended. Yes, you wanted violence because with violence all your actions were already justified. Unfortunately, you have not understood the nature of what is happening in Catalonia. What happens in Catalonia is a great Gandhian movement, hundreds of thousands of people fighting for their rights. All this combined with the democratic parliamentary action of a legitimate majority plus a legitimate Government. A movement of this nature - without any doubt - cannot be fought by force. Conversely, this movement may feed on the force exerted against it. But you don't know this. You need to show the power of the State: to them, you are Catalans! This is their mentality: to them, they are Catalans! Hence the great police deployment. A policeman, in a statement that was intercepted, said: "Here are policemen to take down Beirut. Well, if this is your vocation, if this is your will, you have to know three things. First of all, the violence you seek to exert against a large part of the people of Catalonia is not going to have any deterrent effect. It's not going to cause any deterrent effects. Secondly, it delegates you and those political forces such as the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and Citizens who support you. Finally, do you know what happens too? All this undoubtedly increases the majority will of the people of Catalonia to exercise the right to decide. So, in conclusion, stay with the violence that we, the defenceless people, will remain with the ballot box and with the civic and peaceful will to vote on 1 October. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u179	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Government, I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u180	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tardà, two years ago I told him in this very rostrum: prou, enough is enough; let us live in coexistence, harmony and freedom between all the Catalans and the rest of the Spanish. Two years later, unfortunately, you continue to deepen further in the division and in the confrontation between Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards. In the very title of his interpellation is his purpose, that of following in this division and in the confrontation of each and every Catalan. He will not find us in the confrontation, he will not find us in the division, but he will find us in the defense of harmony, coexistence and peace among each and every Catalan, among our brothers, among our parents, among our children, among our friends and among all those we do not even know today. Because Spain is a great democracy, one of the most advanced in the world. Our democracy is the story of overcoming everyone, it is a story, of course, of lights and shadows, it is a story, of course, of difficulties and challenges, but a story of shared success, and when we have demonstrated it most it has been in complex moments. We are proud to have undertaken this modern and advanced democracy together, and we have achieved it with the different generations, but above all we have achieved it with the different ideologies of left, center, right, liberal, humanist Christians, social democrats, communists, nationalists and independenceists, because this is the great greatness of our democracy, which never excludes anyone. This great success is what unites us all and each of the Catalans and, of course, the Spanish, but what unites us all and each of the Catalans today, to the 7.5 million Catalans, is that we want to live together, in harmony and in peace. [[Applauds]] And what guarantees our coexistence? This great democracy. The law, Mr Tardà, is not an imposition, it is a democratic instrument that guarantees our rights and freedoms, those rights so much that they fought and so much longed for our parents and our grandparents and that you have so often commented on me in the corridors and on the plane when we took him to Barcelona. The law, Mr Tardà, equals us from our differences, the law makes us equal to those who, like you, defend independence and those who, like me, defend coexistence and freedom in Catalonia. The law protects us all from the arbitrariness, hatred, discrimination, chaos, nonsense and totalitarianism of some, and the law obliges us so that no one can run over anyone who thinks differently. Mr Tardà, of course it is democratic normality and democratic wealth that there are differences of opinion and proposals in a constantly growing heterogeneous democracy. In a democracy one can disagree, debate, dialogue, improve and modify laws, but what defines a democracy is that no one can jump the law with impunity. I say more, that no one believes that by yelling more is more democrat, that no one thinks that by squealing visca democracy is more democrat, that no one thinks that by being independent is above the law. The true democrat is the one who does not violate and the one who respects the law and coexistence, the one who respects the one who thinks differently, because outside the law we would only have hatred, anarchy, totalitarianism, chaos and the loss of these rights and freedoms. [[Applauds]] As deep Catalan as I am I tell you - and you know it - that the best way to defend Catalonia is to defend democracy. There is no other way; defending democracy is how we best defend Catalonia. These forty years of democracy are the greatest political, economic, social and cultural success we have ever experienced in Catalonia and the rest of Spain. You, Mr Mas, Puigdemont, Junqueras, Forcadell, live in constant failure and want all of Catalonia and Spain to fail with you. You live in the ridiculous capital and want Catalonia and Spain to be the ridiculous one in the world. You want to live in victimism, hatred, martyrization and castration by sacrificing all Catalans and not admitting error. Correcting is wise, we say this in Catalonia every day, but we will not let them commit this abuse of democracy, we will not leave them because the Catalans do not live in frustration, nor in ridicule, nor in victimization, nor in hatred. Catalonia has always been a noble land, proud of itself, admired in the rest of Spain for its political, economic, social and cultural entrepreneurship, and we defend this Catalonia. I ask you not to speak any more on behalf of all Catalans, I ask you not to speak any more on my behalf. Catalonia is each and every one of the seven and a half million Catalans, that we do not look at where we come from but where we go, that we do not look at what language we speak but in defending our ideas with respect, and we have always done so from the sign and reason, from the coexistence, plurality and nobility that has always characterized us to the people of Catalonia. I'm also going to tell you three things. We are many who, like deep Catalans, feel sadness and pain, because they have divided and confronted us. You only make lists defining Catalans first and Catalans second; good and bad; nationalists and botiflers - traitors; Catalans and subjects. Mr Turull dealt three weeks ago with subjects who we do not defend an illegal referendum. They are putting Catalans against the wall to be pointed with the finger not to follow their sectarian postulates in breach of the law. You're the ones who took us here. It is you who have been kneeling before the CUP, the anti-system since 2012. Who would have imagined that the old CiU and Esquerra Republicana would kneel before the anti-systems? You can never build a democratic system with those who enter the system just to destroy it, and they did so to cover up all their shames, all their mismanagement, to abandon the Catalans to the fate of the economic crisis, and they did so because they were cowards to undertake the necessary reforms and end nationalist corruption in Catalonia and the disgovernment and crisis. [[Applauds]] Tell the truth why they did it. They have made us move from the best stage of prosperity, consensus and shared challenges to a stage of confrontation and a break in our framework of coexistence. The second thing I'm going to tell you is that we feel deep shame - and also a lot of Catalan independenceists feel deep shame - for the biggest blow you've done to Catalonia, to all Catalans, to democracy, on the 6th and 7th of September in the Parliament of Catalonia. You have crossed the red line to place yourself in illegality and place all of Catalonia outside of democracy. They want to drag us all Catalans out of democracy. You are filled with words of democracy. Is it perhaps for you democracy to liquidate our framework of coexistence in just forty-eight hours by nullifying the Constitution, nullifying the status of autonomy? Is it democracy for you to nullify the rights of Members in the opposition in Parliament? Is it perhaps democracy for you to disobey the Secretary General of Parliament, all the Catalan lawyers and institutions such as the Council of State Guarantees? I would remind you that in order to change the Statute of Catalonia it would be necessary today to adopt it with the votes of ninety Members, and you, in order to charge yourself with democracy and liquidate our coexistence in Catalonia, have only used the votes of seventy-two Members. Don't talk to me about majorities and don't compare with other countries in the world. You manage the majority as you wish. [[Applauds]] I will remind you, because you were here like me, that on 8 April 2014 three parliamentarians from the Catalan Parliament came to defend the legitimate positions of independence. President Mas was sitting in the rostrum; he did not dare to go up to this rostrum to defend his independence project. They came to ask for the transfer of competence to make a referendum of self-determination from Catalonia, and in this House, which is really where national sovereignty falls, where the forty-seven million Spaniards are represented - because one million or two million Catalans cannot decide on forty-seven million Spaniards - 350 deputies 299 said no; not because the law does not allow us to make a referendum of self-determination. Among these 299 Members there were 47 Catalan Members, including you and I, also elected by the Catalan people, from the province of Barcelona. You present yourself in the province of Barcelona, but so do I. I am also chosen by Catalans from the province of Barcelona, as you are. Therefore, of those 47 Catalan Members, 25 Catalan Members elected by the Catalan people, we said no. And since you do not accept a non-democratic, you take the shortcut of the law and you go to disobedience and you go outside the law. [[Applauds]] You use the law when it suits you, but when you no longer like it, you skip it and therefore want to drag us all into humiliation. For you democracy is to organize squabbles and demonstrations to pressure justice itself, using nothing more and nothing less than the Speaker of the Parliament, who seems to still be the President of the ANC. We do condemn violence, insult and threat, come from wherever it comes from. If you listened to me yesterday in RAC1 I said so, because within democracy there is no violence. I would like to listen to you more often by condemning all the attacks, insults and threats we have received from those Catalans we do not think like you. For you democracy is to point out those mayors and the State Security Forces and Corpses who respect our framework of coexistence and who comply with the law. And the most denigrating thing I've ever seen as a mother is that you use our underage children to promote your Denigrating Rupturist project. [[Applauds]] But they have not had enough, they have humiliated and continue to humiliate all Catalans. While you are here at the Congress of Deputies, the Parliament of Catalonia is closed. Say it out loud: they've closed the Parliament. This is how you defend democracy by closing the Parliament of Catalonia. Today the Catalan Members cannot sit in their seats because it is closed with pany i clau the Parliament, with lock and key This is the democracy that you defend. [[Applauds]] I'm done. This week, forty years of the re-establishment of the Generalitat de Cataluña are celebrated. If that was possible, it was, in part, thanks to a Catalanist like Josep Tarradellas, who was able to dialogue, agree and agree for the good of all Catalans and Spain. You are the ones who have intervened in Parliament, you have charged yourself with the self-government and autonomy of Catalonia. Therefore, we ask you to return the honorability to Parliament, an institution to which we have so much respect and affection for Catalans and which you have despised. The 6th and 7th of September will be marked in our hearts as the days that you silenced each and every Catalan. And I end up saying a third thing. We are not going to be silent, I insist, we are not going to be silent, because our silence would be responsible for their abuses against democracy and against our rights and freedoms. The Government of Spain will therefore not resign from its obligations to defend democracy, law, coexistence, harmony and peace in Catalonia and the rest of Spain. Mr. Tardà, I finish with a phrase by Josep Tarradellas: Catalonia is too small to despise any of your children and too big to let us all. We are waiting for you in the legal framework of democracy to talk about everything. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u181	Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, the world knows that Catalonia is a peaceful, defenceless country with only one instrument, the most important: the democratic will of its citizens, whether or not it is independent. Two, which more than three million Catalans apparently want to vote. That's what the polls confirm. You want to stop it even by force. Three, a democratic behavior would be to win the heart, yes, to win the heart and will of these citizens and give them arguments to stay. And four, in short, you should seek your consent, as the British did with regard to the Scots. Before Sunday, know that of the millions of Catalans some - perhaps not a few - have difficulty in being able to vote. Right. Know that the answer will be massive and follow Gandhi's non-violent example. Kilometric glues from 9:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. in which citizens will peacefully exercise their freedom to vote. And when you put more effort into preventing it, the more undemocratic your action will be. Besides, you know we're not alone. We are not alone; democratic Spain is raised from Gijón to Cadiz, passing through Madrid; democratic Spain that goes out to defend democracy because they know, know and participate with us that our struggle is also their struggle. We are therefore grateful from this rostrum for all the expressions of solidarity that we have received from the various peoples of the present Spanish State. Your speech - said with all respect and you know it; on a personal level you and I have friendship and we will keep it -, politically, I think it is ancient. It is ancient and inevitably seen as an obligation to appeal to violence. You repeat the same speech of the unity of Spain, a conception seen under a Legionary concept of the same Spain; the same as José Millán-Astray, the Manco coup general, who Unamuno accused of wanting to create a Spain in his image, that is, mutilated. [[A Member of Parliament: How modern you are!]] If Unamuno, in the same speech, said 'you will win but you will not convince'; today I say to you, in this Chamber, that on October 1 they will neither overcome nor convince. Finally, you have used the cowardly adjective. I think we should moderate ourselves a little and not use it. But since you have used it, I welcome the precedent. I believe that politically those who are cowards are you, very cowards; because if you believe so much in your Spain, in your modern and democratic Spain, if this Spain is so fantastic, you should have many arguments to be able to convince us in a referendum. Because there is no democracy, in fact, there is no democratic rule of law without the consent of the citizens. But you, in the background, what you have is fear; you are afraid of not having enough arguments as the British did about the Scots. The Republic will win, we are convinced that it will win. What is not fair is that free men and women of the twenty-first century have to suffer. There's no right. There is no right to make men and women, citizens of Catalonia, free men and free women who want to express and exercise their democratic right to decide. In the end, democracy always ends up winning. Democracy is unbeatable, but we will never forgive them for making us suffer. There's no right. There is no right to make Catalan citizens suffer, whether or not they are independent. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u183	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u184	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tardà, defending democracy is about being modern. This is being modern, defending democracy. And the brave thing in Catalonia is also to defend democracy, because you put a lot of pressure, a lot of threat and a lot of finger. They point too much at us with the finger that we think different from you. Look, from October 2nd we have a great opportunity to get out of the rage and disobedience and to return to the seny and the rao and to the law and to dialogue and coexistence. But I will tell you one thing, to dance a tango two are needed, and in the Government of Spain we have been dancing the tango since 1978, defending democracy and defending Catalonia and Spain. But it seems to me that you, apart from not wanting to dance the tango, want to turn off the music, and we are not going to allow you to turn off the music of this great democracy and this great nation that is Spain. [[Applauds]] And I'm going to show him that we're dancing tango and that we're in dialogue. On September 25, 2012, President Mas went to Moncloa to see President Rajoy and said to him: A fiscal pact or autonomous elections. And President Rajoy said to him: My priority now is that Spain is not rescued, to get Spain out of the crisis, to create jobs and economic growth. I ask you, with the same responsibility, to do the same in Catalonia. And since he was an irresponsible one, he took us where we are today. President Rajoy told President Mas: The day the economy gets better, I promise to talk about autonomous financing. Beginning of this legislature, Gener, January 2017, Conference of Autonomous Presidents with President Rajoy in the Senate. Who didn't come? Who doesn't want to dance the tango? President Puigdemont, so don't tell me about this, because for you really the referendum is an excuse. You want to break Spain, this is the pure truth. We offered you this April that President Puigdemont would come to present his independence project, because he has the right to present it to the Chambers and the Courts. You know what he said? No, I don't. Do you know why he said no? Because he said if there was debate and there was a vote, he wouldn't come. Therefore, it is you who are not in the dialogue. And I'll tell you more. Last week, on the initiative of the Socialist Party, we approved the creation of the Commission for the Evaluation and Modernisation of the Autonomous State and the People's Party, because we believe in this model and in this democracy. This Commission is a good starting point for healing wounds, looking to the future and dialogue within the legal framework. Those who are afraid of democracy are you; you do not come here to defend your political projects. Really participate in the constructive dialogue. In Spain there is only one legal framework, there are not two different legal realities, the Spanish and the Catalan; this is a fallacy, a lie that you repeat every day a thousand times. This is not a struggle of legitimacy between two different parliaments, but there is simply only one common legal order in Spain that has to be fulfilled, and here you can come whenever you want, you have the open doors to come and defend your political projects. As I have said before, we in the Government of Spain are not going to resign from our duties. We are going to defend democracy, law and coexistence and we are not going to leave any Catalan alone; it is not going to leave us - I include myself, because I am also Catalan - alone any Catalan; it is not going to leave us alone to the fate of those who want to take us out of democracy. The democratic thing between human beings is to speak and the totalitarian thing is to impose. The democratic thing is that the result of a democratic vote is deliberated, talked, agreed, legislated in one parliament, and the totalitarian thing is that with one vote you stand up as a winner to exclude the other. The democratic thing is to love Catalonia, to love your land, your language, your culture and your history; the totalitarian thing is that we all have to speak the same language, that they manipulate our history and that they distort the truth by confronting families. The democratic thing is that politicians know and respect the law and the totalitarian thing is that some politicians use it at their will. The democratic thing is that we are all equal and that we are all under judicial guardianship and totalitarian is to consider justice a repression. In this government we are in the democratic sphere, in the sincere dialogue within the legal framework, so we are opening up a future that is to be written, where each and every one of us here, and each and every one of the Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards have a great responsibility. A democracy is a permanent dialogue, because the best antidote against confrontation is dialogue within democracy, and never in the Government of Spain will we abandon the capacity to understand ourselves, from generosity but of course also from ideological discrepancy. You have been disqualified, you have been disqualified by the CUP; it was the CUP who told President Mas to stop being President, it was the CUP who told President Puigdemont: take us to independence in eighteen months and, when you have taken us to independence, you leave. Therefore, you have been disabled, so you are living in frustration. From October 2 a great opportunity is born for each and every Catalan, where we will have the opportunity to end confrontation, division and frustration; where I sincerely believe that new politicians have to emerge in independence, a new relief of politicians who truly believe in sincere dialogue, who want to dance the tango within the legal framework, who believe in the construction of bridges. This is what we really need, a generation that looks at the future and does not delve into divisions. The Government of Spain, in the face of its breakdown and division, will always be building bridges. Faced with misrepresentation and manipulation, the Spanish Government will always be with the truth and with the word. In the face of hatred and exclusions, the Spanish Government will defend freedom from which it thinks differently. In the face of illegality, the Government of Spain will be with the law that we have all given ourselves. Mr. Tardà, the sea, as more tea, more whining, and you're whining. But in the sea, after the storm calms down. And we're in calm. And from calm it's time to look at the future, to look forward, because the end of our history is still to be written, and we must write it together and with the word. Here we await you, together and with the word, calmly, with reason and seny I am convinced that we can continue to build this great nation and this great democracy that is Spain. Visca Catalunya and visca Espanya. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-09-27-CD170927.u185	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was one and thirty-five minutes in the afternoon.
