ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u1	The meeting was called to order. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Fr. Francisco Martín Bernabé Pérez, I ask Mrs. María Dolores Bolarín Sánchez if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u2	Yeah, I swear. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u3	In place of Don Julián López Milla, I ask Don Herick Manuel Campos Arteseros if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u4	Yes, I promise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u5	Dona María Dolores Bolarín Sánchez and Don Herick Manuel Campos Arteseros have acquired full status as MPs. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u6	We begin with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Joint Parliamentary Group for the legal redress of the victims of Francoism by declaring null and void the courts constituted during the Civil War and Francoism, as well as their rulings. Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor for the presentation of the initiative. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to remain silent and take your seats. Mr. Domènech, I'm still waiting for you to sit down. Mr Xuclà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, next month, December, ten years after the adoption of the Law on Legal Reparation for the Victims of Franchise through the declaration of nullity and illegitimacy of the courts, the so-called Historical Memory Law, will be fulfilled. Ten years later, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to update and improve the so-called Historical Memory Law. Various proposals have been put forward in recent years by the PSOE recently, by Uniti Podemos, by Esquerra Republicana, or a law that is already in process and in the eternal period, I believe, of extending the deadline of amendments by the Basque Nationalist Party when it proposed a revision of the Law on Official Secrets, which I also believe has to do with the recovery in part of the truth and historical memory. Today, from the Democratic Party, from the PDECAT, we raise a point of view, we ask them to move from the political proposal to the legal reform, because in this legislature there is little legal reform and much political proposal, and I sincerely believe that in this Chamber there is a plural parliamentary majority to deal with different aspects of reform and updating of the Historical Memory Act. It is necessary to review aspects of the Historical Memory Law concerning the economic reparation of the victims of Francoist repression and during Francoism; it is necessary to re-examine whether those articles of the Historical Memory Law referring to the withdrawal of Francoist symbolism from public spaces were effective; it is certain that we must return to the article clearly referring to the future of the Valley of the Falles, which I would like to remind you that ten years ago - who spoke to them was one of the speakers of that law - was agreed with the People's Party, but ten years later there have been proposals at least from the Socialist Group and also from the Republican Left on the Valley of the Falles; and recently, with the signature of several parliamentary groups, there has also been a proposal for a law to annul the Amnesty Law forty years after its adoption. This is enough material to deal with a reform of the Historical Memory Act seeking and articulating sufficient parliamentary majority so that the elements I have listed to you and the element I am going to describe to you now can garner the support of this parliamentary majority. What is the initial object of this proposed law, undoubtedly open to amendments, thereby opening up the material perimeter of the proposal? Moving from what section 3 of the Historical Memory Act states as the illegitimacy of judgments and courts during the Civil War and Francoism to a wording that clearly faces the radical and full declaration of nullity of these judgments. It is true - to this I will refer later - that if these sentences are null it is because the courts were illegitimate and the result of a coup d'état. Ladies and gentlemen, at the time we had a great debate on how to articulate Article 3 of the Historical Memory Act, and I recall discussions with the rapporteurs, especially from the Socialist Group, who basically put forward the formula of the declaration of the illegitimacy of the courts so that victims or relatives of victims would appeal to the competent courts to seek the definitive declaration of the nullity of sentences by the judiciary. This involved two powers, the Legislature, which declared illegitimacy, and the Judiciary, which declared nullity. The proposal in article 3 had its reason for being based on the theory of law, based precisely on the solution that after the Second World War and the Nuremberg trials was given to confront the declaration of illegitimacy of the acts of the Nazi regime based on the theory of the best philosopher of law of the twentieth century, Kelsen. But, ladies and gentlemen, what we agreed as a mechanism to find the final nullity of sentences handed down during the Civil War and Francoism by illegitimate courts did not happen, and some Member in the House said to me: This is not going to work. In life in general and in parliamentary and legislative life in particular, it is good to recognize what might have worked and has not done so. It did not work because this declaration of illegitimacy, which had to be accompanied by a declaration of nullity by the courts, was simply stopped by a decree of the Supreme Court Chamber of Prosecutors which, on the basis of this declaration of illegitimacy, declared that it derived from the radically nullity of the sentences. But family members could not have a certificate of nullity of these sentences. Mr Tardà recalled in the 2007 paper that it was better for Parliament to declare the nullity of judgments as a result of the illegitimacy and nullity and illegality of these courts. Mr Tardà pointed out to us the formula adopted in the 1990s by the German Parliament to deal also with the nullity of the sentences of the Nazi regime. Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of ten years of experience, I have to tell you that I believe that in this House there is a parliamentary majority to deal with the reform of Article 3 of the Historical Memory Act, I hope also to deal with other aspects by consensus of the Historical Memory Act and to deal definitively with the nullity of these judgments. The text we propose, article 3 of our proposal for a law of the Democratic Party, speaks of illegitimacy and nullity: in 3.2, of the courts, and in 3.3, of the judgments. In parallel to the entry into the register of our proposal for a law, which I hope this afternoon can count on the broad majority support of this House, the Law 11/2017 on legal redress for the victims of Francoism was passed on 4 July in the Parliament of Catalonia. I believe that this law, ladies and gentlemen, provides an element that should be taken into consideration and that this parliamentary procedure should be incorporated into Article 3, as we have been able to comment and discuss with some of you. The Catalan law contains a single article, which declares 'illegal the courts... - I am reading you this single article -. As a result, the nullity of all judgements and resolutions of the cases investigated and the Councils of War, handed down by the Franco regime for political reasons in Catalonia, is deduced.' Well, ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a law of the Parliament of Catalonia was passed with the votes of the People's Party and Citizens' Party. This afternoon I invite the majority group and the Citizens' Group to practice coherence, that is, what they voted in favour of in the Parliament of Catalonia and which seemed to them to be an update to face a nullity and, thus, the reparation of the victims of Francoism during the Civil War and during the forty years of Francoism also voted favorably this afternoon, through an instrument that, as I said, is simply - but very relevant - a consideration of a bill. Why do I tell them it's relevant? Because after a year and a few months of parliamentary term, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative life of this Parliament is modest and because some good laws that have been taken into consideration - such as the reform of the Act on Official Secrets proposed at the time by the Basque Group - have not just been dealt with in the presentation and Commission procedure by the deadline for amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party offers this bill as an update and revision of the Historical Memory Act adopted in December 2007. Our approach is clear with regard to Article 3 on the need to recognise what was not operational, which is the radical declaration of nullity of the sentences handed down by the Franco regime. Why? Because the courts were illegal. And why were they illegal? Because they were the result of a coup d'état against the current legal regime, the Republic. This bill is also an opportunity to take back these initiatives which I have listed at the beginning of my speech by different groups, as I hope they can all be dealt with in Parliament and approved. I insist, different have been the initiatives and this bill can be an update of the Historical Memory Act. Common sense - because sometimes in politics common sense exists - invites me to think that what was voted in favour of in the Parliament of Catalonia by the PP and Citizens also today will be able to add a large majority, being open, as we are, to the amendments, which are ultimately making a law happen. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u8	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in the position-setting round by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u9	Thank you very much, President. The PDECAT proposes that we amend the Historical Memory Act to declare not only the illegitimacy of the Francoist courts and the unfairness of their convictions for ideological, political or religious reasons, but also to declare the nullity of these courts and their convictions and sanctions. This amendment of the so-called Historical Memory Law is justified in the full reparation, recognition and dignity of those who suffered persecution or violence during the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship. Ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, this claim is not a new issue in this House. The annulment of sentences and decisions of Francoist courts for political, ideological or belief reasons has been pursued for years before the adoption of the Historical Memory Act. Already in 2004 a PNL was adopted in this regard in this House and in the work of the presentation of the Historical Memory Act it was also proposed but without success. Following the adoption of Law 52/2007, initiatives have been put forward in the plenary and in committees of this House, the most recent being that presented in this plenary by the Socialist Parliamentary Group calling for a declaration of the illegitimacy of the courts of repression of Freemasonry and Communism, the court of law and order, the regional courts of political responsibilities and war councils, as well as the convictions and sanctions handed down, which were said to be null and void and unjust and lacking in effectiveness and validity. This parliamentary group of the Basque Nationalist Party supported this initiative by considering it, and we said so, a step in the right direction, although not the definitive one since it introduced the nullity of the Francoist courts and their resolutions, which was a step forward with regard to the Historical Memory Act, which only spoke of illegitimacy, but which did not change in legal terms and which also did not urge the Government to do so; it was, in our view, and we said so, a declaration without legal consequences for the reprisals during the Civil War and the dictatorship. Also, the current declarations of reparation and recognition, under this law, still do not constitute a legal title for the recognition of State property responsibilities, nor do they give rise to financial reparation or compensation to the victims and their successors. Only this remedy, which we are now talking about, can be achieved by amending the Historical Memory Act in the sense proposed by the initiative of the Democratic Party of Catalonia, as its spokesman has also told us, just as it was done in Germany in its Parliament in 1988, when it passed the law on the annulment of the national socialist unjust trials, which left the sentences handed down by those courts without legal effectiveness. Declaring ope legis the nullity of decisions of franchising courts is only in the hands of the Courts and not of other parliamentary bodies of the State, however well-intentioned their agreements and resolutions are as no court will recognize them. Ladies and gentlemen, to declare by law the nullity of the courts of a repressive nature of the Franco regime and of no law, also of full law, its resolutions and sentences to constitute legal title before the current courts for the purpose of recognition, property responsibilities and economic reparations is, as I said, only within the reach of this House; it is also a moral and civic debt to the victims of the Francoism that is not fully settled today. What we are saying, in no way means - and in this we also want to be clear - that the Historical Memory Act has not served at all or that the normative provisions adopted prior to this Act in support of the victims of Francoism were wet paper, although certainly this Historical Memory Act which I have cited has defects in its compliance that have already been revealed in this House in several sessions, defects such as, for example, the little budgetary support, or the little public support to its office, or the development and implementation of its third additional provision, or the null support for public participation in investigations, exhumations, identifications and worthy burial of victims of the Civil War and Francoism, or that its regulatory development is more limited than the law itself regarding compensation, or the withdrawal of Francoist symbolism. The Historical Memory Act itself also has flaws in its configuration, as in the issue we are now dealing with, of the nullity of the decisions of the Francoist courts and their resolutions. Think, for example, of the regional courts of political responsibility, which were courts responsible for economic repression and which, as we were reminded in some of the Commission's speeches, Mr Xavier Domènech, Spokesman of En Comú Pomero, provoked the greatest transfer of income in the history of Spain since the de-amortization of Mendizábal from the plundering of citizens' property for their political, ideological or religious beliefs. President, I'm finishing up. The full reparation, recognition and dignity of those who suffered persecution or violence because of their beliefs during the Civil War and Francoism demands, without underestimating what has been done so far, to recover a real and effective justice in that which the Historical Memory Act had not sufficiently protected, declaring ope legis, the nullity of the Francoist courts and their resolutions and sentences in order to solve one of the major unresolved problems of the decisions of these illegal courts. We will therefore support the initiative. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u10	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Xuclà, let it be clear, since 2007, the year in which the poorly-called law of memory was passed, all, all the initiatives taken by family members, descendants of Republicans who were shot, for example, or died violently, all, all, have been met with the impossibility of being declared null and void, and the judges have made it clear - but very clear - that they could not annul the sentences since the courts were legal. This is why the Catalan law, to which you have referred, does not speak of illegitimate courts, does not speak of null courts; the courts are not null, are legal or illegal, legitimate or illegitimate, but we cannot speak of null courts. I understand that sentences are, in any case, null and void. But let's get to the problem. The judges have made it clear that the sentences cannot be quashed to the extent that the courts were legal, which is why - I say - the Catalan law is very short, very succinct but very clear, you have said it clearly here too. The Catalan law says that the courts were illegal. And it is true that there is a commitment on the part of the PDECAT, on the part of the comrades of En Comú Pomero, on the part of the Republican Left, who were the driving political forces of the Catalan law, to bring this Catalan law here, since if it was adopted unanimously, even by the People's Party, there is no reason not to believe that here the Catalan law can also be approved and can benefit those citizens who were tried outside the Catalan territory. The surprise is that your proposal speaks of illegitimacy, is anchored in the text, in the law you say you want to modify. Even so, we will vote in favour, but let it be clear, if the parliamentary procedure does not accept the amendment that makes it possible to declare the courts illegal, we will vote that no, because we also have the reason to be able to demonstrate how dozens of people have tried from 2007 to 2017, how the children and grandchildren of the shot, many of them already deceased, have tried with the 2007 law to have the certificate of invalidity issued by the Kingdom of Spain and have failed to do so. The reasons are so clear by the mouth and by the writing of the judges, that they tell us - and I think there are even sentences in that sense - that if the amendment they tabled in their day Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya - as the judges say - and the courts would have become illegal, then we would be in a position to annul the sentence. I think they're falling back into the same mistake. But let us see if we are able to convince the Socialist Party, the People's Party and those political forces that in 2007, for months - a pity that there are no Socialist Members who were rapporteurs of the law - we were debating the need to incorporate the term 'illegality'. Then, the parliamentary majority felt that something that was catastrophic for them could not be assumed: to accept that the courts were illegal. According to them, this opened a huge blow to what has been agreed to call legal certainty. I know that we are facing a very fat problem, it is true, so fat that a citizen who was shot by his father or his mother or his brothers today, in 2017, is denied a certificate of full annulment of the sentence. So we are going to vote in favour so that this initiative can be dealt with, but I say to you that the Republicans and the Catalan Republicans, if the parliamentary procedure does not assume the illegality of the courts, as we know that no annulment is going to be achieved, what we will not do is at least participate in this great fraud that has been committed over the last few years and that has caused thousands of people to cry - it has made them cry - who still see how the Administration denies them the recognition of the nullity of the sentences. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u12	Thank you very much. Mr Villegas Pérez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u13	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed again dealing with an issue that we have already discussed several times in the Commission and also in plenary in this still short parliamentary term and which has been discussed, as Members recalled, also in previous parliamentary term since 2007. Now we discuss it again. The truth - as I said when we talked about the GNP presented by the Socialist Group - is that looking back is not the priority of our group, the priority of our group is to look to the future and, above all, we cannot avoid the circumstances that our country is experiencing, the circumstances of a serious economic crisis, of a serious institutional crisis and of a territorial crisis caused, why not say, by two of the previous speakers, participants in this situation of attempt to break up Spain: Esquerra Republicana and Convergence or PDeCAT or Junts pel Yes or Junts pel as the proponents' party is now called. [[Applauds]] In this crisis situation our priority is to look to the future, focus on the future and present the Spanish proposals that can help to envision in a new common Spanish project. But even if that is not our priority and being in the situation in which we are, we are being brought to debate again, to talk about that black stage that Spain experienced, that coup d'état against the legitimate regime of the Republic, that tremendous war between brothers and that long dictatorship, that night of forty years of fascist dictatorship that the country had to live and that had to suffer all the Spaniards. But it must also be remembered that after that black period, that war, that fascist dictatorship, that repression, the Spaniards made a transition, a transition in difficult times, in a complicated situation, a transition in which there was a noise of sands but also a noise of bombs and shots to the neck, in which sands were heard in the barracks but there was also blood on the streets of our country. Therefore, a transition in complicated times, but in many exemplary aspects, although not in all since surely something remained in the dark and, indeed, in 2007 there was a legislative initiative of the Socialist Party aimed at the recognition, dignification and reparation of the victims of the Franco dictatorship, and which came to remedy some of the elements that were not well closed at the time of the transition. That law already declared the illegitimacy of the Francoist courts and jurors, which were used as a repressive weapon against dissidents, and therefore also the illegitimity of their rulings. It has been said by one of the proponents that it has been ten years since the adoption of this law and that it must now be updated, but I believe that it has become clear from some other speeches - they review the sitting papers of those times - that it is not a question of revising a law, a rule that has become old, but of a debate that already existed at the time of the adoption of this rule, that at that time it had a majority and that it has been brought back at different times during successive sessions. What is intended is to add to the illegitimacy of the courts the word 'nullity', the nullity of the decisions that were made. The truth is that we have doubts about the amendment, whether adding 'nullity' is going to have practical effects that can actually lead to greater dignity of the victims, which can include that declaration of nullity. We are talking here about some courts, those set out in article 3 of the proposed law and approved at the request of the Socialist Party in 2007, but they were also legal, Mr Tardà, the Dispute-Administrative Courts that ruled on those expropriations that the rapporteur told us about in the Commission, those expropriations that the Franco regime carried out against certain victims. Are criminal courts legitimate? Are civil court decisions legal or not? How far does that legal uncertainty go? That is why I say that we have doubts as to the effectiveness and insecurity that such a declaration of nullity could cause. In any case, the debate is good and we are not going to oppose the debate on this proposal, but we would like to make two appeals. One, to consensus. Let us seek, if in the end this proposal of law is taken into account, broad consensus; let us not use the past as a weapon to wear down the political adversary. Let us seek consensus, that issues as sensitive as those we are dealing with can be pursued with a broad consensus. And the second appeal, the second recommendation, in line with what I said at the beginning, is that, please, let us look to the future. It is good that from time to time we look to the past, it is good that when a party has difficulties with the present, it does not know how to handle the present, it goes very far into the future, to a future impossible to realize - as happens to the gentlemen of Convergence or Esquerra - or it wants to go back to the past, but above all let us set the goal in the future. Let's set the goal of creating a common project, Spanish, exciting, renewed, revitalized, in which most Spanish citizens feel happy. That is the objective of our party and that is why we will continue to fight. Thank you very much, Members. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u14	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, Mr Domènech Sampere has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. When the Historical Memory Act was passed in 2007, there was a survey commissioned by the Centre for Sociological Research that asked about that Act and which yielded surprising results in relation to many things that had not been approved in that Act because it was considered that society was not mature to assume them. For example, 83 per cent of the population stated that the search for and recovery of victims in the pits of shame should be directly the responsibility of the State, but this was not the case. It was also asked in that CIS survey whether it was believed that the sentences of the Francoist and majority law enforcement courts should be quashed, the company also replied that they had to be quashed, but it was also chosen on the contrary. In this case, as in others, we did not opt for what most of the population asked for. Many times when we talk about wounds, sometimes they seem more injured by the published opinion than by society, which is much more mature than some of the political debates we live in. That this was not resolved was serious; it was serious because, to the extent that the courts were declared illegitimate but not null and void, the victims seeking that nullity were double humiliated. They were humiliated because when they came before the courts to seek that nullity they found that those courts refused to do so. They were also humiliated because it was found that these courts were confirming Francoist repression sentences. Therefore, a law that sought to redress the victims in this particular case was their humiliation. This was the case of the family of Miguel Hernández or Puig Antich, but also the case of many families of anonymous reprisals worth as much as these names. To argue that the sentences could not be quashed, the concept of legal certainty was appealed, and that is even more serious. It is as serious as saying that the Franco regime, a ferocious dictatorship like Francoism, was in turn a legal security regime. It is as serious as saying that hundreds of thousands of people who were retaliated by Francoism had legal guarantees in their trials. All this argument was contrary to any concept of reparation and recognition to the victims. [[Applauds]] In fact, the real debate was not that; we all know that. The real debate that was not intended was that the nullity of judgements meant the capacity for reparation in the transfer of assets. As the spokesman for the PNV pointed out, with the Law on Political Responsibilities in Spain there was the most important transfer of income through repression - through repression - since the de-amortization of Mendizábal. That's what led to saying crap like legal certainty, like legal guarantees, like all that. This is particularly serious because the parties in 1998 passed a law by which they were to be repaired in the heritage that had been seized by Francoism. It is very serious to put parties above citizenship. It is very serious and more on this issue. First of all, we support this proposal. We also agree with what the spokesman for the Republican Left has said. We understand that it must proceed by the illegality of the courts and as has been done by Catalan law. This proposal has a very clear background, which is the law approved by the Parliament of Catalonia, a law that, paradoxically - in my country, in my land, it seems that everything is impossible, it seems that there is no possibility of agreement - was approved by both the citizens' congeners in Catalonia and also the representatives of the People's Party in Catalonia. It was a positive vote which now seems to be not going to be given with the same intensity; I hope so, because if they would not be demonstrating pure political opportunism, they would vote different things depending on where they are, they would vote yes to that nullity in Catalonia and they would vote on the contrary in Spain, they would not. This would not be surprising, because basically you have a war-civilist spirit that comes out of you at every moment, as when you tell your political opponents that you are going to end up as Lluís Companies. Shame; absolutely shame. [[Applauds]] Let us say yes to the proposal, above all because we owe it to all - all - the victims who suffered repression, to all those who fought for a legally constituted order defending the Second Republic, who led an unmatched ethical resistance in a brutal dictatorship during the 1940s and 1950s, who learned to challenge as no one in the sixties and who rebuilt the democratic reason of this country. That is why we are voting for those who, faced with one of the fiercest dictatorships of the 20th century, one of the fiercest dictatorships of the 20th century in Europe - it will never be repeated a little - have bequeathed to us something that has no shape or colour, which cannot be taken but which is absolutely essential for us: the dignity of resistance, the dignity of saying that even under the worst conditions we can fight. These people represent us. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u16	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u17	First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased to find in the House the Members of the PDECAT and the Republican Left, that we are present here, that we can discuss and that for a long time we can put forward proposals and discuss all here together on policy. That's good news for all of us. [[Applauds]] Next thing I know, Mr. Domènech has opened my eyes. I understand your political position. The political position is determined by the surveys. One thing is good if polls say you have majority support. The truth is, I think we come here to defend our political positions, sometimes minority, to convince the adversary that they are good. If we had always listened to what the polls say, the abortion law would not have been passed here because when it was passed by the socialist government in 1982 the polls were against making an abortion law in Spain. [[Applauds]] That said, I'm on the subject. Next month, ten years have passed since the passing of the Historical Memory Act. After all this time you can make a weighted assessment of the effects this law has had on our society. Above all, today we already know what we need to reform a law like this to improve it, in which the PSOE has been working and in that sense we will present a legislative initiative. Reforms are much more effective when they are sufficiently prepared to carry them out and the society in which you live appreciates it; otherwise, they often lead to frustration and misunderstanding from the citizens who have given us their trust. Those who promoted and made possible the Historical Memory Law with a socialist government, that of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, we are very proud to have contributed to the recognition and recovery of the rights of those who suffered persecution and violence during the Civil War and the dictatorship. We also have an obligation to move forward on that task, if possible. And we must also denounce the lack of resources with which the People's Party has wanted to deactivate the Historical Memory Act in recent years in an attempt to nullify its effects. It is a great irresponsibility to presume not to comply with the law, as Mariano Rajoy said a few months ago: The budget allocation of the Historical Memory Act in the five budgets of my Government has been zero, it was zero euros every year. That's a big irresponsibility. Governments are law enforcement; from the legitimacy that gives you law enforcement you can claim from others who also comply. He has been the PP - again the PP - in charge of bringing back Spanish society, as in so many other matters of great social importance. And it is the Socialist Group - again of the Socialist Group - that last month promoted a non-legislative proposal to broaden the horizon of this one and to advance in the defense of the historical memory, and that today thanks that initiative to the PDECAT. We believe, with the pride that it brings us to have been pioneers in the social conquests and civil liberties in Spain and Catalonia, including the dignification of the victims of persecution or violence during the war and dictatorship, that it is necessary to go a step further, as we already proposed last September through an initiative of the deputy Meritxell Batet. Socialists are going to vote in favour of dealing with this bill because we believe that the Historical Memory Act has not had enough to give a full response to the purpose for which it was adopted. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will always work for a future in peace and coexistence, without resentment but without forgetfulness. It is my group's duty to work from democracy, which was so hard to consolidate after a civil war and an illegitimate, unjust dictatorship, and whose courts we also consider null and void. The will of the socialists is to advance in the matter of historical memory and to close the wounds that our past has failed to heal. We're here to get deals. We will not surrender in the search for an agreement. A while ago a Member of the Republican Left told a Socialist Member that we could never reach an agreement because you - said the Member of the Republican Left - want to close the wounds, while we want to salt the wounds. They do not realize that this is not a great play where citizens do not suffer the consequences of our disagreements. The historical memory, the consciousness that our society has about its past must, without any doubt, seek justice, but must also serve to overcome old hatreds and resentments. It is not a question of imposing my reason, but of agreeing on a common framework of coexistence for our future that does not ignore or disregard our past. It will only be from the agreement between different how we can overcome our disputes. It is ultimately a question of putting aside ideological differences and promoting consensus and overcoming the blackest chapter of our recent history through reparation, of course, but also through dialogue, forgiveness and recognition of facts, strengthening among all a democracy for which many and many fought and on too many occasions offered their lives; a struggle to which we must admire, respect and justice and with which it should be out of place to frivolize, by the way. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u18	Mr Martínez Vázquez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The proposal for a law that Mr Xuclà has submitted today for consideration by the plenary is a proposal for a law of a minimum content, limited to an article and two final provisions. Well, as the spokesman explained in the rostrum, this article seeks to amend article 3 of Law 52/2007 of the Historical Memory Act with the sole purpose of introducing the term 'nullity' added to the term 'illegitimacy'. Thus, a precept which, since 2007, already declares the illegitimacy of the courts, jurors and any other criminal or administrative organs of the Civil War would also declare the nullity of such judicial or administrative organs. I believe that it has been very much believed in the speeches that preceded me that the initiative we are debating today is not new; rather, on the contrary. In this same legislature, just over a year, we have already debated and voted in plenary on this same issue and we have also done so in the Constitutional Commission with initiatives very similar to what is being discussed today. This afternoon the PDECAT again uses the tunnel of time, re-enacts in this House a debate on the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship, and does so by proposing a reform of the Historical Memory Law which is technically very deficient. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not seek in this parliamentary group lukewarmness in the condemnation of those sinister courts and their unjust resolutions. We are fully aware of the dark stages of our history - by the way, of all the dark stages of our history - and we are consistent with that position. What does not have any coherence is what Mr Zaragoza has defended after listening to his group colleague Mr Torres Mora in the Constitutional Commission voting against precisely what is being defended in this House today. Our position, critical of the proposal for a law submitted to the plenary, is based on the fact that it generates legal uncertainty and confusion, and that, Mr Domènech, is not nonsense, at least we do not think so. This risk of deep legal uncertainty and confusion has already been revealed in the discussion of the Historical Memory Act itself. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed to declare null and void the administrative and judicial bodies which adopted decisions during the Civil War or Francoism, as an additional qualification to their declaration of illegitimacy. I fully understand what it means for a court to be illegitimate and I think it is the most consistent way of discrediting all its actions and expelling them from the legal system, and that has already been done by the 2007 Act. However, what I do not understand is what it means for a court or administrative body to be void, because nullity is a category of disability - the maximum disability - which is preached of legal acts, judgments, laws, decisions or administrative acts, but cannot be declared nullity of an organ or institution. That is why I believe that this proposal lacks legal rigour and the only thing that brings about it is confusion. Please note, with regard to the first final provision, a mandate to the Government, a mandate to prepare a report within six months on the implementation of the Historical Memory Act. It is a legal precept whose effectiveness is therefore extinguished at six months; it is a precept that after the entry into force of the law, after six months, it no longer has any legal virtuality. Apart from not even saying to whom that report should be given, do you think it is serious to pass laws to order the Government to draw up a report? Do you think that the good legislative technique recommends passing laws that are consummated within six months? Also, the suggestion of this same final provision, the need to establish channels of communication between competent authorities, victims and associations, seems to be unaware that this collaboration with victims and associations exists from the very moment the law was adopted. Normality in relations with the victims of the Civil War and Francoism is a consequence of law enforcement. Thus, the Government has been assisting victims, first, by resolving consultations - since 2011, more than 16,000 -; second, by issuing declarations of reparation and personal recognition - since the enactment of the law, 2436, of which 814 were signed by the current Minister of Justice; updating the so-called grave map, which manages the ministry, where 2457 graves are collected with more than 45,000 identified victims. In other words, the Government is accountable to this House for the fulfilment of its obligations under Law 52/2007. The Minister of Justice did so only a few months ago when he appeared on the Committee on Justice, and for that reason it makes no sense to pass a law requiring the Government to be held accountable or to report within six months. He obviously has to report and will have to continue to report even after that six-month period. Ladies and gentlemen, what Mr Xuclà has brought to the House is not a legislative initiative, it is a text designed to provoke an artificial debate, a debate on a subject that has been dealt with in detail in recent years, which has been debated in this Parliament both in plenary and in the Commission. You intend to pass a law that serves your particular interests in that competition that you keep to see who is able to introduce more disqualifying adjectives when reviewing the past. It is an artificial debate, a forced debate and a debate without adversaries, Mr Xuclà, because no one in this House would defend today those judgments and administrative resolutions issued on political, ideological or religious grounds, absolutely no one. The Historical Memory Act has been in force for ten years, was promoted by the Government in the VIII Legislature, approved by those General Courts and was intended, according to its own preamble, to close still open wounds in the Spanish and to give satisfaction to the citizens who suffered the consequences of the tragedy of the Civil War or the repression of the dictatorship. That purpose of reparation pursued by the law could be understood to be fulfilled ten years later, and that was why his proposal brought confusion and legal uncertainty. Laws are not to provoke debate, but to regulate coexistence with a vocation of permanence and generality. However, what makes me sad is that the group that is proposing this initiative today has refused to commemorate just a few weeks ago the validity of the 1978 Constitution. I remind you of your own words, Mr Xuclà: Let us say this clearly and quickly; nothing to celebrate; let us vote no. The same sadness that causes me that some of the political forces that support this initiative also refuse to participate in the Commission which is set up tomorrow to assess and modernise the autonomous state. Ladies and gentlemen, you are politically mobilized by what happened 80 years ago, but you are paralyzed by what will happen tomorrow. You live obsessed with a distant past faced with the recent past, stubborn in the destruction of the present and indifferent to the construction of the future. You, ladies and gentlemen, are concerned about new laws to annul old sentences; we and most Spaniards are concerned about the new sentences that continue to systematically annul the laws that you promote. That is why, in closing my speech, I would like to remind you of what a ruling of the Constitutional Court has said very recently - I do not know, Mr Domènech, whether it will also seem silly -: When a public authority - judgment of 8 November 2017 - intends to alter the order constituted unilaterally and ignoring the reform procedures expressly provided for by the Constitution, abandons the only path that allows us to reach this point, that of law, with the consequent irreparable damage to the freedom of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, a political formation that speaks a lot about the past and does not want to participate in debates on the future, unfortunately, I think it is a political formation with more past than future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u20	Thank you very much. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, REFORMING LAW 1/2000 OF 7 JANUARY, CIVIL JUDGMENT AND LAW 29/1998 OF 13 JULY, REGULATOR OF THE CONTENTIOUS-ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION, IN THE MATTER OF THE COSTS OF THE PROCESS. [[File number 122/00128]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u21	We continue with the item on the agenda for the consideration of the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, amending Law 1/2000 of 7 January, on Civil Prosecution and Law 29/1998 of 13 July, Regulator of the Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction, on the costs of the proceedings. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Hernanz Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if only a few weeks ago we adopted an initiative in this House, the aim of which was to facilitate the access of persons with disabilities to participation as active subjects in the Administration of Justice, and we did so with the intention of improving and democratising our Administration of Justice, the legislative initiative presented today by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the various groups of the House to ask for their support for the consideration of the matter, affects an aspect which, although entirely different, shares the same spirit: to facilitate access to the Administration of Justice for all citizens as equals. The Socialist Group is now presenting a proposal for a law reforming the Civil Prosecution Act and the Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction Act on procedural costs, the ultimate aim of which is to ensure that persons with fewer economic resources have equal access to the Administration of Justice. And since the issues relating to the administration of justice are often arid and not always easy to understand for an unspecialized spectator in this matter - the issue of procedural costs is not an exception to that rule - they will allow me to try to focus the issue, because despite its apparent technicality or complexity it is a fundamental matter for all citizens of this country or, more precisely, for everyone to have access to the instrument they have to invoke and protect their rights. Basically, this proposal seeks to answer a question: Who should pay the procedural costs? This is not a baladi question, it is a key question in our judicial system. How many times has any citizen of this country felt that any of his rights had been violated or that he was entitled to a claim or reparation for any damage, but before claiming to the courts he thought: I do not do so because I have no money for trials, and he chose to endure a situation he considered unfair before facing the possible expenses of a judicial claim? That is precisely what we intend to resolve with this proposal: the deterrent effect that any judicial costs can have, and do have, for citizens of limited economic resources, which is something that is perfectly defined in a legal aphorism - it is better a bad arrangement than a good judgment - and which, in short, makes the spirit with which a possible judicial procedure is faced different in view of the economic resources available. That is what this proposal for a law is about, which we ask you to consider today for further discussion in detail in the Commission; it goes without saying that economic capacity is not a filter when a citizen comes to the courts to defend his right. In short, we aim to ensure and facilitate access to justice for all citizens, regardless of their economic capacity. At present, the so-called objective maturity criterion, which basically states that the person who loses pays his or her own expenses and those from which he or she has come out victorious, is in force in our legislation in the case of civil jurisdiction in articles 3, 94 et seq. It should also be pointed out that this has not always been the case, since it is from Law 34/1984 on Urgent Reform of the Civil Prosecution Act, when this substantial change is introduced, since until then the judgements usually did not impose costs, except when the courts found that one of the parties had acted with manifest bad faith or fear. We know and understand that, in the mind of the legislator, by introducing this amendment by establishing the criterion of the objective maturity, he was dissuading to initiate unfounded judicial proceedings, but in view of that argument, which is understandable and not reprehensible, we want to counter a reflection that is certainly more in line with the reality and much more with the current reality of our country. People don't fight for fighting, not even for venturing a positive outcome. - These would be a minimum of cases. People argue because they need to do so, to make or destroy a de facto position held by the counterparty that harms or at least believes it. And it is not uncanny to say that very often the initially favourable position de facto, in any conflict, is held by the strongest or most powerful person or entity and that, therefore, the subliminal message that is being launched with the principle of the sentence on costs to the defeated in trial would be that of: do not fight you, because you do not have much money or are not as rich as your opponent, to whom you will have carelessly pay the costs, since as you lose - some lawsuits are won and others are lost - will complicate your life for many years. It is true that the current procedural legislation has wanted to mitigate this possible effect of the principle of objective maturity, establishing that it will not come into play when the court appreciates and thus reason that the case presented serious doubts of fact or law, but it is no less true that there are many cases where there are such doubts of fact or law and very few occasions when the courts make use of this possibility. In short, the cost sentence thus imposed is a threat that in many cases is insurmountable to a person with limited financial resources when resorting to the courts to defend their rights. And, if that is so in civil jurisdiction, in which they face individuals fighting for their private interests, all the more so in the contentious jurisdiction, in which the struggle between the individual and the Administration is more similar to that of David against Goliath, since the Administration can well pay and appeal everything without great doubt and without taking away the dream neither the authority nor the public lawyer. The objective and statistical data is that the Administration is defeated only in one out of four litigations in the first instance and in one out of eight in the second instance, which demonstrates not so much the fear of the appellants as that the network of administrative law and litigation-administrative procedural law turns such claims into a complicated procedural journey in which one can end up starred and of ruined passage. For this reason, we consider it essential to open this debate and introduce new criteria that determine that it is not enough to be defeated in court to have to bear the costs and expenses of others that it has degenerated, but rather to make that sentence effective, we believe that it must also involve recklessness and bad faith. In addition, procedural laws would be given greater consistency with the provisions of article 1902 of the Civil Code when it states that anyone who, by action or omission, causes harm to another by intervening in guilt or negligence is obliged to make reparation for the damage. We do so, ladies and gentlemen, for consistency, but above all because we understand that the constitutional mandate that establishes the right to effective judicial protection obliges us permanently to deepen the improvement of our administration of justice and to work to remove the obstacles that prevent us from actually having equal justice for all. That is why we Socialists today call on all political groups to vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration. Let us work in a paper, ladies and gentlemen, to prevent any citizens of this country from daring to resort to the courts in defence of their rights because they are unable to assume the costs. Let us work, in short, ladies and gentlemen - let us continue to work - to achieve a more equal and better justice for all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u23	The joint parliamentary group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As Mrs Hernanz Costa has pointed out, we are faced with a consideration that addresses the issue of procedural costs in two important laws: the Civil Prosecution Act and the Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction Regulatory Act. In fact, there are different precepts that have not just resolved disputes over the implementation process, which have been taking place over time. This is the case, for example, with the application of the limit of section 394.3 of the Civil Procedure Act in the enforcement process; the case of the costs in execution of the decrees or of the approval orders of the costs assessments; and the case, finally, of the costs in the execution of the monitoring process with its specific derivative in the execution relative to the horizontal property. These are measures to be added to those already adopted by the Government almost three years ago with the adoption of a royal decree-law that eliminated the controversial judicial fees introduced for all natural persons in all jurisdictional orders and courts, which had so far been qualified in legal sectors such as taxation. It should not be noted, in speaking of procedural costs, that last July the Constitutional Court confirmed the unconstitutionality of the 2012 Act and that, a year earlier, it had also considered disproportionate the fees imposed so that legal persons could appeal to the Administration and to appeal and cassation in civil and social jurisdictional orders. Even so, there are still some exits that hinder access to effective judicial guardianship, which is guaranteed by the Spanish Constitution. It is also appropriate to note that the courts have a workload arising from the remedies resulting from the discrepancy in the determination of amounts. In any case, the current system of maturity costs includes adjustments, as some sectors claim, but the task is not going to be easy because there are modifications that could affect the current maturity cost model, which would entail profound changes in the Spanish justice system. This initiative of the Socialist Group proposes the amendment of six articles of the Civil Prosecution Act and one of the Regulatory Law of the Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction. If taken into consideration, something I will support, a legislative path would be opened up to polish and improve the Spanish Administration of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs Ciuró i Buldó also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. From the rostrum I want to show once again all support for our political prisoners and demand their immediate release. With regard to the proposal for a law submitted to us by the Socialist Group, we shall vote in favour of it. We agree that in access to justice the economic question cannot be a barrier and neither can the economic question be a formula for expediting justice and its administration. We therefore agree that the objective maturity criterion may be liable to cause defencelessness when justice is not available because a claim is not clear. On the other hand, we would also like, in the course of amendments - while we are trying to win the elections in order to achieve the independence of Catalonia by democratic means - to propose that all attempts at conciliation prior to the filing of the application be given precedence or consideration by the judge, for the purpose of giving precedence, when there is a judgment, before appointing the burden of costs to the person who has had the good will to attempt such a preliminary conciliation. The criterion of fear and bad faith is a good criterion that can also be in the legal text, in our view, but we also agree that it is not the criterion used by most litigants. As a matter of fact, you have said, you don't normally go to court for pleasure. Therefore, to this criterion of recklessness and bad faith as pre-eminent - which I thought I understood from its proposal of law - we must accompany it with those initiatives that tend to extra-judicial conciliation in order to avoid litigation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u28	Thank you very much, President. It is proposed that we take into consideration a legislative initiative by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which revises the existing criterion of conviction on judicial costs in civil and contentious jurisdictions, and it is also proposed that the principle of maturity be changed to that of recklessness. So far, the cost of the trial - lawyers, prosecutors, experts and witnesses themselves proposed - was governed by the objective principle of expiration, i.e. the part that has been rejected all its claims. It is now proposed to change the subjective principle of recklessness, i.e. the costs are not imposed on the litigant loser who has seen all his claims rejected, unless the judge considers that he has not acted in good faith. In civil law, the objective principle of maturity was introduced in 1984 and was accompanied by a modulation clause when the exceptional circumstances assessed by the judges were given; another expression, in 2000, which also modulated the principle of maturity, which said: when serious doubts were expressed in fact or in law. Now, in this civil jurisdiction, it is proposed to change the principle of maturity to that of treachery, with the exception that the court appreciates that the case presents serious doubts of fact or law, and also with the exception that when the process directly affects a consumer, if the consumer wins in the dispute, the costs will be due, that is, the unsuccessful party without being able to assess, if the case was legally doubtful, the principle that each party pays its own, which governs the rest of the litigants won in this jurisdiction, according to the reform sought. This treatment is exceptionally positive for the litigator as a consumer, perhaps motivated by the intense criticism that this change in criterion on the costs involved, for having benefited the bank in the processes of complaint against it by the abusive soil clauses and the costs of setting up mortgages, and that it would mean that they would not provide these costs with a quantity possibly equal to or greater than the provision by the soil clauses. The question of costs has had and has arguments in favour and against, both for the criterion of maturity and for the subjective of treachery. Thus, the principle of expiration has support in Roman law - a good basis for our right - and, above all, in its principles, while the subjective position of treachery has support also in the Roman legal institutions of Justinian, and in the theory of guilt, which interferes with what is stated in article 1202 of the Civil Code, which reminds us that birth and obligations are also due to the action or omission that cause damage by intervening in guilt or negligence, in the absence of stable criteria for the determination of professional fees and in addition to the principle of effective judicial guardianship. For its part, the arguments against the subjective criterion of treachery focus on favouring litigation through unfounded claims; that of the maturity, otherwise, in which it discourages it. In other words, it discourages filing claims in the face of the fear of being defeated and having to pay the costs of defending the opposite party, especially when, by definition, the dispute is uncertain when the right of a lower court to separate itself in a reasoned and express manner from the higher bodies, including from the doctrine of the Supreme Court itself, is included in the principle of judicial independence, except in cases of judgments in the interest of law, as established by the Constitutional Court in judgement 37/2012. In the area of administrative and contentious jurisdiction, article 139 of the Law on Jurisdiction was amended in 2011, replacing the principle of recklessness or bad faith with that of total maturity, unless serious doubts of fact or law are considered; in partial maturity, each party pays its costs, unless it appreciates bad faith or bad faith, which is very difficult or almost impossible to comply with - it must also be said - because it is very difficult for any judge to appreciate recklessness or bad faith, since the claims in a trial are partially assessed. Here, in the case of this contentious-administrative jurisdictional order, the argument of the criterion of equal treatment to the Administration and to the administered gives way in most opinions, since both parties do not have the same position or in the daily work - administrative law is an exorbitant right to ordinary law - nor in the procedural order - the contentious jurisdiction is a privileged one, also plagued with prerogatives in favour of the Public Administration -. Administrative law, as I said, confers prerogatives on the Administration certainly in view of the general interests it serves or guardianship, and the contentious jurisdiction adapts in its procedural physiognomy to those peculiarities of administrative law in which the different position of the parties is a fact. Hence the criterion of maturity under the egalitarian appearance places the citizen in a more precarious situation before the Administration, disincentiveing him to initiate a process against the public authorities. I'm finishing up, President. We will vote in favour of the legislative initiative proposed by the Socialist Group, taking it into consideration so that we can discuss it in depth in the Committee on Justice, in which we also give voice to the various sectors involved in this issue, which, as we all know, presents important opinions in favour of and against the two jurisdictions proposed in the reform, both civil and contentious. And it may also be necessary to reflect on the costs in criminal proceedings, since the convicted person must satisfy those of the particular prosecution, including those of the accumulated civil action if convicted, but if he is acquitted and there is a particular action and/or civil action, no one pays his own expenses to defend himself and to be acquitted. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Gómez Balsera has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of Citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Group brings to the House a proposal for a law which I recognise has surprised us for a number of reasons. First of all, because while it is customary for the left to bring us initiatives and make speeches from this rostrum that go back to other times, such as the Civil War or the dictatorship, as we have seen in the previous debate, the truth is that we are now presented with a regulation that goes back to Book IV of the Institutes of Justinian, with which we cannot say that it is a subject of rabid topicality. [[Laughter]] Secondly, because if this initiative were from any other parliamentary group, as we have seen in other debates, the socialist spokesman who had come up to this rostrum would have announced his vote against putting forward the subcommission of the national justice strategy, which is the forum in which to present these initiatives or in which to introduce these debates. And as a third reason for surprise, the subcommittee of the national justice strategy has been working for more than six months without the Socialist Group having shown any interest during all this time in the criterion of procedural costs. Mrs Robles has chaired a great many of those meetings and you have not asked any of the speakers about this issue, and we have had everything: civilists, judges, professionals, and even users of the Administration of Justice. In short, the Socialist Group takes from the joke a change in the criterion of judicial costs, but it does not tell us who is the magician who is the author of the trick. If we go into detail, we see that there are two major innovations proposed by this reform: first, to change the objective criterion of maturity, or to win the suit, by the subjective criterion of the recklessness to be appreciated in the litigant; and second, to introduce an exception, the objective criterion of maturity will be followed when the litigant has the status of consumer. These developments would operate both in civil jurisdiction and in the contentious-administrative jurisdiction. The Citizens' Group, if we start with the end, is not satisfied with the current regulation of costs in the contentious-administrative jurisdiction and so we have put it black and white in the first document we have presented in that subcommission of the justice strategy. Curiously, in the section on procedural reforms, the Socialist Group proposing the initiative makes no mention at all of the costs in its document. We believe that it has cost a great deal for citizens to exercise their rights vis-à-vis an administration and that further work must be done to correct that level of inequality that exists at the outset between the parties to such procedures. In addition, the administrations, as it is said colloquially, shoot with gunpowder from the king; on the contrary, the citizen not only plays his right against the almighty Administration, but the latter is not fully satisfied if there is no restitution of the costs or expenses of the procedure. With the reform that you are proposing, do you really believe that an administration will ever act with a fear that justifies your sentence on costs? Do you really think it will be easy for the judge to appreciate that fear? Ladies and gentlemen, we will have to reflect carefully on this in order to find a more accurate wording. But it is certainly in the civil jurisdiction where his proposal for a law offers us more doubts, and these doubts go beyond some technical errors that we have appreciated, such as that of speaking in the statement of reasons for malicious or guilty action, recklessness or bad faith and, however, then transferring to the articulated only the temerity; how to link the status of the consumer to the banking products in that statement of reasons and then extend the exception to the consumers of all conditions; or how to say that articles 395 to 398 of the law are amended, when you do not touch a comma of its wording. If we go to the bottom, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the objective criterion of maturity, the one currently in force, can be too restrictive and therefore become unfair, but it has as its safety valve the assessment of serious doubts in fact or in law that would justify the non-imposition of costs and which is used on many occasions. On the other hand, the reform proposed to us today wants the general solution, which until now was established by law and nuanced by the judge's proximity, to become valorative or subjective and, therefore, potentially uneven in its application, nurturing only the law in the case of consumers. So perhaps it would not be necessary to change the general approach, but to deepen and clarify the exceptions. However, the explanatory statement is correct in saying that the fear of cost-conviction often discourages the exercise of the right of access to justice. We fully agree on that. The costs can never constitute a barrier to access to judicial guardianship, but this will have to be weighed down and put in relation to the fact that the claims or rights of the party who has been compelled to participate in the proceedings are not completely satisfied if there is no return of the costs or expenses that the proceedings have caused him. We will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration - we do not want to steal this interesting legal debate from the House - but we do so by taking note of the many reservations that we oppose to the text in its current wording and announcing the presentation of amendments by the Citizens' Group. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Moya Matas has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u32	Good afternoon. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is difficult for one to seem normal and to come up here to speak of justice precisely in a context in which my country's institutions of self-government, my country's legitimate institutions of self-government, are involved and half of my country's legitimate Government is incarcerated. Talking about justice in a state of political repression in which there are political prisoners and political prisoners is difficult, but, well, we are going to do it with our guts and we are going to the issue, because it also has its profound silence. The Socialist Group brings us a proposal for the reform of the ritual laws by which it intends to return to the criterion of recklessness as a general rule in the imposition of procedural costs, a criterion that we thought was finally buried with the adoption of the Civil Prosecution Act 1/2000, in which article 394 contained a position that already originated in the White Paper on Justice of 1997, which, as you will know, defended, in the access to jurisdiction by the citizen, the criterion of objective maturity that today is intended to be left behind by this proposal of the Socialist Group. In fact, the positive tradition in the Spanish State's ritual laws established by law the criterion of objective maturity, which we came to call the principle of who loses pay. I am not going to go back to Justinian, but I am going to go back to 1984, when a reform of the Civil Prosecution Act also changed the old section 523 and clearly established that the costs at first instance will be imposed on the part that would have seen all his claims rejected. There would be a number of exceptions where there were factual or legal doubts that were necessarily justified in case law, on the basis of criteria of equity and material justice that are also still in force today. To this day, with the validity of the criterion of objective maturity, we do keep open doors to fear in cases of partial assessment of the demand and even in cases of break-in, in that article 395 of the Civil Prosecution Act, which in the proposal brought to us by the Socialist Group comes to make a short and sticky of what already exists in the law of rites. We cannot forget that the sentence on costs is intended to compensate the winner of the lawsuit, the defendant who has been impelled, forced to resort to justice, whether in an active position of plaintiff or passive defendant, and who has been forced to pay fees - lawyer, prosecutor, expert - and to bear costs simply to obtain his legitimate right. As the case law of the Supreme Court, that of the Constitutional Court and that of the provincial hearings - for example, in 1988 the Court of Auditors - states, the imposition of costs on those who lose is not a sanction, but a counter-performance of the costs incurred. The very principle of effective judicial protection - article 24, as you well know, of the Constitution - requires that rights are not harmed by the need to go to court. The payment of court costs should not be borne by the person who is obliged to file a claim, but should be borne by the cause of such damage. To defend the contrary, what is being presented today, to defend this subjective criterion as a criterion of normal compliance undoubtedly affects the interests of the subjects who come to the justice system, limits access to justice, contravenes article 24 of the Constitution and limits the willingness to go to court. If the defendant is aware that, regardless of whether the decision he/she obtains, he/she will not be compensated for the costs of his/her claim, of his/her proceedings, this prevents him/her from going to the courts normally. In addition, we are talking about the saturation of the courts, the overload of work. We're charging the judge when he's required to give reasons if he decides the conviction costs. Such a cost-based sentence, which must necessarily be motivated, contributes to saturating the work of judges and judges and breaks the constitutional principles of legal certainty and equality in the application of the law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, I invite you to read the report on the economic implications of the operation of justice in Spain by the General Council of Economists, which at no time considers the need to change the costing regime. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, let us put an end to this follow-up to the attitudes of the People's Party. Here we have denounced it when the People's Party has submitted a reform, for example, of the shift of office or of free justice or the other day a reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary on the regulation of permits. Why are you bringing him here? We have a subcommittee on reforming the justice strategy; we have a dialogue there on this matter. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, listen to the citizenry, because that demand is there. Listen to the citizens, the professionals, the institutions, the mayors who are breaking their cards. Listen to them too, Socialist Party gentlemen. Why now this proposal? Why? Is there any connection perhaps to this saturation of claims against credit institutions that we have today in the courts? These banks, these credit institutions that so far were so comfortable were in the acting position, with their demands for eviction and foreclosure, winning most of their claims and even being compensated on their costs. Now, when they are being massively sued - claims for floor clauses and mortgage conditions - it is when this discomfort arises with respect to the maturity principle. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, wasn't the bank bailout enough? Has not the real decree on soil clauses not been enough, that real smoke curtain that has come to clearly harm the users of the bank, the consumers? Wasn't that enough? We do not like and even worry about this complicity with the interests of the bank. We would not like to see in this any relationship with these alliances that we are also seeing in Catalonia by the Socialist Party with the most conservative Catalan right. Still, we will try to find two positive points. On the one hand, the issue of coasts. We are interested, we like, we find it attractive that they do not include the fees in the cost assessment. It is an ancient claim of my party and we can defend it, but not only for individuals, as you propose, but also for non-profit entities. On the other hand, as has already been said here, in the contentious-administrative jurisdiction, that in which the citizen must face the machinery of the Administration, perhaps there we could limit the principle of objective maturity. I'm done, Madam President. We are therefore going to vote no, but inviting them to take this matter to the place where it should not have gone, to the subcommission of the justice strategy. Take her there and in that debate let's talk about costs, let's talk about fees and let's talk about administrative litigation. Let us work from that dialogueal discrepancy that characterizes us and from that constructive cordiality with which we have so much been working and with which we can certainly also work here, in Catalonia or where we need it. Take her there, we discuss there and we will certainly reach an agreement as much as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u33	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Faced with the initial words of Podemos' spokesman, I do not resist to remember that we are in legal normality. Normality implies that when there is a violation of the legal order and a violation of rights, judges act. In abnormality we would be if they were looking elsewhere for some kind of dark reason or political connivance. I therefore welcome the fact that we are in a democracy with judicial normality. [[Applauds]] The Socialist Group brings us here a proposal for a law to reform our rules on procedural costs for civil procedure and also for administrative litigation. Apart from analysing this issue outside of a more comprehensive national justice strategy - which we would have thought most appropriate - he urges us to exercise faith and to engage in forced complicity. We cannot see that its proposal simultaneously implies an improvement in the procedural economic position of citizens and a simplification of the imposition of costs for legal professionals. It also implies an complicity for us all to do here as if we don't see what's really there, which is a longing for the regulation of the past that installs us in a turn back in very significant time. Mr. Gómez, with his appointment as Justinian, has already saved me back to The Seven Parties, but we are in the same position. I recognize that positions are very much found and, as a whole, perhaps irreconcilable. These positions regarding the best theoretical method of imposing the procedural costs and fixing them throughout the procedure have to respond less to ideological a prioriism than to purely technical disputes, in the light of the various interests present, social interests and professional interests that we have to reconcile because they are legitimate. We may therefore appreciate that even within each parliamentary group, when we talk about the philosophy underlying the regulation of costs or the methodology on their calculation and fixing, there are different positions. The proponents have to be very aware of these difficulties and of the diversity of possible technical approaches before even projecting on them our parliamentary or political positions and before breaking the tradition of the objective maturity. The practical effect could be to increase the litigation rate and increase the workload of the courts. If this increase really responded to the defence of citizens' interests, it would be good in all circumstances, but it can be said that the increase in the number of demands or answers is made without much legal basis. This does not seem to my group a lesser risk. Having to pay the lawyer and the prosecutor is a complication and represents a certain injustice when it prevents the restoration of the property situation prior to the injury of the right. Mrs Hernanz, I ask you to review the examples you give us, because if it is generally dissuasive that the costs should be paid, tell me if it does not seem more dissuasive than being right, acting and once you have been given it you have to pay the lawyer and the prosecutor. Maybe that ended up being even more dissuasive. When it comes to administrative contentious procedures, the criterion will also have a clear impact on the budgets of public administrations, which will have to deal with the increase in demands with more personal and material resources and, in addition, may lose revenue from the costs. But it seems to me that the greatest danger for everyone in practice would be that justice would cease to be perceived by citizens as a universal public service and that only those who have the opportunity to pay the costs it has without being compensated for the procedural costs can face up to the defence of their positions. That is why I am making the most of my group's serious concerns about the proposed reforms, which we know are also shared by many professionals and users. I should like to point out that over the last few decades the proposing group has been profoundly changing in its own position on this, which has been changeable, not to say frankly erratic. Mrs Hernanz, this proposal contains what I do not know if it is a clamorous but an intense amendment to your convictions of the recent past. If we stick to the arguments he has made here, those used at the time by the Socialist Group - made for their attachment to the side of the target maturity thirty-three years ago in the civil procedure, but much more recently in the case of the litigation procedure - would have been neither legally useful nor socially sensible. You are amending yourselves and you are setting up your own work on the pretext of an update that actually contains an amendment to everything you have been putting forward here for a long time. In the face of what some other groups think - which we are going to close down in a band - we are going to facilitate the social debate, which seems interesting to us, in a much more narrow legal terms than the literal tenor of your proposal brings us. There is an intense doctrinal controversy, pragmatic opinions that are on, and you do not ignore it. Many voices have always been raised for a modulation of the coasts, but not so much for a suppression as in practice you can pose. In my professional college, that of lawyers of León, but in any other of lawyers or prosecutors with a certain number of collegiates, when these matters are discussed the nuances go beyond the encounters, and this feeling that we have is increased if we also join the opinions of other legal operators, the judges and the secretaries. This is something that the collegiate bodies think about, that professional offices regret, that is something that is feared among users, and I believe that it will also be discussed in the General Councils in the near future, and we would do well to take account of your opinion on this. In conclusion, Madam President, there are four aspects that we want to make clear for the future, for the successive debates and for the amendments that we are going to table. First, the difficulties of reconciling the need for clarity in the law, in order to escape from a subjectivity - that is the risk involved in the literal wording of its proposition - that results in randomness or even worse, that is discretion. Let us accept adaptability to the specific conditions, but that must be very well shaped in the law, in its literal tenor - and it is not in its text - so that in each case they can be appreciated by the judge - I insist - properly. For us - I conclude, Madam President - the modulation of the norm cannot be diluted in an atomization of infinite situations. We also want the context of the reform to avoid changing a principle by an amalgamation of factual situations. The principle of objective maturity should be changed by another principle that provides us with security and predictability. Finally, if costs are a deterrent to that magnitude, which unjustifiably weakens access to effective judicial protection, we fear that, as it is drafted, we would not resolve it with its proposal. So, with all these nuances, with the announcement that we will be very active in tabling amendments, I will end by telling you that, for the sake of this social debate, we will accept your proposal today and vote in favour of it. Thank you very much, Madam President, for your generosity. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u36	We now turn to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group, concerning the establishment of a new regulation that strengthens the protection of users of financial services of entities not supervised by the Banco de España. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs López Ares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the non-legislative proposal we put forward for your debate and vote in this plenary is intended to respond to a reality faced by thousands of users who turn to so-called fast credits offered by unregulated entities. Last August, the European Banking Authority published a document analysing fintechs operating in Europe, more than one thousand and five hundred, and concluded that approximately one in three are not subject to any regulatory regime in the European Union or in national legislation, so they work outside the control of regulatory bodies. The first important clarification is that in this initiative we refer exclusively to these companies that take advantage of the existing legal vacuum. Therefore, all those operating in our country regulated by the Banco de España or by the National Securities Market Commission remain out of reach. The second important clarification is that of the different risks associated with the expansion of fintech companies, which are currently being studied in different areas of the European Union, today we want to focus on consumer protection in relation to fast credit companies. In the 2017 Fintech Adoption Indext study, it is established that 37% of Spaniards are users of fintech companies, the pattern being that 20% of them request a quick credit. In short, we refer in this initiative to loans of small amounts, at very short terms and in which lenders are unregulated entities, a situation which leads to these operations not being subject to supervision. This absence of a regulatory framework leaves the consumer in a situation of unprotectiveness, with excessive interest rates, including usury, with deficiencies in the information provided at the time of signing the contract or under abusive conditions in the event that the amount of the loan cannot be returned within the contractual period. In addition, fast credit companies have greatly relaxed the criteria: access via the Internet or via a call, have between twenty-one and sixty-five years, a telephone number and a bank account. The answer is received in a matter of minutes and the money in just a little bit more. The amounts usually do not exceed 1000 euros, the deadlines move between five and thirty days and the refund is in a single quota. No payroll or endorsement is required and they often have specific offers for those applicants listed in a late registration. These private lenders - as indicated at the start of the intervention - are neither supervised by the Banco de España nor by the National Securities Market Commission; many of them are offshore domiciled and are characterized by offering a high cost of financing to their customers. On their websites they talk about fees, because the resulting equivalent annual rate, which is the amount that the borrower actually supports, considering commissions, interest and penalties, is clearly disproportionate. I'm going to give you two examples of two web pages, exactly from yesterday, where a one-week loan of 100 euros would have an annual rate equivalent to 5431% But we can get more, because on another web page, in another company of this type, a one-week loan of 50 euros could reach 38,925 394% of equivalent annual rate. [[Show a chart]] [[Show another chart]] These are not data that I have invented or calculated, but it is the information they give on their own web pages. Article 1 of the Usury Act of 1908 provides that any loan contract in which a substantially higher interest than the normal interest of the money is stipulated and manifestly disproportionate to the circumstances of the case or under such conditions as to result, that, Leonine, there are grounds for believing that it has been accepted by the borrower because of his distressed situation or lack of experience. But it also states that the contract in which more than the truly delivered quantity is supposed to be received, whatever its identity and circumstances, will be null and void. Therefore, this law does not establish an interest rate above which to speak of usury, nor does it establish the relationship that must exist between the amount received and the amount delivered, and it is the Supreme Court itself that is sitting doctrine in this regard. But what can be said is that the equivalent annual rate in this type of loan is much higher than the legal price of the money, which is 3%, being multiplied by 500, by 1000 and even by 13 million, being able to speak clearly of usury interest rates, and neither is there any doubt that the borrower often accepts the conditions because of the distressed situation. In addition to excessive interest rates, there are other shortcomings. According to the study 'Quick Credits: Consumer Information Program 2015', developed by Facua, in many cases the information provided is incomplete. In this sense, on many occasions interest is hidden, when they report to them, in terms of fees or management costs, but in addition in many companies they do not provide complete information, inter alia, on the credit granting entity, the total amount to be paid, the duration, the costs of the credit, the debtor rate, the consequences of default and the equivalent annual rate. And we must not forget that information about the consequences of default is important, because, according to Adicae, one in ten quick loans ends up in a complaint by the lender company, and this happens for two reasons: one, because the unpaid debt has sometimes multiplied the initial loan granted by up to ten times within a relatively short period of time, so the amount already compensates them for litigation, and two, because the borrower is a person of few resources who does not have the capacity to face the demand, so he often does not appear to the court and have it won in advance. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. The need to protect consumers, for whom these rapid credits have become a last resort, vulnerable consumers who do not have access to any other type of financing, is the end of this initiative, which aims to prevent abusive or usury situations arising as a result of the supplier's own need to request such services. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u38	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Montero Soler intervenes first of all, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States, Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Soler.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is presenting us this afternoon with a GNP to urge the Government to establish a new regulation to strengthen the protection of users of financial services from entities not supervised by the Banco de España. Thus read, in these terms, it would seem difficult to be against this non-legislative proposal; the maximum that could be blamed is that, instead of urging the Government, it did not bring directly the regulation to which it refers, and we would all have saved ourselves time and parliamentary procedures. However, as one enters into the reading of the explanatory statement he finds that elements begin to appear that question the goodness of the measure and question its essence. If you read the first sentence of the explanatory statement, the first thing you find is that the rise of this sector of unsupervised enterprises is due to two fundamental arguments: one, the economic crisis, like almost everything that has happened in this country in the last ten years - up to drought - and two, the difficulties of financial institutions to facilitate financing. Like this, just like that. This leads us to a first element of reflection, and it is that there are structural elements in our economy that induce certain very vulnerable groups to end up in the hands of this group of usurpers who use a legal vacuum to appropriate, plunder and abuse the conditions of need of a large group of the population. What are these structural factors? Basically, a fall in wage incomes - we are in a percentage on the gross domestic product which is not even that of before the crisis, but that of 1999 - and above all the wage adjustment which has occurred on the lowest wages, on the lowest deciles, which are precisely the people who are in a situation of greater social vulnerability and who are therefore forced to resort more intensively to indebtedness, because if they cannot reach it by the conventional way they end up having to look for alternative ways. The consequence is that they end up in the hands of these usurers' collectives. The problem, in our view, is that the non-law proposal errs in the diagnosis and, therefore, leaves the solution proposals in the air. It errs in the diagnosis because it attributes a concrete value to this set of companies, to this set of unsupervised entities. In fact, the non-law proposal says textually: although it is necessary to protect borrowers, we cannot avoid that these companies offer a useful service by granting credits to people who do not have access to other types of financing. The problem is that this sector moves in an area bordering on illegality and what it does is to take advantage of the lack of regulation, because what regulates usury in this country is the Azcarate Law of 1908, where no limit or precise concreteness is established about what is usury and which allows this kind of practice. So it has had to be the Supreme Court that will question the existence and presence of these companies to which the People's Party gives value, to the extent that the Supreme Court says that the irresponsible granting of consumer loans to interests far above normal is not covered in the legal system. That is to say, they are telling us that these companies, on the one hand, do not assess the risks of the clients who apply for the credits and, on the other hand, subject them to usury interest rates that, taken to the courts, end up sanctioning against the company. The question, in short, is what kind of regulation you are aiming at. The first obviously has to go through the regulation of what is usury in this country, and the second and third, which have as their condition the prior regulation of usury, go through two elements that we think are fundamental. Firstly, if these companies continue to exist, they must be supervised by the National Securities Market Commission and/or the Banco de España. And secondly - and this is something that I point out to you because you have not noticed it and the analogy serves you - in your legitimate desire to protect this type of consumer, who I do not question to you that they are financially vulnerable people, in order to prevent them from falling into the networks of usurers from being offered help and public financial guarantees. I would like to remind you that this country has granted - I am finishing, President - aid and public guarantees to the financial system by value - according to the Court of Auditors - more than EUR 122 billion. Just as it is the moment when the bank does not need these guarantees and public aid, it is the time that these people in a situation of social exclusion need it and, therefore, it is the time to support them. The option of our parliamentary group goes through the combination of both, supervision and aid, above all because we start from a deep conviction - and I conclude - and we are convinced that the citizens of this country are much better payers than the banking in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u40	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Lasarte Iribarren has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, when someone tells us about usury, images of past, medieval centuries come to mind. San Buenaventura said that with the payment of interest the time was sold, and the scholastics of the Spanish Golden Century considered usury the price charged on any loan. Centuries of sane debates on the value of money and the passage of time had to pass so that the Catholic Church would admit the practice of charging an interest in business and personal loans as compatible with Christian ethics, yes, as long as the interest imposed was not unjust or excessive. Now, when is it understood that interest is not fair or excessive? The Supreme Court illustrates us in a judgment dated November 25, 2015, which declared a loan usurer for the paid interest rate agreed to by 24.6 per cent TAE and which resulted in the declaration of nullity of the loan having to deliver only the amount received without interest. The High Court was based on the Usury Suppression Act of 23 July 1908, known as the Azcarate Act, in force after more than a hundred years, which establishes in its article 1 that any loan contract in which a substantially higher interest than the normal of the money is stipulated and manifestly disproportionate to the circumstances of the case or under conditions such as that of the Leonine, shall be null and void, with grounds for believing that it has been accepted by the borrower on account of his distressed situation, his inexperience or his limited mental powers. This law, however, does not set the specific limits of interest from which it may be considered abusive. The growth experienced by so-called quick loans in recent years as a result of the crisis, the highly indebted families and the difficulty of access to credit have led to the emergence and development of many non-financial institutions or companies engaged in debt reunification and the granting of low-value loans that are not under the supervision of the Banco de España. Quick loans or mini-credits are a type of small-scale consumer credit that is granted without the need for large guarantees or economic capacity requirements, ranging from less than EUR 200 to EUR 6000. The deadline for their return is very short and their interest is very high due to the lack of guarantees established. They are companies that are supervised by the Ministry of Health and Consumer Affairs through Law 22/2007 of 11 July on the distance marketing of financial services for consumers, and whose requirements vary according to each autonomous community in which they apply. When it comes to credit products, they are regulated by Law 16/2011 on Consumer Credit Contracts. What problems do these types of loans pose? In a 2015 study, Facua-Consumers in Action detected interest of up to 450% TAE on small loans to be returned in one month. If a loan of EUR 300 is taken as a reference to be repaid within 30 days, in the eight entities analysed by Facula the EARs ranged from 1269.7% to 4507%, and for a credit of EUR 4000 in twelve instalments the EARs were offered by more than 24%. It should be recalled that the legal interest of the money in that year was 3.5% annually. There are entities that advertise a very low EAR or interest rates, but calculate it on a biweekly or monthly basis, when the payment is made by applying an annual interest rate. Loans of less than EUR 200 are not regulated and are governed by the Commercial Code. Debt reunification can lead to a very high interest rate. They usually have very short repayment periods, which makes it difficult to return them, and most non-financial institutions and private lenders are not registered or subject to the regulations of the Banco de España. An example of a quick loan offer is made by the lender Pepedinero, all together, for a maximum amount of 500 euros, and offers the cost of 100 euros to 30 days for 30 euros, being free the first week and paying 25 euros of gift with the Padrino program. Don't tell me you don't have the money lender and the offer. In short, there is a regulatory maze and ineffective credit supervision that generate ignorance and legal uncertainty for the consumer and a new regulation is needed to protect consumers and users of this type of financial activity. That is why we are voting in favour of the initiative put forward with this non-legislative proposal. I would not like to end my speech without remembering that they are precisely the most vulnerable people, the most subject to economic offers, sometimes driven by despair and that in extreme cases they can lead to suicide, the most exposed to using this type of service and to falling into the usurful grips of unscrupulous people or entities. It's up to us to work to make those people live with dignity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u42	Thank you very much. At the time of the joint parliamentary group's position-setting, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u43	Thank you very much, Madam President. With this parliamentary initiative of the People's Group is invoked the adaptation to the 21st century of the Law of Repression of Usury, which more than a hundred years later remains in force in Spain. Gumersindo de Azcarate, his driving force, sought with that rule the protection against the lion's conditions of the usurers, has emphasized it the deputy López Ares. Today, therefore, following the Azcarate model of the law, we hope to achieve greater user protection from the opacity of a series of financial products that are trying to place in seemingly advantageous marketing conditions, but that end up bumping into hooks to capture victims very often in a state of despair and anxiety, when not of estultice, that ignore and discard everything that is not getting credit and money as soon as possible. It has already happened, to the detriment of the control and general perplexity bodies, in the field of supervised financial and savings trading entities, and for much more reason it happens and will happen in unsupervised entities. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative has an impact on the risks of getting money fast and easy, promoting a new government regulation that strengthens user protection. It is urgent to control the granting of express loans signed against clocks with very simple contracting mechanisms, with lowercase letters and conditions, but major economic links that end up turning into nightmares for the heritage and survival of people and families. Ultimately, it is urgent to prevent fraud in mortgages, loans and loans that are granted outside supervised circuits and to accentuate consumer protection mechanisms. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u44	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party brings us for the umpteenth time a proposal not for hollow law, without a concrete content, without actually proposing anything to us, and this is something that is already worrying because we do not seem to have better things to occupy our time. It seems, moreover, that it is distorting our function and that, instead of being genuine representatives of the Legislative Power, we are a kind of Francoist procurators who come here obediently to say something so that, at the moment, if it is for the Executive's sake, we can act, and this is not really the case, especially on a subject that there is a lot to say, about the regulation of the EAR, about the abusive commissions that are charged when there are loan recasts, about the need to be clearer in the repression of these practices by resorting to the types of fraud. And there we have that the simple guy is punishing with sentences of six months to three years. In short, what we are seeing here is that we really have nothing to say about it. Finally, we will support this non-legislative proposal in Compromis only if we accept the amendments that have been tabled by the Group of the European People's Party and the Socialist Group, because in this way we can have some content and have some measures that, although timid, are moving in the direction of the necessary regulation. If these amendments are not accepted, we cannot vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u46	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u47	Thank you very much, President. First, I must recall that ten political prisoners remain in prison, eight of whom are ex-members of the Government of the Generalitat, unjustly imprisoned as preventive political prisoners. Having said that, as we have little time, I will simply say that we are not going to oppose the initiative because the examples that Mrs López has put here are patent. Users are receiving financial services from entities that are not both unregulated and unsupervised. The question is whether these examples you have given of the websites, which you have taught us all and which are scandalous, do not know them in the Ministry of Economy. You presented this in March, this is November, I cannot understand that knowing the reality and that there are people in good faith who can fall into this provision of improper services, it has been eight months and the Ministry of Economy has not sent us a bill, because it is not so difficult to solve it either. Therefore, we are not going to oppose it. If the ministry does not do so on its own, it will have to do so at the request of this House and then we will make amendments if we do not share it. I repeat, it is difficult to understand that the ministry does not act motu proprio. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u48	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u49	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. As mentioned in the PNL explanatory statement presented by the People's Group, it is true that the sector of private loans granted by non-financial institutions has experienced significant growth, both because of the economic crisis and also because of the closure of financial institutions to access credit, but also because of their strong advertising presence in the media. In addition, they have highlighted the financial vulnerability of those who have hired such products and services, as abusive and inadequate sales of such products and services have been made. Thus, we find the consumer credits, quick credits, credit cards, instant loans or IDP that are granted instantly and practically without paperwork or requirements. It must be borne in mind that consumers of this type of product are those who have an urgent need for money and even small amounts and the consequences that result from the purchase of these products are usually more serious than in any other type of service, as they carry - as you have all said here - high interest rates whose effects are not always understood by consumers, are subject to high quotas and charges, impose high costs when the consumer does not comply with the obligations arising from their procurement, among others. Already between 2000 and 2008, during the financial crisis, the European Parliament recommended the strengthening of consumer protection in this regard and in this regard it came to say that consumers must receive from the seller accurate and clear information of the financial product, that the cost or costs imposed on the consumer, dispute resolution mechanisms, etc. should be controlled. As also the companies that market these mini-credits, which are not banks or credit institutions, are not supervised by the Banco de España - it is true that some are controlled by the consumer authorities of the autonomous communities, but in practice do not have the capacity to exercise legal control - and some are registered in the Commercial Register and others are not, may make it difficult for the person concerned to have the capacity to exercise his rights correctly, and this lack of regulation may mean that these types of companies may not even have sufficient solvency to carry out such operations. As the GNP also points out, most of the interests involved in this type of product far exceed usury and, despite the fact that this is regulated in different regulations, in case of conflict there is a need to resort to case law and analyse on a case-by-case basis, since the only law dealing with usury is the Azcarate Law, but it does not set the interest rate above which the interest applied to a loan contract can be considered abusive. It is therefore necessary to provide a collective solution, a solution to regulate this type of products and services, a solution for the regulation of this type of business, as well as the updating of this Azcarate Law. In addition, consumer associations have on numerous occasions pointed out that the legislation on lenders is ambiguous and that this has facilitated the increase in abuse of the economic needs of citizens and also because of the lack of transparency with which they work. For this reason, and bearing in mind that the crisis has already highlighted the problems arising from the recruitment of this type of mini-credit and that, perhaps, this type of measure had to have been adopted earlier through a draft law, we believe that this problem needs to be addressed, that regulation - as I said at the beginning of my intervention - should be made to offer greater protection to the consumer in this type of products and services. For these reasons, our group will vote in favour of this GNP. Thank you. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u50	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mrs López Ares, we have the good news that we are also in favour of good and against evil and that we obviously believe that financial consumers must be protected more and better. [[Applauds]] Throughout the crisis, it has been shown that there have been serious problems in the financial industry, both in the regulated and the unregulated parts. You focus on the problem of the financial services of those who seek credit and receive user loans, but there are also savers who have been scammed in the crisis, as is the case, for example, of the preferents, who were traded as if they were deposits when it was actually a high-risk financial product. All of this requires two fundamental reforms. Firstly, to have better supervision and, secondly, to have an agile and functioning justice because that is what can respond to the needs of consumers and users. In this sense, when we see the explanatory statement of this non-law proposal - which we think is correct - there are two issues that attract attention. Firstly, that you affect the freedom of enterprise when you are able to grant loans. It seems good to us, but we must take into account a fundamental principle in this respect, which is that there must be the same regulation and supervision over the same activity, because if there is no unfair competition. The paradigmatic case is the companies that you put here very publicly that are offshore companies. These companies, according to the nautical jargon, are companies that operate off-board, i.e. companies based in tax havens. I do not know about you, but our parliamentary group is convinced that there must be freedom of enterprise, but that all companies must tax the same and that we must pursue tax fraud and corruption that occurs through tax havens, through offshore companies. We agree that the Government group should bring us a non-legislative proposal to regulate this issue, but the fundamental thing is that action should be taken. In this respect, the investment agreement we have with you states in point 15 that an independent consumer protection authority and financial investor should be set up to unify and strengthen the complaint and protection services of the three financial supervisors from the CNMV. It seems to us that this should take place. Why? Not only because you and we have agreed - we also agreed at the time with the Socialist Party - but because if the three financial complaints services are unified there will be no entities left out and no one wants to supervise. We will vote in favour of this non-law proposal because, as we have said, it seems good to us, but we encourage you to see if we can get the Ministry of Economy to take it seriously and effectively to comply with paragraph 15 of the agreement and also paragraph 16, which states that the rights of consumers and users must be strengthened and the mortgage law reformed. In this regard, as the law on real estate credit approved by the Council of Ministers will soon come to this House, I would encourage all groups to be constructive and to include this protection of the financial consumer also in amendments to the draft law on real estate credit. In short, over the course of the crisis we have seen that the supervision of the financial industry has seriously failed, which is initially the responsibility of the governments of the Socialist Party and after the governments of the People's Party. We are grateful for letters on this matter and would recommend to the Socialist Group that the Government take action and finally get to work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u52	Thank you very much. I ask Mr López Ares whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u53	President, it will remain in the terms in which it has been submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u54	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, in Marea, with regard to the quality and clearance of waiting times to receive the services regulated by Law 39/2006 of 14 December for the promotion of personal autonomy and attention to persons in situations of deprivation. [[File number 162/000484]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the quality and decreases in waiting times to receive the benefits regulated by Law 39/2006 of 14 December on Promotion of personal autonomy and care for people in a situation of dependency. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Marcello Santos.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u56	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. What my Confederal Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea is proposing today is a matter of vital importance to us: we believe that it is necessary to reduce waiting times for the attention list of the Unit Law. What do we propose and what does it mean? That since a person comes to the social services to apply for recognition of the Dependency Act within a period of not more than six months that person would have to be receiving the resources and services of the Dependency Act, because the person who goes to the social services to apply for application of the Dependency Act does not want a simple role where he or she is recognized to be entitled to it, he or she wants the services and resources to be made available to him or her as soon as possible. That is why we limit the time to six months, because if we do not find ourselves as there are already more than 420,000 people, in what we call the limbo of dependence, because despite having recognized by law their situation, resources and services do not reach the families. Why do we say it's urgent to reduce it to six months? By a simple logic, first, of law enforcement and, second, by efficiency and efficiency. It is not logical that it should go up to more than six months because then, once that dependency law is applied, the dependency situation of the person will have changed and unfortunately always evolves to worse, so we believe that it is necessary to reduce the time. And how is it possible to reduce waiting times? Very easy, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: increasing funding. You have muddled and muddled a thousand times the increases that you had made in the last General State Budgets, a money that you said you were spending on aid to the unit when simply that which you were financing via general budgets did not even reach the 15 000 people who are on the dependency list, when we talked about that the total number of people you are waiting for is more than 426,000. Forgive me for telling you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that you have very little shame in saying that you support and serve people who are in a situation of dependence. [[Applauds]] They are true crumbs what you are doing, assistanceism and charity, just as you do with social services. Why do we say that it is urgent to reduce waiting times, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Because behind these figures there is suffering, pain, despair of the non-professional and deceased caregivers: ninety dead and dead a day waiting for the application of the Dependency Act. It's a real shame. Put your head down. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] And so that you do not say that these are isolated cases or that you do not know these cases, I bring you a case right here: the file of a gentleman - in theory - of social services, a companion of ours, Gerardo Pérez, of Quintanilla del Valle, a little village of León, 85 years old. Degree of disability recognized, 78 per cent, reduced mobility recognized, so much that it needs a third person for all activities of daily life. In December 2016 he was granted the application of the Dependency Act, in October of the same year he died waiting once again for the resources that never arrived. But do you know who did come in every morning to take a shower, clean him up, give him breakfast, take care of him and take care of him? Her daughter Dolo; and I say her daughter as her daughter-in-law, her sister, her aunt or her sister-in-law, and all in the name of a woman, because 85% of the non-professional caregivers are always women. [[Applauds]] A situation that gets even worse when we are talking about the rural world; there is no idea of what it is like to care for a dependent person in a village. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, in order for you to see that what we are proposing here is feasible, we are going to give you a simple accounting point: with the more than one billion you have stolen, we could look after all the people in a situation of current and future dependence, so using their own words, of those of the People's Party: applying the Dependence Act because, as you say, a government that is outside the law has no democratic legitimacy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u57	Mrs Terron Berbel has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a time when your members of the People's Party ruled on Friday black. Do you remember? Do you remember the fear that the Spaniards were living with that a new Friday of cuts would arrive? As they cut our rights, they diverted public funds into their corrupt pockets. While 420,000 people are on the waiting list waiting for a right they have recognized, Mr. M. Rajoy charges his father's attention and care to Moncloa's accounts. Because it's very easy to cut when it doesn't affect you, right? [[Applauds]] On one of those black Fridays, specifically in July 2012, they passed Royal Decree 20/2012, which was the demolition of the Dependency Act. Fortunately, Spain has changed and you no longer govern by absolute majority, but the consequences of your policies remain in force and I will remind you of them. Thanks to you these 420,000 people are on the waiting list and have a recognized right and thanks to you over the past two years more than 200,000 people have died waiting for help that you had recognized. Ladies and gentlemen, they're dead! Because do you know how long it takes from a person asking for that help to the addiction until it reaches him? There are communities in which it takes a year and a half. Can you imagine what a year and a half is like in a family with a person with Alzheimer's disease? Can you imagine? That is why we are here today, to reverse that situation and to ensure that within a maximum of six months the person can receive it. That's by law. Ensure that it is guaranteed and that the law is enforced. And they'll tell me how! It is financed through General State Budgets and reversing the more than 3.5 billion infamous cuts that the People's Party has provided for the system of dependency. [[Applauds]] Thus, ladies and gentlemen, we will be able to guarantee real attention, we will be able to guarantee the autonomy of people dependent not only on them, but also on their families, and we will be able to build a system and a model of care in this country. You can get involved in flags like the wolf that devours the sheep and hides under their skin, but while they do there is a Spain that knows that the greatest pride of a country is to take care of its people and there is a Spain, as the poet José Angel Valente said, which with his hands builds house, bread and tomorrow, and that, ladies and gentlemen, that is our homeland. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u59	For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Alli Martínez, first of all, is speaking by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also adopt a position on this occasion.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u60	Thank you, Madam President. I will try to introduce some wisdom into this debate which is much more relevant than not listening here to some rallies that I think are out of place. I say it with all humility and I say it with all parliamentary courtesy. We are amending your proposal and thank you for accepting that amendment on the second part of this non-legislative proposal which has to do with reliving and making sense at the level agreed in 2006 following Unit Law 39/2006. Because that law, which the Navarro People's Union voted in favour, had as its philosophy that one third would pay for it by the user, another third would pay for it by each Autonomous Community and another third would pay for it by the State. The reality is that today in Navarra, at least 70% of the ships bring it, 20% of the user and 9% of the state. Therefore, our line is to return to the previously agreed level, as was done at the Cooperation Board between Navarre and the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u62	Thank you, Madam President. [[Start your intervention in Catalan]] I'm starting. The problem we are not going to solve in this vote, because it is very easy to sing that we are the change and that we can, but if you are not willing to risk and face an old and ineffective system, here it is not going to change anything at all. Risk you and let's unravel the People's Party. That would be wise, Mr. Alli. You came here to change everything, to start building a country free of gürtels, a healthy country, of the 21st century, and we share this goal, but today you are asking that those who are really doing that, let us give explanations, that those who are really risking, let us give explanations. Some are in prison, others in Brussels and people on the street and you are doing nothing. Get out of that comfort zone where you seem to have settled in, get up and see that what is now comfortable for you is what we need to change. It is not necessary for us to change it, it is essential, because the inability to reform and modernise in this House is being paid by the people. The problem we have in the field of dependence will also not be solved if we are not aware that Spain does not have an integrated global model of attention to chronicity. He's never gonna have it with the People's Party, and he's never gonna have it if no one here risks it. The advanced countries are committed to the policies of the twenty-first century. They see the person as a whole, as something integrated, and they have adapted their system to them and not the other way around, as here, it is the people who have to adapt to an outdated system. The GNP and the motions that we are presenting and the lack of determination here are not going to promote change and also reinforce this old Spanish system. I'm done. There are eight of us here. There's little we can do if you don't activate. Fortunately, in Catalonia, we have been moving along the path of the modern world for a long time. In fact, we are pioneers on this issue and we will continue to be pioneers, despite the fact that we are constantly overstepping our competences and despite the People's Party. And ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, in Catalonia we have a project, but above all bravery. The technical proposals are in the amendment we have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u63	Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor. [[Pause]] Before I give you the floor, I will remind you that you have an obligation to know the Rules of Procedure and the times. I remind you, Your Honor, with all cordiality, with the same with which I would like you to address the Presidency. Thank you very much and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u64	I have addressed the Presidency with all cordiality as well. They usually give us two minutes and today I've been given one, so I'll just try to narrow it down, but I've told you with all due respect. [[Rumors]] Anyway, I was coming here to talk about dependence, so let's talk about dependence. In the Valencià Country, the central Government is contributing 13 per cent of funding to the unit, when it would have to contribute 50 per cent. It seems to them that dependent people are not a priority, but, as we talk about dependence, let's talk about everything. During the Government of the People's Party, 30,000 people in the Valencià country died waiting to receive dependency benefits, whose applications we find on many occasions in drawers without even having been processed; applications hidden there. Copays were applied which, by the way, the Supreme Court of Justice of the Valencian Community declared illegal. Let's talk about dependence and let's talk about legality, because when we talk about dependence we also talk about complying with legality. The People's Party is only interested in talking about complying with the law when it wants to, but this is also complying with the law. Let us talk about dependence, let us talk about legality and let us talk about compliance with the Constitution, because they also like to fill their mouths with the Constitution. Let us talk about complying with article 156, which establishes financial autonomy for the autonomous communities; financial autonomy also to implement policies for dependent people. So let's talk about dependence, let's talk about economic financing, and let's talk about the fact that in order to under-finance the Valencia Country, they repeatedly fail to comply with their sacrosanct Constitution, which they use for other things as if it were the maximum force. This is also about dependence, it is also about legality and it is also about the Constitution. This mismanagement has recently been overly covered with Spanish flags and, if you want us to feel part of this great nation, it would also be good for you to treat us as equals and not as a second-rate citizen and to apply Article 156, which establishes fair treatment for all autonomous communities. A fair deal that this same Saturday we will ask in the streets of Valencia; a fair deal also for people with dependency and that is also talking about dependence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u65	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Clemente Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u66	Madam President, thank you very much. [[The Lord]] Let me get out of order a little bit, because I would like to address Mrs Nogueras, whom I thought she understood in Catalan that there are political prisoners in Spain. I will give you an exclusive: Citizens also support political prisoners, but those who truly recognize Amnesty International. [[Applauds]] Taking up a matter as important as dependence and the reduction of waiting lists, the proposal brought to us by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United We CanIn Comú PomemIn Marea we consider it relevant, but we amend it as I will explain later. It was not long ago the 10th Anniversary of Law 39/2006 on the promotion of personal autonomy and care for dependent persons. Although at the time it was an advance in social matters and we live in it, we will all agree that the model has many shortcomings, being a disappointing law for people with support needs for their personal autonomy and for older people. Deepening down on the diagnosis Mrs Marcello Santos has made, I would like to focus on the fact that the data are even worse. We have them more up-to-date and I would like to give a number of them for considering them embarrassing and relevant. In Spain, as of 30 September, there were 1,239,043 persons in recognized dependency status, 311,522 with full entitlement to benefits or services that are still on that desperate waiting list and 445,630 who are without any help and are in the so-called limbo of care. At that time, we had data on the indicators, there were a total of 1,684,673 requests, of which 124,332 were still awaiting evaluation. This means that 3.62% of the population needs more or less intensive support to develop the basic activities of daily life. These data are from September 30, and if you make the difference between the people who are awaiting evaluation, only the increase from August 30 to September 30 has been 2.23%, which means that the dependency care service remains largely improveable. With regard to the number of people who have died, it is estimated that in the last five years 150 000 people are dependent on a recognised right who have died without any assistance, 18 000 in the last six months alone. Of course, these people have not died for this cause, but they did so with the unfulfilled expectation of exercising their rights and receiving attention. If you do the count, there are more than a hundred dependent people who have died daily without receiving any help or benefit, which corresponded to them. The dependents are the Spanish who bear the most copago. Their families are doing a job that the administrations should do. To all these problems is added a growing and very serious inequality between autonomous communities, both in coverage and in management model. Inequalities exist in our country, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that last week the so-called left-wing and progressive parties were seen not to agree with a proposal of ours which defended the elimination and harmonization of inequalities of the National Health Service, since they denied it. We have all been dependent, ladies and gentlemen, we will all be dependent and we all have very close examples. If we do not reinvent the model, we fail it, we will continue to fail the entire group affected by the situations of dependency, their families and, therefore, all of us. If we are able to reach a state pact for our pensions, for education or for ill-treatment, why should we not be able to reach a pact that guarantees the needs of this group and their families? Families with dependents need all the help they can get, service and care. For Citizens it is a priority, and we have shown it to be so. We had it in mind in the investment agreement, in points 44, 57, 58, 59 and 60, we understood the diagnosis and knew that its funding had to be increased in a sustainable manner and without inequalities. That is why, when we negotiated the past General State Budgets, those that since 2012 added an accumulated cut of Mr Rajoy's government of 2865 million, we brought an increase of 10%. It is clear that we must improve coordination between central and autonomous administration, and we therefore propose to promote a state pact for social services and dependency, agreed with the autonomous communities, in order to achieve agile, common and sustainable management, improving their funding so that those resources are sufficient, equitable and of quality. I don't want to go any further on the diagnosis. The technical issue of the amendment I hope will be considered by the proposing group. These are issues that are not just semantics. Finally, I would like to send a message of hope from this rostrum to those more than 400,000 Spaniards who are in that limbo of the situation of dependency without benefits. My parliamentary group is going to work on it and we are not going to leave them alone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Clemente. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u68	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. From the examination of this GNP came different sensations. On the one hand, she seemed a little confused and anomalous to me. It begins by proposing a GNP for an amendment of Law 39/2006 as if it were a legislative initiative. Furthermore, it also does not clarify whether it should be done through a bill or a royal decree-law by the Government. But with these first impressions taken away, the truth is that, nevertheless, we also had a positive impression of the proposal, because apart from the shortcomings that I will now seek to warn, we agree with its basic purpose, that we believe that it is, on the one hand, to guarantee to the recipients of the system an effective time limit for responding to the procedures that may be required as a result of the offer that exists under the Guarantee Act and, on the other hand, to require the Government to re-establish those agreements that were left without effect for financing and that were in force until Royal Decree-Law 20/2012 on budgetary stability measures. The Law 39/2006 states that actions to care for dependent persons and to promote their personal autonomy should be directed towards the achievement of a better quality of life and personal autonomy. Article 14 of the Law specifies that such care benefits may have the nature of services and economic benefits. A first examination gives the impression that, in principle, it seems to mix the economic benefits of other services contained in the service portfolio without distinguishing them. I understand that there are two, in essence, the issues that he proposes to amend. The first is to recognize the right to benefits from the date of submission of the application or, in the event of silence, from the six months, compared to what is provided for in the current text which refers to the date of its recognition. It should therefore be noted that the proposal does not distinguish such an effect, irrespective of the nature of the benefit and, in our view, confuses the rightfulness with its recognition. It should also be recalled that both the economic benefits and their scope can only be specified from the actual assessment by the competent social services, so that no regulation can anticipate the recognition of the right to the assessment of their needs and their intensity. The amendment also imposes, by confusing wording, the effective initiation of the reception by the person concerned in the provision of the service within a maximum period of six months, which appears to be in contradiction with that of the right which has been held since the submission of the application. On the other hand, he said that the Government was urged to restore the necessary economic resources to meet the contribution required by the Dependency Act, without specifying whether they were dedicated to one or another destination, but for that purpose we can also agree, especially because, in that respect, Euskadi had already fulfilled its obligations; that is, regardless of what the State might have intended, regardless of whether it had failed to comply with the agreements it had previously had and even regardless of whether they had not even been appropriated after the Budget Stability Act, the amounts allocated in Euskadi had been those corresponding to the volume we understood to be necessary to provide for such dependency situations. I want to say with this that, in this case, it is not a question of equality, it is not a question of social pact, Mr. Diego Clemente, but it is a question of responsibility on the part of all administrations in prioritizing what we believe to be important. In this case, in the Basque Country, the outlaws who are competent in the matter have penalized him to the extent that they provide financial resources for those amounts which have not even been assisted by the State. As an example, in the case of Álava, Vizcaya or Guipúzcoa, the existence of a guarantee with a maximum period of sixty days, two months, for the resolution of these requests is also reflected in their domestic legislation. I will therefore tell you that, in principle, it does not affect us, although we understand that we must also participate in your competition. In Guipúzcoa, even, there is a differential element, and that is that in addition to the aid granted there are others to prevent those dependents who may not want to enter the care system, in the residential system, from doing so through resources provided by the foreign parliament itself to be in their own home. This is also a novelty, not only interesting but complementary, in which as a society we are committed not only to creating it, but to equip it. Therefore, the claims, regardless of the small rulings it may contain, which draw the non-legislative proposal, and apart from the fact that we believe that it would also be unthinkable to think that it could reach the category of legislative proposal at a given time, are supported. Although we understand that although its scope with regard to us can only count on the financial sphere, of course, we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u69	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. Mrs Ramón Utrabo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u70	Thank you very much, President. This non-law proposal refers in its title to two very important aspects of the Dependency Act: on the one hand, quality and, on the other, the decrease in waiting times for benefits. It is true that the content of this title is not very consistent with the content that is then put into the non-law proposal because the Government is urged here essentially to generate the right from the date of submission of the application with a maximum of six months, and the Government is also urged to restore economic resources. We have been surprised that, although the title refers to the quality of the benefits, it is not mentioned in the operative part of this GNP. We have also appreciated a mistake in the explanatory statement, as it mentions the need to shorten the maximum resolution, grade and level times, when, as you know, more than five years ago the pernicious Royal Decree 20/2012 eliminated the differentiation that existed from the grades to two levels. Despite these issues, which we have noted, what I do want to make clear is that my group, the Socialist Group, will be in favour of improving the system for autonomy and attention to dependence, and much more so if it is to reverse this regressive reform of the People's Party, as well as the cuts that this Government has inflicted in recent years. We, the Socialist Group, are not going to do as you did when we put forward a non-legislative proposal to recover the social security contributions of carers in the family environment, because with your abstention they did not move this initiative forward. I insist that we will always be in favour of improving the system of autonomy and care for dependent people. With regard to the reduction in waiting times for benefits, we fully agree that it is also a need that needs to be addressed as soon as possible. More than two years have passed since the system's progressive implementation schedule was fully implemented and yet there is a waiting list that is absolutely intolerable. We cannot allow almost every day to die around a hundred people who have recognized the right, but have not received it. It is urgent to give an answer to this problem and it seems to us that the formula proposed in paragraph one of this initiative may be appropriate. On the other hand, it seems to us that, in order to eliminate the waiting list, it is absolutely essential to increase the economic resources of the system. The cuts in the budgets of 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, with the elimination of the agreed level and the decrease of the minimum level, if we compare them with what we had budgeted in 2011, exceed the 2 billion euros, and that considering that in 2011 the law was not fully implemented, we did not have the obligation to care for all people who were in a situation of dependency; and we have 2 billion euros less without taking into account the social security contributions of caregivers in the family. These are the figures, even if the People's Party Government tries to hide them, resorting to mixing finalist financing, which is really going to the system, with autonomous financing, in which dependence is only a criterion of distribution. It is an impossible game to juggle because, on the one hand, the People's Party government here denies us the cuts, while it presumes this in Europe by transferring an accumulated cut in dependence on more than EUR 2865 million, as recognised in the Stability Plan and in the reform plans sent to Brussels. On the other hand, we welcome the wording of paragraph 2 of this initiative, which talks about restoring economic resources, because that term, re-establishing, implies that there was a time when the General Administration of the State had social policies among its priorities and that the system of dependence had an endowment via General Budgets of the State at least acceptable: the years of government of the Socialist Party. Something good will have this law that was so worked out and so consensual with all the actors involved when the maximum aspiration that we have today all political groups, except the People's Party, and the organizations is to return to their original text, so far away, from which we have left the cuts imposed unilaterally by the People's Party Government. Finally, I would like to point out that the Socialist Group is pleased that in this transaction that the Group of the European People's Party has passed to us, the right to the contribution of non-professional caregivers in the family sphere by the General Administration of the State, which I insist, was an initiative, but, as the saying goes, it is never too late if this is good. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ramon. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Marcos Moyano.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u72	Good afternoon. Member of the proposing group, you have made very serious statements here concerning the President of the Government. I only ask them not to lie; they do not lie. [[Applauds]] I don't know if you will keep track of the number of non-legislative proposals relating to the very issue of social services and equality that your group has brought about in what we have in the legislature, but I'm going to tell you, it has brought two, only two. In case this data does not fit you, I will give you another one; of the 181 GNP that you have registered for plenary, only eleven are on social matters, something very eloquent for a group that wants to take over the social and very curious for a party that thinks that until it broke into the political scene of this country it was not working for and for people. This reveals what its priorities are and allows Spanish society to realize that you are more pending from the Chambers than from this House, and more pending from other matters than from the social. [[Applauds]] Still, we thank you that today we can discuss dependency and I am pleased to be able to say with arguments the following: that you cannot give us lessons. Today in Spain more than nine hundred thousand people receive some effective benefit in terms of dependency, and since 2012 more than eight hundred thousand new beneficiaries have been incorporated, a fact that deserves to be underlined given the starting situation, because in 2011 the state in which the system was located was more than alarming, collapsed, complex and unequal, and the differences that existed between the autonomous communities had put at risk both the right of citizens to the promotion of their personal autonomy and the universality of the system under conditions of equality, which was not for the territory, depended on who managed it. We have examples: in Andalusia the waiting list exceeds three hundred days, however, Castile and León, with the Government of the People's Party, is placed at the head of Spain in attention to dependence, for the ninth consecutive time, according to the state observatory. [[Applauds]] In Extremadura, when the Government of the People's Party came to the Government, waiting lists were very similar to those of today in Andalusia and in two years they managed to reduce to 50%. And, if that were not enough, I can tell you that at this time a hole of more than EUR 1 billion in social security was forged for non-professional caregivers. All this in a context of economic crisis as we had never lived before. With this panorama, the Dependency Act was doomed to failure. Fortunately, the Government of the People's Party was able to take over, on the one hand, with economic measures, which guaranteed our welfare state and, on the other, with specific actions in order to further develop this law in an effective and efficient manner. First, the catalogue of services and services of the system has been maintained in its entirety, the regulations have been ordered, the valuation process has been simplified and, above all, this debt of more than EUR 1 billion has been settled with Social Security, of which I spoke earlier. I would also like to recommend that we should not lose sight of what is being done in this new legislature, as there are many advances being made in the area of dependency. Without going further, the Sixth Conference of Presidents, held in January 2017, agreed to the establishment of a committee to analyse the situation of dependency. This document, ladies and gentlemen, was unanimously adopted on 19 October, five days before you presented this GNP. Let me stress that it was five days earlier, because it must be made clear that the issues you bring to this House today are covered in the report of this committee. My parliamentary group joins the need to continue to work with the Autonomous Communities in designing policies that will enable the implementation of the Dependency Act to be as effective and sustainable as possible and, in this regard, recognizes the marked path. There's a lot of road behind our backs, we're sure we're going in the right direction and we know there's a lot to do. I repeat again, do not want to hang the medal of the social because, as I told you at the beginning of my intervention and it is said in my land, lessons the just. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marcos. In the turn of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mrs Marcello Santos whether her group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u74	We are negotiating and whatever it is, we will get it to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u75	All right.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u76	We shall now proceed to the debate on the following agenda item: motion for an urgent debate by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Spain for the viability and continuity of the productive activity of the Canary Islands banana in our country. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to greet the Vice-Adviser of Agriculture of the Government of the Canary Islands and all the representatives of the banana sector of the Canary Islands who are with us today. I want to start my intervention as the other day, saying what the banana was for the Canary Islands, that landscape from the Time viewpoint, from the Humboldt viewpoint, a landscape of the Canary Islands that if we don't solve its viability and its future will change. It will change the possibility of employment in areas, as I said the other day, where it accounts for 75% of jobs, 50%, 30%, in Tazacorte, in Tijarafe, in Barlovento, in Los Silos or in Buenavista in Tenerife, but mainly on the island of La Palma, as well as the environmental issue is important for the carbon footprint that bananas come to Europe from the Canary Islands and not from Latin America, and also for the cost of the basket of the purchase of the Canary Islands that these 450 trucks - nine million tons - that leave every week from the Canary Islands, between three and four ships to the peninsula, can come with the goods that our land needs. Today I have a motion, which I hope will have the political consensus, that what he wants above all is for those essential measures to be taken to give viability and future to a product that, as I say, is close, ecological and, moreover, sustains a way of life on our land. To this end, we believe that the conditions are in place for compensation for the transport of bananas to come into operation. Canaries doesn't want to have a subsidized banana. The Canary Islands wants to have a banana that can compete on equal terms with bananas and bananas from third countries, with which at the moment neither European plant protection regulations nor production costs can be competed, and above all also with this possible entry with specific objectives on the Iberian peninsula of African bananas and, in particular, of the large American multinationals, whose objective is the Iberian peninsula to destroy, to disappear and to be made with the whole Spanish and Portuguese market. That is why we are presenting five proposals. The first of these, as you know, is the activation of the forecast in the 2011 decree on the transport of goods, where it was clearly stated that the introduction of the banana financial statement would be activated at the time when the tariff and price reduction took place. Know that already in the Economic and Fiscal Regime, the document that is here in the Courts, is previewed one hundred percent of the compensation to the transport of goods, with which the banana will have its own financial record of transport from 2018 onwards in an evolutionary way and that, of course, it will not go in jeopardy of the rest of the agricultural and industrial goods of the Canary Islands. There is no longer any justification for penalizing the most important export product of our land. If this compensation for shipping and air transport for banana production is not made, there will be no viability. The second point we raise in the European Union is the revival of the group of banana friends of the Governments of Spain, France and Portugal, together with the Governments of the islands and the productive sector itself. We believe that this is a very important issue and not only of the Ministry of Agriculture, but that the Ministries of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Trade must also be involved to ensure that the Community aid that has to be updated after the events that took place in 2010 is recognised. The other day the minister was very quiet. We and the whole sector are not at ease. Things in Europe need to be cleaned up, and they need to be worked on in time, with unity and with information. At the national level, we believe that importers from third countries, as I said earlier, are concentrating their activities mainly in Spain and Portugal, with prices falling to the market, with the disappearance of the national crop, and therefore we believe that there must be a formal and permanent framework of the ministry with the producers and with the autonomous community to follow up and take whatever measures are deemed appropriate. In the area of crisis management, it must be said that negative profitability has led to a question of loss containment and producer solidarity. There have been millions of bananas whose transport to the peninsula has been financed by the sector itself for food banks on the peninsula, and the path that has been opened with regard to exports to Morocco has been very important. Morocco's production is seasonal, it has a series of tariffs, and what we are asking in our motion is for an agreement to be reached through negotiations with Morocco that will allow quotas and quotas for canary production in times other than Morocco's own. I'm done. In 2009 my colleague Don José Luis Perestelo, a palm tree, like several of the Members who are going to speak, spoke of bananas. We have had the bad luck that when you were in the opposition here in Congress you said one thing and when you were in the government you said another. I believe that today the good thing is that there is a political consensus, that the government feels driven and supported by all political forces, as happened in the Parliament of the Canary Islands and as happened here. The banana sector, which is vital for our land in employment, on environmental and landscape issues, must be able to fight on equal terms - let me tell you what I say - with the big banana multinationals, because it is part of our memories. The Canary Islands, when they were going to America, to Venezuela, took a sack and there were onions, gophie packs and a bunch of green bananas. The Canarian children went to school in the 1960s with our cake and banana, made a hole and put it in. Banana is also part of our family history, of our history as a Canarian people. I would like to say to Podemos that I find his amendments interesting, but for the sake of political consensus, we will keep the motion in its terms so that it can come out unanimously. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u78	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. In defence of the amendments put forward by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Pita Cárdenes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u79	Good afternoon, President. Mrs. Oramas, I'll tell you on the way in. His interventions on the future of the banana of the Canary Islands are full of half-truths, full of true falsehoods. To begin with, you demonstrate your total ignorance and that of your party about the real situation in our primary sector. You qualify banana cultivation as an important job generator. Do you know how many people are professionally engaged in agriculture in the archipelago, according to the latest EPA? There are 21,880 people; a figure that does not even represent 3% of our total employed population, and of this figure, just over a third are associated with the banana sector. But the important thing is what these figures tell us, what these numbers tell us. We are told, Councillor and Mrs Oramas, that our field is dying and the banana sector, despite the volume of subsidies it receives especially from Europe, is not enough to reverse this dynamic, much less to reduce unemployment in the Canary Islands, which reaches 293,000 souls. What has your party - which has governed the Canary Islands for 25 years - done to defend the primary sector? Have they carried out awareness campaigns to raise consumption of the country's product? Maybe they've made a price regulation? Sign agreements with hotel chains to include our fruits and vegetables in your catering service? Have you rescued the school eateries to ensure that one in three canarian children living in poverty has a good food based on our products? No, nothing. All the inventiveness that your group has goes through the great idea of giving bananas at the door of a football stadium, Santiago Bernabéu, just saying it pisses me off. That's a big mouth. [[Applauds]] If you really valued our land, you would not have drafted a Soil Law that is at the forefront of the liberalization and unprotectiveness of island territory. How can you say that the viability of the banana sector is at risk if it is a product condensing 68% of Posei aid? These are funds which, for the most part, are - and you know it very well - in a small proportion of their producers, namely 5%, i.e. 5% of those 8500 people who are engaged in bananas are left with €70 million in subsidies. Don't you really care about the pockets of those four families that make up what we call in the Canary Islands the canary planeocracy? Mrs Oramas, making us believe that you and your party defend our primary sector when you are letting him die, is the height of imposture. Where is your party when the country's potato producers and wine growers don't charge the Posei's aid? Where is he? Do you come here to defend the interests of the political banana lobby and tell us the conditions of slavery in which banana producers in Africa and Latin America work? And aren't you worried about the income that greenhouse tomato workers earn in the Canary Islands? [[Applauds]] Those don't concern you. You have to have little shame to get your chest out of the tourist record figures that we have in the Canary Islands knowing that this tourist record is based on the inhumane days and wages of misery that our waitresses, our barkeepers, our cooks, our catering professionals receive. [[Applauds]] Fifteen million tourists a year do not justify the labor slavery of our people. Mrs Oramas, unlike your party, we are indeed concerned about the good future of bananas. That is why we have tabled seven amendments which you believe should not be accepted. These amendments have been proposed since the unanimous adoption in the Parliament of the Canary Islands of the system of compensation for the transport of goods, but that is to say, by guaranteeing the proper justification for the aid and by no means imply a reduction in the amounts received by the rest of the agricultural products. We are proposing measures that will genuinely promote the generation of decent employment in the sector, especially for small and medium-sized producers and, above all, protect our agricultural production from the ORs, the outermost regions, from the possible agreements that the European Union can establish with third countries competing with our economy. We must be consistent, Mrs Oramas, you cannot come up here in the morning and say that you defend the agriculture of our land and in the afternoon vote the CETA, which is what your Canary Coalition party has done, to support the CETA. [[Applauds]] I'm done, President. Our archipelago imports 80% of what we consume. It is suicide as a people that your party has allowed and encouraged. We want bananas to travel within a diversified, sustainable and self-sufficient economy for the Canary Islands, which is what we defend. Our amendments had that intention and were a real proposal for the future for the primary sector, not so for its text. Anyway, as the canary says: mature banana does not turn green. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u80	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pita. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. I will intervene very briefly from the seat, if I may. I think this is not the first time we have dealt with this issue, as Mrs Oramas herself commented. The oldest in the place, among which I include myself, we remember Mr Perestelo, when, day goes and day comes, he reminded us all here of the need to remember the banana in very different ways, but the truth is that I remember it with great affection. In any case, I believe that the motion presented today by Ana Oramas is a bit of the same in the sense that we cannot forget the banana. To the Basque Group, the question of bananas is far from ours, but, without going into matters which I believe do not come exactly to the case, as other groups have put it, I believe that the problems of banana production and export are understandable because of its ultraperipheral location and its almost monoculture on the agricultural issue in some specific islands, after all, the banana is part, as Mrs Oramas de Canarias said, of its economy and its personality. We are not going to get into issues about whether or not to do some things right should affect the banana issue, but we support not harming the banana - without going into issues of whether or not to benefit more -, not harming the transport issue, the sale issue or the competition issue. Of course, we must hold the government accountable so that producers in other countries cannot have a more positive situation with regard to canary bananas on European markets. Having said that, without going into the question of how the Canarian economy should be carried, which has been criticized by other groups, we will support this motion by the Canarian group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u82	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u83	President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to welcome all the colleagues who have travelled from the Canary Islands and who belong to all that is the banana sector. I would like to remind both the members of the Government, who are absent, and the party that supports the Government, that Spain has an OR, Spain has outermost regions in Europe. Why do I remember? Because when we pass from the Pyrenees up and arrive in Brussels, we suddenly find that France and Portugal, very aware that they have outermost regions, defend the interests of all the outermost regions, including the Canary Islands, and the Government of Spain is neither seen nor expected on many occasions. So I think it was necessary to remind you that we have outermost regions, which in this case are the wonderful Canary Islands, from which I also come. [[Applauds]] To talk about islands is usually to talk about physical and geographical isolation - I think that is recognized by everyone - but that does not mean that there is to talk about isolation in terms of economic development, social development and development of the primary sector. I agree with Mrs Pita that it is true that since the Canary Islands Government it has been abandoned to the primary sector for many years, but not only this government, but all of them, because they have been continuous governments. Let's get to the point. I want to expose some data that I'll link later. Unemployment in the Canary Islands is 21.83%; for children under the age of 25 it is almost 44%. But unemployment on three key islands, with regard to the issue we are discussing today, which is La Palma, with almost 25%, as well as Gran Canaria and Tenerife, with almost 20%, makes us have to ask ourselves many things. 70% of the agricultural products exported from the Canary Islands are from the banana sector, we cannot go from zero to one hundred, we are all clear, but we understand that we will have to take a first step in order to continue taking the necessary steps. I do not have to explain the difference between the products that have been mentioned here as bananas or bananas because I believe that from the sector there has been enough publicity to identify the different qualities, not only for their national recognition, but also internationally. Citizens believe in competition, of course, but in competition on equal terms. What makes no sense is that a national product is set up with plant protection barriers and barriers to free European competition and that, however, bananas or bananas from the African continent or Latin America are not required to have the same plant protection controls, because if we are talking about the food security of all the citizens of this country, I understand that it has nothing to do with the origin of the product, but that the controls have to be exactly the same as for all the citizens of the different countries, including Europe. When Mrs Pita spoke that there was not much employment, I want to say that the 1% or so, which is the primary sector's GDP in the Canary Islands, represents 20 000 jobs only with the banana sector, that is to say, there are other sectors that have a higher percentage of GDP and that have fewer jobs on the islands, so it is important that we reactivate the primary sector and also the banana sector, because it is not only a landscape potential, agri-food, but it is also a cultural potential that the islands have. Between direct and indirect jobs, as I said, it represents 20 000 jobs, of which 9,000 are direct jobs. But, if I may, I will take the leave to refer to my island, to the island of La Palma, and to talk about the fact that, for example, the tourism sector, which is 40% of the island's GDP, has about 3615 direct jobs on the island of La Palma; however, the banana sector on the same island, representing a much lower percentage of GDP, has almost 2500, which is one of the main economic engines of the island from which I come, so I think we need to talk about it. When we talk about agriculture, perhaps we all have in mind the large extensions of land to be exploited from southern Spain, but we do not understand that there are other models of agriculture such as that on the island of La Palma. Not all farmers have exclusive dedication, many are small plots farmers who have their extra dedication and this is that of cultivation. That is to say, many young people on the island of La Palma study thanks to this extra that comes from the primary sector; many young people from the non-capitalist islands and many families need these extras from the primary sector - very punished, on the other hand - in order to be able to move forward, because sometimes we talk about realities that are unknown, we talk about realities that are not aware of and, above all, we talk about a primary sector as something abstract. The criticism of the Government of the Canary Islands for its abuse of the primary sector is shared by us, but we believe that we should not allow any opportunity to support it from here, in the institutions, and that is why it is clear that, as it cannot be otherwise, we will vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u84	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. For the Socialist Group, Mr Franquis Vera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u85	President, I would first like to greet the representatives of the Canary Islands banana sector for their presence in this debate, as they did last week in the question to the Minister from whom this motion comes. I wanted to refer in principle to the tone of the speeches. I am somewhat surprised by the tone Mrs Oramas has used today in raising this motion, which is very different from what she raised a week ago when the minister appeared. I was really concerned about the question, because when one calls the government on a matter like this, on a matter of strategic and economic importance to our community, one expects the government to trust, sensitivity and leadership in the response, and what we saw was exactly the opposite: a timorous government, a minister who was not able to lift her head when reading the roles that her cabinet had prepared for her, and who was not able to speak clearly to Parliament, Congress and, fundamentally, to the Canary sector to end the insecurity, with the distrust that has been presiding over this debate for many years. This is not the first time we have talked about the banana of the Canary Islands in this Chamber, nor will it be the last. I could recall a lot of speeches from the People's Group here, and I am going to take a former Member of Parliament, because this was done by the Minister, who devoted much of her speech to talking about the goodness of the People's Party's budget with the Canary Islands, to even telling us that she was sensitive to the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands, and do not confuse the terms, when you talk about sensitivity with the Canary Islands, you are talking about the need with the Canary Islands, because that is what you got and did to be able to approve this year's budgets. They needed the vote of political forces. Nothing to do with sensitivity because it has been four or five years of voting against precisely all the good things that the minister said last week. But I was saying, with regard to the banana - you presented it five or six years ago - that the minister last week referred to a Member of the People's Group, Mr Gabriel Mato, as the only Member who supported bananas in the European Parliament. By the way, a rather sectarian position because he did not speak in his speech from the rest of the European parliamentarians who are also defending bananas in the European Parliament. In the year 2010 or 2011 this parliamentarian raised a motion which is exactly the same as what we are seeing here today and which required the Government of Spain on that occasion, among others, to include bananas in the transport aid provided for in Royal Decree 170/2009 of 13 February. Exactly the same thing that we discussed here today was raised by the Member. And I ask: what has happened in six years so that the Government of the People's Party, sensitive to the Canary Islands, has not assumed this situation and has not raised it directly from the government's own idea? They've been exactly seven years hiding a reality. The Minister's response to the inquiry last week makes me extremely concerned. You know why? Because that's exactly what they've been saying lately, there's no compromise. I therefore care much more about the Minister of Government's word last week than I do about the Group of the European People's Party supporting this motion tabled by the Canary Islands Coalition today. Much more political value has a commitment from the Government, which must demonstrate its political commitment and reliability and, above all, its political leadership. That is what worries me most about the minister's intervention, which lacked political leadership in defending the interests of the canary banana, the banana, which is Spanish, and let us not forget that it is a community production. Let's never forget that. I am concerned about the Minister's lack of leadership in leading a situation in Europe that is strategic for us from the point of view of what it means in political, economic and social terms. Because talking about bananas in the Canary Islands is talking about a social model, an economic model and values because that economic activity represents social values, economic values and a model of society, which is what European society represents. And, of course, it's hard for us to compare those models with other models in the world. Therefore, when one speaks of the competitiveness of canary bananas, one speaks of a reasonable competitiveness in economic, political and social terms. We are, of course, going to support this motion, but what I am asking the People's Party Government not only to express its support in one vote, but to assume its responsibility as the Government of Spain, to take the lead here and in Europe and to defend what they have been defending in recent years in Parliament when they were in opposition. Talking about the culture of government means defending the same thing that is done in the opposition as what is done in the government, which is not exactly what the People's Party does. We will be vigilant to ensure that this motion is complied with and I hope that it will be complied with through the budgets of next year, 2018, and therefore this financial statement will be incorporated into the General Budgets of the State for next year. Otherwise, we would be doing what the People's Party has been doing lately: saying one thing now and the other when they have to take responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Franquis. Mr Aguiar Rodríguez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon and thank you very much. I rise to this double-honoured rostrum. I am honoured because my parliamentary group, the People's Group, has allowed me to come up to this rostrum to establish a position on a matter of special sensitivity to which I speak as a canary and a palm tree. And honored to be able to address the banana sector and say that the People's Party is going to support this parliamentary initiative, which is going to say yes to this motion to respond to a historic demand. I did not intend to enter the debate because it is not precisely what the banana sector we are here wants; it does not want us to argue, but to go hand in hand in defending its interests, but, given the intervention of the spokesman for the Socialist Group, Mr Franquis, I have no other remedy. Look, as early as 2008, the People's Group presented a parliamentary initiative, specifically a non-legislative proposal. Don Gabriel Mato presented it and was rejected along with the parliamentary initiative presented by Coalition Canaria, a motion like the one that is being debated today. At that time the Socialist Group rejected it. On the other hand, he has asked me what the People's Party has done since 2011 until now. Very simple: try to get this country out of a brutal economic situation. And see if you have done well the task that as a result of having emerged from that economic situation today we can be here saying yes to that parliamentary initiative because we have the support of the Government and the economic readiness to carry it forward, so don't come here and say that the People's Party has never cared about that. And we are talking about leadership and the defence of banana interests in Europe. I ask: does anyone have a bit of memory and remember 2013, when the CAP financial statement was being negotiated and nobody was betting that it would be kept in the first pillar, the direct aid on which our Posei depends, or in the second pillar, the aid for rural development? Did anyone give a hard time to keep the financial statement? For precisely with the defense of the interests of the banana sector and the primary sector of the whole of Spain, being minister Miguel Arias Cañete and secretary of state that today is our minister, Mrs Tejerina, we managed to confirm and carry out this financial statement. If I may, in order not to continue in this debate, I will tell you that in 2011 there is a very important and very beautiful event for me and I will tell you from this rostrum. There for the year 2012 they ask the banana sector of the Canary Islands, whom I welcome to this house, why it did not require the help of the transport for the banana. The banana sector replied that they understood that this was not the time for the country's economic situation and because there were other subsectors that were going through it worse. That motivated him to congratulate them and honor them for their sensitivity and for understanding the situation. From this rostrum I welcome you and thank you again for that gesture. Therefore, the People's Party has always been, when you were ruling, presenting initiatives; when it has not been possible, giving its face, and now that there are resources committed to taking forward this situation. But, as I said at the beginning of my speech, it is not time to have discussions that lead to nothing, but to union, which is what the sector is asking us to do. We are facing a great challenge: the new negotiation of the CAP. It is estimated that the financial statement will be decided in the first half of 2019, but we have great obstacles, there is the possibility that the financial statement will be lowered again as a result of the Brexit and immigration and we have to go together. Hence the second part of Mrs Oramas' motion, which is very appropriate: union of the sector, an international union, dialogue, preparing us to give the battle and go together to Europe to defend the interests of the primary sector and specifically of the issue before us today, which is bananas. Ladies and gentlemen, I am running out of time, but I do not want to finish my speech without sending a message of union; union between representatives of the sector, union between administrations and union between political parties to try to make the best decisions and bring them forward. And that union together with a message of optimism, because if we all take the right steps, I am convinced that we will break down the barriers that the banana sector is going to have through the dynamics. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party has always been on the side of the banana sector and farmers, it is and will be in the future, working and putting its full capacity to ensure the survival of a sector like this. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Aguiar. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mrs Oramas whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u89	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u90	Thank you very much. We'll take that into account. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN TO REVEAL THE SITUATION OF LABOR PRECARIEDATION AND TEMPORARY LEVELS IN CONTRACTION. [[File number 173/000060]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u91	We move on to the next item on the agenda, on the motion, following an urgent debate, by the Socialist Group on the measures to be taken to reverse the situation of job insecurity and the levels of temporary recruitment. For the author group of the initiative, Mrs De Frutos Madrazo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u92	Good afternoon. It brings in my group this afternoon a debate that we consider social. For a few years now, we have been witnessing the settlement of practices that make job insecurity dominates everything in the labour market. That is why we are bringing this initiative today; we are bringing an initiative that we believe is necessary. We are reading these days that the Community institutions, which were the first to defend the need for structural reforms to create employment, are concerned that all these structural reforms have only led to the precariousness of labour relations. We have called for support during these hours and we will take into account all contributions in order to reach a consensus on this initiative. We think that no one who defends the working class can allow a situation that, even made-up and great data, leads us to see workers who are subject to already unsustainable limits of poverty, instability and professional indignity. I would say that we are almost accustomed to the culture of job insecurity as a lesser evil; that is, the important thing is to have a job and it doesn't matter what kind of work it is. We are almost naturally accustomed to a somewhat triumphalistic message knowing that the job being created is temporary, precarious, partial and poorly paid. As human beings and as a society we cannot afford this situation. But this doesn't come out of nowhere. The successive reforms of labour relations have been making hiring more flexible and transforming the collective bargaining structure to give us a picture that I will try to explain in the minutes that I have left. What are the causes of our workers in this situation of precariousness, instability and poverty? First, the abuse of part-time and temporary recruitment. I can say, because I have lived it in the first person - so I avoid being told - that in our labor relations a principle of duality has always been established; that is, there were temporary contracts and there were indefinite contracts. But the current situation is far removed from that duality. A few years ago a person was linked to a company with a temporary contract and there came a time when that person was indefinite, worked full time and earned a full day. The European Union now sees with concern the small transition in our system from temporary contracts to indefinite contracts. Why is this? Basically because we have gone from having a duality to having a trinomial of situations that makes work situations complicated and precarious. I'm going to expose it briefly. We have indefinite contracts, it is true, the Minister always tells us, but those indefinite contracts have been told by the unions that they are unstable, that they are linked to the contract of entrepreneurs and that many of them are part-time. We still have that rate of temporality, that duality in the labour market with a temporality of 25%, the highest since 2008. In addition, older people, we have a situation that is worrying us and that is making workers unable to live from their work: we have more and more short-term temporary contracts. It's sad news. There are more and more contracts lasting less than a week and more and more contracts lasting one day. Do not ask me, as a knowledger of labour law, what contractual status this type of recruitment is covered. These one-day or one-week contracts lead to wage devaluation, lead to extreme poverty among workers, lead to instability, affect the social security fund and affect productivity, because a worker who works in my company one day, as an entrepreneur, I see no need to train or protect him from risks or treat him as a worker with professional dignity. Fedea sees with concern how through the use of these day contracts we are introducing into our system an unplanned contractual modality, which is the zero-hour contract. The European Union even says that, as much as this temporary recruitment has served governments to make up employment data, it is time to put an end to this precariousness by carrying out serious, deep work campaigns and inspections for the purpose of monitoring and sanctioning this type of precarious recruitment. Along with these temporary contracts of a few days, we have partial contracts. Part-time contracts are another symptom of wage devaluation. I mean, imagine you only pay them for half the day. Also, imagine you working the full day. Partiality is growing at a rate that is outpaced. 7 per cent of contracts are part-time, mainly for women and young people, and we also have an involuntary part-time contract. I do not know if you remember that when the part-time contract was first regulated, it was to ensure the reconciliation of family and working life. It's not like that anymore. The part-time contract simply serves as an element of exploitation and precariousness. We have work figures that we never think to contemplate in such a dramatic way. The legitimacy of negotiating company agreements by altering the sector agreement has led companies to outsource the beast. The emergence of multi-service enterprises has also led to precarious working conditions. We have bogus self-government; we have a number of bogus self-governments that are unsustainable; that is, people who only contribute their labour but are discharged into the Special Self-Employers' Regime. We have billing cooperatives. We have a number of figures who come to precarious labour relations. That is why we call for support for our initiative, because we believe that it is necessary once and for all to review legislation, mainly in the area of contracts and collective bargaining, in order to avoid the precariousness of the employment contract. We believe that the Labour Inspectorate should not flourish so much, because we are not gardeners, but ensure that labour relations are balanced and our workers can live with dignity. Not so much part-time work, not so much hours contract, not so much self-employed fake. And so, because we must all believe that our workers must live with dignity, I call for support for our initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u93	Thank you very much, Mrs. De Frutos. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Barandiaran Benito is speaking by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u94	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. I return again to the rostrum, but with a completely different question, not because its recipients are less in need, but because it refers to a debate that has been taking place for too long and in which opinions are being too much faced, too crowded. We are now moving between a motion by the Socialist Party which, with all due respect - as the speaker who has spoken before knows - in some respects seems to be almost a programmatic approach by her party, which in some ways seems to want to remove other interlocutors, and evidence, and is that she has had the virtue, by her particular knowledge of the subject, of putting black on the white, of putting into evidence a situation in which the Government manifests an overly optimistic, almost euphoric, talent of an almost idealized labour market and that it is overcoming certain previous stages that have been undesirable for all. But that's not the point. The question is that, in principle, we are facing the consequences of the application of labour legislation which has had the effect of all these consequences, despite the fact that statistical figures are singing that there is an improvement on this market. And he proposes certain means. Start by talking about changing labor reform. I understand that there have been many labour reforms, which were also fuelled by the Socialist Party itself, and that some of them led to this break in the principle of causation and even the possibility that there were already different types of temporary contracts which, in some ways, also facilitated the precariousness of employment. I therefore understand that, first of all, what needs to be done is to assimilate that, rightly or misguidedly, but the result of the will of many different Governments, there has been a depletion of the labour system as a result of legislation that has proved inadequate to solve many of these problems. It is not a matter of making a statement of grievances, but of reaching conclusions. We need to change a dynamic and, for that, we need to agree. We need to know what the black spots of labor legislation have led us to certain consequences...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u95	Wait a minute, Mr. Barandiaran. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u96	...as loss of the value of wage income. The specific weight of labour income has not only lost weight, but is reflected in the fact that today's paid work has ceased to be a guarantee of economic sufficiency. The ultra-flexibilization of procurement modalities, which has resulted in the precariousness of contracts, leads to situations of abuse and fraud that need reconsideration. That is to say, there is a decausal of the grounds for recruitment and also of dismissal, and this implies, among other things, the undefined consequences of such termination of contract and possibly a precarious situation, especially of young people hired in a bad way. Fraud in temporary recruitment had also led to the same precarious situation as the previous speaker had described. And the massive use of contracts for young people as a formula for lowering other contracts of people who are already in an alternative situation - that of those over fifty-five - has also produced undesirable effects. Finally, there is also a primary cause in all this, which in principle was not referred to in the motion, and it is that relating to collective bargaining. The loss or distortion of the application values in the area of collective bargaining has led to their limited effectiveness and therefore it is necessary to talk about all this again. I therefore understand, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, that what we are talking about is the need to resume the debate on the Workers' Statute. Taking into account all these parameters and their consequences, we have put forward an alternative, an amendment to your motion; we would like, and would understand that it would be justified, to revisit many of the issues underlying this problem. If the problem is labour law - and the fact is that the succession of changes that have occurred on labour contracts in this country has had an undesirable effect - then let's talk about it, but let's talk about changing it. And let us talk about changing it, but in a legislative tone, because it is good to come here and propose motions, it is good to make non-legislative proposals urging the government to act in one way or another, but if the government does not act, at some point we will have to agree with those we have another point of view to make proposals but already of order and legislative nature. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u97	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. Mr Roldán Monés has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u98	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, whenever I read Socialist Party motions and GNP on employment I have the feeling of moving in thirty years ago. Today again I find myself in a similar situation. In Spain we have a huge challenge with the labour market: we are still, with 18% unemployment, the second OECD country with the most unemployed; we have a record of duality and temporality, after Poland, in the European Union; we have more than a million young people who are still unemployed; we have 90% - nine out of ten - of unemployed people who are not taking any job reintegration programmes, that is, they are not being trained; we have, in short, a job model that is a real failure. But surprisingly the Socialist Party comes to offer the same failed answers it has been proposing for thirty-five years; they are exactly the same, it is exactly the same work model. It does not come from yesterday the problem that we have now with unemployment or with temporality; it does not come from yesterday: it is the third time that we have risen above 20% unemployment, thirty years ago that we are the country of Europe with the greatest duality; we have a structural problem with our labour relations. You live in an analog world and the world has changed: we live in globalization and in the digital world, and the Socialist Party, I don't know whether by the influence of Podemos or by trade union inheritance - I don't know what the reason is - is unable to transform your proposals to offer effective answers to the real problems of temporality and unemployment that we have in our country. Derogation of labour reforms until when? Even Zapatero's model? Until before? What, the 28% unemployment rate? What are you getting at? What is the new model you propose? To impose by decree an SMI of 1000 euros? But don't we know that we have to make reforms and be more competitive so that they can raise wages? Do not go up by decree or by signing a paper. I wish we could do it that way. Better inspection? I would love to improve labour inspection, but every year 16 million contracts are signed in Spain because we have Europe's time record. Are you going to put an inspector behind every contract that's signed? [[Applauds]] There is not a single reform in his motion, nor a single proposal to reform the failed system of active policies and labour reintegration. I, I insist, think that in order to respond to the problems we have, and this is the main problem that has been dragging this country forward for thirty years, we must probably offer new policies. We have presented a program - a significant part we agreed with you in the government agreement we made and then the agreement with the People's Party is quite similar - which has three axes. The first is to revolutionize active and training policies. We need serious, modern profiling systems that allow us to know, Mrs De Frutos, first, what is the profile of the unemployed we have, what stands we have in order to be able to adjust to the answers. We are wasting €7 billion each year that goes to waste because we have programmes that do not work and that do not respond to real problems. Then, we have to offer personalized guidance systems to the unemployed in order to be able to help them effectively, not giving the money without offering any evaluation afterwards to any program that is lent. We have an approved training check that is budgeted to jump to intermediaries that obviously do not work to provide opportunities for workers. Approve that training check, summarise what we have managed to take away from the People's Party for the benefit of the workers. We have to end - second axis - the injustice suffered by temporary workers in our country. The dual system that we have systematically discriminates against temporary workers, young people and the elderly, all of them; it is the system that you are defending and I have not just understood why, I have not just understood why you are clearly against offering better opportunities to those who begin to stop finding a wall to have job stability. And finally, a wage supplement to dignify wages and also offer a progression of training and real reintegration to the unemployed. It's a model we don't share. We have proposed some amendments that you do not accept and therefore we will not support your motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Roldán. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, I have the floor, Mrs Salud Areste.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion we are debating today is extremely important...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u101	Wait a minute, Mrs. Health. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u102	Thank you, President. He said that the motion we are debating today is extremely important for our country because job insecurity and temporary employment is already a reality. From here we mean, however, that we do not resign ourselves to that model change that the elites want to normalize, that we will continue to resist and fight for a dignified life showing that there are alternatives. Today we do it here, in Congress, and every day we have been doing it in an organized way also in the streets. This motion by the Socialist Group contains aspects that our Confederal Group of the United People's Party shares, although it does not seem sufficient to us; that is why we have tabled a number of amendments with a frankly constructive spirit that will be accepted. The reality out there is extremely difficult for the working social majority. We are told of recovery and, however, the day-to-day people do not see it, although the Minister of Employment, Mrs Báñez, strives to present us with a satisfactory picture by making up the figures in a bold way. Maybe it's because you don't know the reality of your environment or maybe because you're so proud to represent the elites of this country that you already share a bubble and don't get out of it. One per cent of this country lives better than before the crisis, because while wage incomes have devalued and lost weight in national income, capital incomes have gained ground. That 1% now accumulates 20% of wealth, when in 2011 it accumulated 17%; they are really scandalous figures. Your ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party know that the increase in unemployment in more than 56 000 people in October is yet another sign of the failure of your Government, which has not been able to turn the growth of gross domestic product into job creation. Here are the data, 12,000 more people stopped than a year ago, less than 10% of registered contracts are indefinite, and among them less than 5% are full-time. The job that is created is of such low quality that it is impossible to talk about economic recovery, because you know it well, there are more workers and more workers, but less work and above are poorer. This October indicators were presented that told us that already 30% of all people considered at risk of poverty and social exclusion turn out to be working. The most vulnerable groups in our country, such as women, boys and girls, or non-community foreigners, are widely and severely punished in their material conditions of life. However, ladies and gentlemen, we are a country with excellent potential, with wealth, with a social fabric capable of starting to reverse this unjust situation of inequality and ill-living. Again, precarious work has a woman's face too. The gender gap in terms of unemployment has widened. Last August it closed with half a million more women targeted in the Public Service of State Employment. In addition to this, women who find employment are worse off, less paid and part-time. This is not what we say, ladies and gentlemen of the Government. The European Commission, in its 2017 report on Spain, tells us that the levels of poverty and inequality in Spain are among the highest in the European Union. We are not talking about any revolutionary organization, not even an NGO. It is the European Commission that continues to say that economic expansion does not translate into social progress. We are talking about about 13 million people in our country at risk of poverty and social exclusion, 28% of the population. This report also tells us that the phenomenon of poor women workers is related to part-time contracts, low hourly wages and low employment intensity of Spanish families. [[Rumors]] In the face of this picture we must act quickly and constructively. That is why we have recorded a number of amendments to the motion tabled by the Socialist Group. Firstly, we have proposed repealing the 2010 labour reform, that of the Socialist Party Government, in order to put an end to the unlimited chaining of temporary contracts and because, like the 2012 one, it has promoted precariousness, partial and low-quality employment. We have proposed to move forward with regulatory changes for indefinite recruitment, so that this is the usual way of accessing employment. In the youth field, we have tabled an amendment to put an end to false interns. - I'm finishing up, Mr. President. We cannot escape that we are faced with a motion which, if adopted, will urge the Government to do a number of things that it does not want to do; we know that, but for us and for the people, it is essential that this which is to be adopted today is landing in effective measures in concrete legislation, in political actions that not only resist, but also reverse an unjust, unequal model that wants to condemn us to precariousness and evil living by trying to normalize what is injustice. [[Rumors]] I'm done. That is why from here we manifest that we are not only going to resist, but that this battle for a dignified life we are going to win. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u103	Thank you very much, Mrs. Health. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Socialist Group is proposing a motion that the Government should stick to itself and revoke the employment creation strategy that has allowed Spain, at present, to be one of the countries in Europe where more jobs are being generated and that we should gradually move closer to the objective set by Mariano Rajoy in his investiture of reaching 20 million workers in 2020. Forum supports the Government in its policy of job creation and we renew the confidence in the measures that have been promoted since the 2012 reform, which was the one that allowed to stop the unusual bloodbath of jobs that was tearing Spain apart until then. Therefore, it should not be forgotten that the Socialist Party had appeared in the general elections of 2008 under the slogan 'For full employment', and that less than four years later it left the labour market in Spain made an erial, with more than three million people dragged and condemned to unemployment as a consequence of an erratic socialist policy, lack of rigour and lack of common sense. [[Shows a photo of Mr. Rodriguez Zapatero with that motto]] If we carry out what is intended by this motion, the working Spain would return to the steps with a Copernican turn of the current employment policies and we tell it from Asturias, where there is a socialist autonomous government that in the last five years has plunged the community into a great decadence as it proves that, while in Spain unemployment was reduced by 24.87%, in Asturias in the same period only 18.18%, more than 6 points of difference. We are the community that we occupy the last place in the labour force survey year after year, that is, people who are working or looking for work. Therefore, being absolutely priority and urgent the creation of more and better employment, you will understand that with such a socialist baggage, in Spain and in Asturias, we reject the recipes and formulas that are trying to promote with this egregious initiative that would return us to a harmful stage for workers and businesses. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u105	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor now.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We were able to hear last Wednesday the triumphant intervention of the Minister of Labour in her line, without dispensing, and today the report of the Observatory of Research on Poverty and Social Exclusion in the Valencian Community has been published; an observatory that is formed by entities that are not suspicious of sympathizing with us: the Catholic University Cardinal Herrera, Caritas - with which we are attuned - and the Foessa Foundation. This report tells us that the poverty rate in the Valencian Community affects four out of ten workers, which has grown from 30 to 40% in the past year and affects six out of ten unemployed. It also says that in the case of the Valencian unemployed their situation is aggravated by the fact that the instruments of the welfare State are below the average of the Spanish State. If some of us talk about fair funding, if some of us are going to manifest this Saturday in Valencia - all except the People's Party - it is precisely because of situations like this. In 2017 nine out of ten jobs that have been created are part-time and 35% are also temporary. Of course we will vote in favour of this proposal from the Socialist Group. We need to reverse reforms of the People's Party, such as labour reform. We need effective measures against job insecurity, against the abuse of time, against part-time work and to strengthen collective bargaining, but it seems to me that the minister and the PP government are not going to pay much attention. The truth is, I don't see that Minister Fatima Báñez is much for the work of taking this motion into account. In fact, we have virtually not reversed any of the anti-social and economic laws passed in the legislature in which the PP had an absolute majority. We're still the same. I'm done. I think that at the end of the 'no' we will spend next week approving the Basque quota and at the beginning of the year the General Budgets of the State, and Mr Rajoy will ensure another year of stay in La Moncloa. In short, life will remain the same. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Madam Queen Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion brought by the Socialist Group today proposes to repeal, inter alia, labour reform and labour reform cannot be repealed because it is the motion that has allowed 70% of the more than three million jobs lost with the Socialist Party to be recovered. Labour reform has allowed Spain to lead job creation in Europe and to double the euro area average. It is the labour reform that has allowed three thousand jobs to be created every day and it is the one that has allowed Spain to be the country that has fallen the most unemployment throughout the European Union. [[Applauds]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to repeal labour reform, we are not going back to the policies of the past, to the policies of the left with which a thousand and five hundred daily jobs were destroyed. You talk about raising wages, of course you have to raise them, but we will respect the social partners who are the ones who have to raise and set wages in this country. With regard to the interprofessional minimum wage, we are already tired of their false promises. You promised to raise it to 800 euros and the minimum wage is 707 euros and because the People's Party government has made the biggest rise in history. They speak of temporality and precariousness, but, ladies and gentlemen, if it was the 1984 reform of the Socialist Party that broke the principle of causality in temporary contracts, do you not remember the garbage contracts of the 1980s? Or don't you remember the endless concatenation of temporary contracts? [[Applauds]] That is what has given rise to temporality, ladies and gentlemen. Since the labor reform 7 points the temporality in our country has fallen. They talk about labor exploitation and that sanctions must be increased, but I tell them to talk to their partner Susana Díaz. The Andalusian Health Service, the SAS, has sanctioning files opened for contributions of less than 5,000 workers; it is an administration that should set an example, and is abusing workers. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there are no lessons to be learned in the field of labour exploitation. Ladies and gentlemen, they are also talking about making a shock plan for youth employment, but I have to remind you of learning contracts without any kind of social coverage. You managed to raise the youth unemployment rate from 15 to 50%. As a result of the labour reform, the youth unemployment rate has dropped by 15 points. Ladies and gentlemen, they are talking about active employment policies and, curiously, this year's budget for active employment policies has risen by more than 6% and is awaiting approval in the Council of Ministers of the new Spanish employment activation strategy 2017-2020. I would be ashamed to be in the Socialist Party and ask for an increase in active employment policies because then, when they govern, they don't spend it on them. At the Board of Andalusia they have had to return EUR 1 billion of training, from active employment policies, because since 2012 there has been no training in Andalusia, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] The unemployed cannot be trained to reintegrate into the labour market, then it seems to me to be the height of the shame that - according to a media outlet today - the Socialist Party in Andalusia is asking for EUR 1 billion from Rajoy for a training plan; that is the height of shame. [[Rumors]] As far as quality in employment is concerned, let me give you some data. Since the recovery all the jobs recovered are full-time. Moreover, part-time employment has declined by more than 20,000 people. 90 per cent of indefinite employment has already been recovered and only 50 per cent of temporary employment destroyed, i.e. indefinite employment is recovering faster than temporary employment. In addition, something unprecedented is happening, we have been continuously increasing the number of undefined recruitment for forty-five months, ladies and gentlemen. This had never happened in our country. According to the latest EPA, the third-quarter EPA, for the first time in ten years, indefinite contracts are more than temporary contracts. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u109	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u110	That is why, ladies and gentlemen, more than 74% of Spaniards have an indefinite contract, 7 points more than at the beginning of the recovery, and that is why contracts of less than one month constitute only 0.89%. I'm done, Mr. President. I am convinced that much remains to be done, for sure, but something we will be doing well when this year 2017 is consolidated as the best year for employment, with 581,000 jobs created in what goes from January to October, 15% more than in 2016. There are already, ladies and gentlemen, 19 million, 19 million Spaniards working in this country, something that has not happened since 2008. We will reach the twenty million, ladies and gentlemen, and I ask you to raise your shoulder to reach those twenty million occupied, whether you like it or not, you have said: say the unions, say the unions. Well, I say that a friend of mine says that when socialists talk about employment, workers and citizens run away. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Spain. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mrs De Frutos Madrazo whether her group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u112	Yeah, we're gonna vote on a transactional with the PNV and Podemos. We've already passed the text.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u113	Thank you very much, we will take this into account for the vote. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States may, in common, on measures of extra-ordinary support for the andalucía and extremadura field and the state as a consequence of the effects of the drought. [[File number 173/000061]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u114	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on extraordinary support measures for the possible workers of the Andalucía and Extremadura camp, and of the whole State, as a result of the effects of the drought. For the author group of the initiative, Mr Cañamero Valle has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. I would not like to interrupt the speaker in order to reiterate this request, which I see is not very successful at the outset. [[Rumors]] Begin, Mr. Cañamero.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u115	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. On 16 May we brought to this House a proposal which was rejected and which called for the amendment of a number of regulations relating to the field of Andalusia and Extremadura. Today, again, we are bringing back an initiative and I hope that on this occasion it will be accepted by this House, because there are more than a million agricultural workers waiting for this measure. It is not that we are going to save them from their poverty, from the situation they are in, but we can alleviate them, and that is why it is very important that we be able to adopt this regulation that will alleviate the situation of the workers. It is not the topic of drought that has really damaged 90% of the problems that are dragging the workers, which in the rest of Spain are more than one million, but that especially in Andalusia and Extremadura affects 80% of all workers. In Andalusia there are large landowners, but nobody wants to talk or nobody wants to hear these things, but in Andalusia 2% of the owners have 50% of the whole land, 50%. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u116	Wait a minute, Mr. Cañamero. One moment, please. [[Pause]] Go on, Mr. Cañamero.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u117	It said that 2 per cent of the landowners have 50 per cent of the land; there are entrepreneurs who have 50 000 hectares, 60 000, 20 000, 5000, 10 000 hectares. That's an insult to people's intelligence, because the land, as you will understand, is not a washing machine, a television, a road, a bridge or a car; the land has not been invented by anyone, has it not?The earth is like the sun, like the air or like the water, are gifts of nature, and for believers they will be gifts of God, but no one has made it, so that these lords have so much land condemning thousands of workers to hardship and an unbearable situation. [[Applauds]] There has been no agrarian reform in Andalusia or Extremadura, there has been no agrarian reform, and those are the consequences. Mechanization has also made a dent in the Andalusian countryside, as there is no processing industry and mechanization has been left to many people without any kind of solution. Nor has there been an interest in a social culture, the monoculture. Large landowners do not mind having a productive land because, among other reasons, they have so many lands that conform with what the harvest gives them and with what they receive from the Community agricultural policy; they receive millions and millions of euros in exchange for nothing, because nothing is given to them, it is like ordinary expenses, they receive money and it is already, regardless of the poverty situation of a region, of a province, of Andalusia, of Extremadura or of any corner; they do not care because they have enough money. In addition, I have to say that these big entrepreneurs are not required to be pawned, they are not required to have that money, which is public, coming from Europe, reinvested in the processing industry, in the creation of jobs, in social crops and in the respect of the environment; they are not required to do anything; they are only required to have an aerial photo of the satellites to say: have you sown it? Enough, you take, 3 million euros, House of Alba; you take, tell other great landowners such as the Urquijo, the Domecq, the Bohórquez, the Terry, and also some others who have sat in these armchairs, such as Arias Cañete or the family of Arias Cañete. The CAP is unfair. It is true that to this must be added the issue of the drought that, in addition to the hardship that the workers are suffering, is making blemish in the farmers and the laborers. In fact it is not a year of drought, we have already been four or five years and the swamps, the reservoirs are 20%, 16%, and there is not even water for farmers to water, so by not watering the farmers, they are the injured but also the labour force. Millions of newspapers have been lost and we are not talking about anything, millions of newspapers in Andalusia, Extremadura and the rest of the state, millions of newspapers, and when there are no newspapers, the workers cannot take that newspaper home. We therefore need to implement a series of important measures that will give at least a little hope to this historically ill-treated, ill-treated sector. Do you know there are no contracts in the field? Do you know that in the field you are simply hired by phone and they say to you: Tomorrow you come to the cut and the day after tomorrow the cut is finished, and there is no responsibility of the company with that worker? Do you know what it's like to take olives by pulling a wet cloth from your fingernails because it weighs a lot when the dew falls at night? Do you know what it's like to take oranges soaked in water? Do you know what it's like to take asparagus in Navarre with the flashlight on the forehead or the strawberries in Huelva? Do you know what it is to get up at five in the morning and walk 150 kilometers by car looking for a newspaper in one of the richest lands in Europe that is Andalusia and that has never developed?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Applauds]] Do you know what that means? It is necessary to dignify the lives of the people, the lives of the workers!, and this Congress and this House must serve to implement measures that restore dignity to the workers and the people, and we can do so because it does not cost money what we are proposing - a little bit of the measures - but what we are going to propose here does not cost any cents. We are calling for the elimination of the requirement for pedestrians, we are not asking for a new thing because in 1992 and 1993 the Socialist Party already applied the cancellation of these newspapers, and the People's Party has lowered them in some years from 35 to 20; they were 90 before and 120 and it is already 35. Now, in the face of the drought, we propose that this requirement should be annulled, that workers should be entitled to these miserable 426 euros, which is what we have left behind because there has been no Government that has implemented employment policies in Andalusia or made any kind of agricultural reform or created jobs! That is why we are now calling for the requirement of the peonadas to be removed so that people can receive this unemployment benefit. We also propose the cancellation of Social Security, that the agricultural stamp, which is paid to 94.94 every month, be cancelled during the duration of the drought or that workers be sentenced to social security.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u118	Stop it.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u119	One second, President, I'll be done soon. The third point is the increase of the PER, which is called Profea, which is not only in Andalusia and Extremadura, but in six other communities. It is in the Canary Islands, Murcia, Valencia, Aragon, Castile-La Mancha and Castile and León plus Andalusia and Extremadura. In these eight communities we propose to increase the funds of the PER, which is now called Profea. In Andalusia and Extremadura it serves for the workers to have a newspaper and, at the same time, these newspapers are worth to them in order to be able to apply for the agrarian income and the agrarian subsidy. The PER in Andalusia is fundamental, because when it was invented in 1983 it was like an income for the workers, to help people get their newspapers, but it was also for infrastructure for the municipalities, for the settlement of streets, of sports and of ambulatory. Even Civil Guard barracks have arranged with the PER in Andalusia! It's important that you stay. These are the measures we are proposing today, and I hope that in this House the political parties will agree on these measures for rural workers, agricultural workers, because they need it, because it is important and because they expect it as water in May. I therefore call for a vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Cañamero. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes, which will also fix a position on this occasion, Mr Candela Serna.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u121	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to show, as it cannot be otherwise, support for this initiative, because we believe that rural workers are a group of the utmost importance to our economy and require the full protection of this Parliament. I'm already in advance of you, Mr. Cañamero, yes. That is why, since our formation, we have introduced amendments to this motion, in order to respond to the effects of drought also in other places such as the province of Alicante. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u122	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, I come from the south, from an arid but worthy land, from a land that is worth taking care of because our people are worth taking care of. Today we are being asked for help from those who need it most: our farmers. Today we need the Government to give an effective response to the needs of those who live in the countryside, those who, as Mr Cañamero has rightly said, are rising up to feed us. From Compromís we want to bring to this House the main demands of agriculture, of the farmers of Alicante who are suffering from an atrocious drought. And we bring him to this House because it seems that the government gives him exactly what's going on. Says the manifesto of the Central Regiment Union of Alicante: There are viable and environmentally sustainable solutions, we don't talk about chimeras, and they are all presented to the ministry. We expect answers. I will report four very concrete proposals: to maximize the efficiency of the Torrevieja desalinizer and to operate the one of Muchamiel; to take advantage of the waters of the Xúquer through the exploration of disabling formulas or the repair of the San Diego ferry in Villena; contributions from the ministry to promote the saving and water efficiency in our fields and, fundamentally, to modify the agreement of the Council of Ministers of 9 June 2017 to eliminate the unjust tax of 100 euros per hectare that our farmers have to pay regardless of the production they make. These are some measures. I'd like to finish... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u124	One moment, Mr. Candela, one moment. Ladies and gentlemen, please, I beg your silence. I told you at the beginning of this debate. You have no idea what noise is heard from here; I imagine those who are attentive will know. You have no idea what work it costs you, when you are presiding, to interrupt the speaker in order to repeat something that we should all know and have taken very seriously. Please, be quiet. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u125	Thank you. I'm done. Mr Cañamero, you will always have the maximum support and solidarity of Compromís with the Andalusian countryside - a grandson of farmers - but we ask you to accept our amendments so that this solidarity is reciprocal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Candela. For the Socialist Group, Mr Jiménez Tortosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Again, we are debating a subject of utmost importance for the workers of the Andalusian and Extreme countryside. The Spanish Socialist Workers' Party advocates protecting workers, improving their conditions and rights and restoring the dignity of those people who work in the countryside, because we were the ones who established this protection system twenty-five years ago. The situation of the extremist and Andalusian workers is extremely serious in view of the lack of work in the countryside. Mechanization, which is increasingly used in broad agricultural sectors, such as olive groves, is changing the socio-occupational reality of the primary sector. There are fewer and fewer days in the sector. For all day laborers the situation is unjustly complicated, but it affects women and the elderly much more dramatically. This situation is aggravated by the drought phase. We have already had five consecutive years of drought and you have not taken a single measure in favour of the workers. Whenever such a situation has occurred, the socialist governments have acted urgently. How? Eliminating or reducing the number of pedestrians and implementing extraordinary employment programmes. However, in order for Rajoy's government to reduce in 2013 the peonadas needed many mobilizations and petitions from the unions, mayors and mayors, who saw how their neighbors came to them in a desperate situation for not having any size or right to protection precisely at a stage of cuts in the policies of the People's Party. Mrs Báñez seemed to need the pleas of the Andalusian people and the extremists to access to reduce to twenty peonadas, but she never put in place an extraordinary employment plan. How long are we gonna have to wait? This year the drought and the lack of harvest are more than evident. Mrs Báñez, take action when it is necessary, and it is already necessary. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has been calling for this for a long time. There is a need for the elimination of drought-stricken peonadas and, of course, an extraordinary employment plan. It's necessary and you know it. Now that the big economic figures are going well, let the small economy of rural workers also go well. Ladies and gentlemen, I am Andalusian - Almerian - and those of us who know the reality of the rural world know what these employment plans have meant in terms of fixing the population on the ground and improving the rehabilitation of infrastructure and buildings in our villages. The criticisms of those who do not know the reality of rural territory indicate insensitivity, which is what characterizes the People's Party, which has almost never been sensitive to the problems of the countryside in general and in particular those of the Andalusian and Extreme countryside. The People's Party attacked the agrarian subsidy, introducing the agrarian income with a cut in unemployment benefits at the time of Aznar, with an Andalusian in the lead, Minister Javier Arenas, but now wants to give her the dot Mariano Rajoy, with an Andalusian in the lead, Fatima Báñez. How? Not setting out extraordinary employment plans and not increasing funds, imposing death by starvation of the same. Ultimately, further work is needed to consolidate the agricultural subsidy and agricultural income into a single protection system, to ensure that all unemployed persons performing agricultural work have the same rights and the same level of protection. The Government should urgently open a social dialogue table with the Ministry of Employment and Social Security, the most representative social partners and the Autonomous Communities of Andalusia and Extremadura. The aim is to set up a single new benefit called agricultural unemployment benefit for workers living in the Autonomous Communities of Andalusia and Extremadura. The table will analyse the problems of working people in the Andalusian and Extreme fields, the special difficulties faced by people over fifty-two years of age, in order to ensure their coverage until they have access to retirement pensions, and of working women, in order to identify the main obstacles hindering their employment and thus their access to the benefit. The conclusions of this panel should be referred to the Toledo Pact Monitoring and Evaluation Commission. This is what we ask. Mr Cañamero, we are going to work with the social and economic actors so that from dialogue and consensus we can get the PP government to sit on the negotiating table, improve living conditions and regain the dignity of the workers in the countryside, which is what interests us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Jiménez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Calvente Gallego has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today I appeal to the responsibility of your ladies and gentlemen to treat with the utmost objectivity, with due seriousness and with the necessary rigour the issue that brings us here, which is the adoption of extraordinary measures to support the eventual workers of the countryside in Andalusia and Extremadura as a result of the effect of the drought. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot obviate the sensitivity of this Government, this parliamentary group and the People's Party itself to the possible workers in the countryside throughout the national territory, especially in Andalusia and Extremadura. It was not only this government of President Rajoy that lowered the peonadas twice in the 2012 and 2014 campaigns with both royal decreesleys launched in the years 2013 and 2015, but it was also a government of the People's Party that promulgated and approved Royal Decree 5/1997 of 10 January, regulating the unemployment benefit in favour of potential workers of the Special Agrarian Social Security Regime. It was also a Government of the People's Party that passed Royal Decree 426/2003 of 11 April, regulating the agricultural income for potential workers included in the Special Agrarian Social Security Regime resident in the Autonomous Communities of Andalusia and Extremadura. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the People's Party, since April 2003 a new specific benefit has been created, in the framework of the action to protect unemployment, called agricultural income, for potential agricultural workers who are unemployed and cannot benefit from the subsidy. The governments of Mariano Rajoy have not only not stopped taking measures to generate wealth and employment for all Spaniards and for rural workers, but day after day both the Ministry of Employment and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance make decisions that protect and help all farmers and farmers in Spain. As you all know them well and for the sake of brevity, I will not repeat each and every one of them exhaustively in this rostrum. Just remember the private storage of olive oil, the reform of the common agricultural policy, the reduction of peonadas, the reduction of the modules, the increase in the budget for agricultural insurance, the access to finance and the advance of 70% of direct aid to the common agricultural policy and 85% of rural development aid, which has allowed farmers and farmers in Spain today to have in their pocket more than 3280 million euros, 960 million euros for Andalusia, my land, and 230 million euros for Jaén. Ladies and gentlemen, to a greater extent, I would like to convey the firm and continuing commitment of the People's Parliamentary Group to the Spanish, Andalusian and Far East countryside. It has been the governments of the People's Party that have allocated the most resources to the programme for the promotion of agricultural employment. Just to reach the Government, in 2012, under the worst possible conditions, we have increased this programme. It serves as an example that in Andalusia we went from 142 million to 147 million. This year we have increased 3% in Andalusia, with 152 million euros, as well as in Extremadura and in the depressed rural areas of Aragon, the Canary Islands, Castile-La Mancha, Castile and León, the Valencian Community and Murcia. Ladies and gentlemen, today it does not touch confrontation, it touches reflection, and I only ask the members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the proponent of the United Parliamentary Group Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea as in 2012 and 2014, with more adverse climatic circumstances, with a production in my land, in 2012, of 61% less of the price - calculated by the Andalucia Board last days - and of 37% less in 2014, all the political groups agreed to reduce the peonadas from thirty-five to twenty, and today, with better forecasts than those indicated in 2012 and 2014, you ask for the elimination of the peonadas. The answer to your change of proposal portrays you, but today what we must do all the political forces that we make up this House is to set an example, to comply with the law, to respect the drought plans of 2007, which are in force in the basins of Guadalquivir and Guadiana, in Andalusia and Extremadura, to analyze as always with seriousness and rigour the climatic circumstances of this year; to wait, once the analysis has been done, for the corresponding official certification to be issued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment, convening the table of the social dialogue of the field and listening to the social partners of the field, and to reach, as always, the reduction of the peonadas, if appropriate. For all that, we believe that the only possible way is for you to unanimously approve our amendment to this motion, which urges the Government to assess, within the framework of the social dialogue - once the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment has found the existence of economic or labour losses in the agricultural sector of such magnitude and gravity as to make it necessary to repair the damage caused by weather conditions - the possibility of reducing the minimum number of actual days paid in order to access the unemployment benefit or the agricultural income in favour of the potential agricultural workers affected by the drought. Ladies and gentlemen, we will reach consensus. If voted separately, in relation to the measures of the moratorium and taking into account the newspapers of the agricultural promotion and employment programme, it may be assumed. I conclude by saying that in this matter there are no shortcuts, but that we must continue to assume our responsibilities, which are nothing more than to continue creating wealth and employment as we are doing and to ensure to the eventual workers of the countryside in Andalusia and Extremadura that no one is going to stay out of the subsidy or agricultural income. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Calvente. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u131	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Cañamero, we have always been sensitive to situations of need and, therefore, vote in favour of the proposal you have made. We've always done it. I say this because following your intervention last day, in the interpellation, we began to look and, indeed, you were right. In 1996, as a result of the drought, a similar situation arose which led to the adoption of a royal decree-law which took similar or parallel measures to those to be adopted here today. That is why, Mr Cañamero, you are going to allow me to remind you that, since we are going to vote in favour and that our attitude of support for situations of need is constant, our critical support for such actions has also been constant. I say this because, in principle, in your speech you have highlighted some facts which, in your opinion, cause this situation which, of course and as always, we call structural. The drought may be in some way short-term, although it is already going on for five years, but the situation of the workers, the situation of support for the workers in the countryside is a structural issue for not twenty but forty years in Andalusia. You have highlighted a number of specific elements and we ask you to put into practice the possible solutions that must be available. You referred, as a cause, to the existence of an accumulation of land, and you also referred to the existence of a particular area, that of land reform, which had not been encouraged. You come to this Congress, or rather you go to the Parliament of Andalusia, which has competence in this matter, as the Constitutional Court has already acknowledged, in order to be able to do some action in this regard. You said that the CAP is another added problem, because the aid is not well targeted. He said that 80 per cent of them will stop at 20 per cent of the owners. Well, bring concrete reforms to the CAP so that they can be dealt with before the European Union and that, in fact, these large landowners are not worthy of any kind of attention. You also said that the distribution of social security contributions is wrong, because the distribution of work does not address concrete measures in which one can obtain a result so that everyone can work and obtain this type of distribution. Well, bring measures here, too, or, if necessary, present them in Andalusia, so that you can do that. What we are talking about is a situation of structural deficit which, not today but for forty years, has not been taken effective measures. That is, in the well-understood case that such measures should be taken under rather majority agreements. That is why, with regard to your specific proposal, first of all, we are going to support the elimination of the situation of the peonadas, but we would not agree with this. Why? Because we are not talking about social assistance, as the minister also reminded us last day; that is, address social assistance and the area of work the replacement of wages. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u132	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u133	You asked for a moratorium on social security contributions and we can agree, but also address active employment policies so that it is not the social security area that supports these amounts. And you were talking about the enlargement of the Profea - all right - so that the work can be distributed. Well, make a census of workers who can complete all of these jobs, and we will also agree with that. But please bring concrete measures here and take them also to the Parliament in Andalusia, where they can be implemented, because I repeat that this situation you have described is serious, structural and needs solutions, not today, but for many years now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u134	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, I have the floor Mr Salvador i Duch. Before the next speaker starts, I would ask you, please, to silence the cell phones and, if you are going to receive calls, at least not to hear them from the rest of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u135	Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon to everyone. First of all, Diego, a memory for my friend Andrés Bódalo, Andalusian political prisoner, for whose freedom we fight and claim from this very rostrum, as we also fight for the freedom of Catalan political prisoners. [[Applauds]] And Diego, cheer up, because being picketed on a strike is not a crime, it's an honor. So, lots of cheers. [[Applauds]] From Catalonia, we Catalan Republicans take advantage of this rostrum to show our full solidarity with the more than 150,000 Andalusian and extremist workers, who have as their only income the agricultural subsidy; less than 450 euros a month for only six months a year. In the meantime, as you have said before, four of the seven largest fortunes in Andalusia are among those receiving the greatest aid from the European Union through the common agricultural policy, the CAP. Millions of people receive aid, such as the real estate speculator Nicolás Osuna, the Mora-Figueroa family, the house of Alba and a long et cetera; aid that is often used to keep hunting grounds or farms practically unproductive. We were already studying this when we were doing EGB; it has been many years and this problem remains unresolved. We are aware that working conditions are only the tip of the iceberg of an unjust distribution of land. Andalusia has long needed an agrarian reform that makes a fair and productive distribution of the land. Centuries later it remains the large landowner families, as I said, who accumulate the land and the fortunes and who continue to hunt with the Bourbon family and the oligarchs who dominate this state. The daily workers, the Andalusian workers, as well as the Catalan people, have common enemies: the landowners and the usual speculators, who exploit the workers and are involved in the red flag, in the verdiblanca and also in the lady; those who presume patriotism while they have their funds in tax havens; those who send the civilian guards to charge against the daily workers who peacefully occupy the lands they deserve; those who send the Civil Guard against the people who peacefully want to vote freely in Catalonia. They're the same. We share the struggle of the workers in Andalusia for access to the land that allows them to live from their work. Those of us who fight for a Catalan republic are not as they want us to believe, we are not enemies of the Andalusian people; we are not, on the contrary, we are in solidarity with those who fight for a republic throughout Spain, a republic that brings freedom to all peoples, as well as a real agrarian reform, as they deserve. In the meantime, a strong yes, Diego, to your proposals for emergency aid to the workers who have suffered from the drought and to the elimination of the requirements of the peonadas in order to be able to receive the subsidy and other aid that you have very well detailed and explained. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u136	Wait a minute, Mr. Salvador. One moment, please. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, I beg your silence. There are a few ladies and gentlemen whom I know the warnings made by this Presidency do little, but, frankly, if we continue with this level of murmuring, which I believe is one of the highest I have had to listen to so far, I will have to start making personal remarks, which are absolutely unpleasant. Some of your ladies and gentlemen have been speaking outside your seat throughout the sitting, and for that I think the desks and corridors of this House are better than this Chamber, where we have to be listening to the speaker. I ask you, please, to leave the Chamber and go out and keep those talks out, because, if not, I will have to make personal remarks that I do not want to make. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u137	Thank you very much. It seems that some are not very interested in the issue of the laborers, and I see that others who are asking for our wages all afternoon have not come. I haven't seen Mr. Girauta or Mr. Rivera in a while. [[Applauds]] And some around here, too. We would have to start comparing interventions, because equally in productivity we beat up many of those who are here. [[Applauds]] If not, we look at the number of interventions. We can compare them: 106; some here don't even carry 47. What's the point? As I was saying... [[Rumors]] Extreme right. As I was saying, Mr Cañamero, we are in solidarity with those who fight for a republic throughout Spain, a republic that brings freedom for all peoples and is not a prison of peoples and that brings true agrarian reform. Meanwhile, a strong yes, as I told you, Diego, to your proposals for aid, emergency to the workers who have suffered from the drought, to the elimination of the requirements of the peonadas in order to be able to receive the subsidy and other aid. Thank you very much. Long live Andalucia free! [[applause of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, with Mr Rufián Romero standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to begin my speech by mentioning the last speaker, but as Andalusian I am ashamed that you have to say 'free Andalusia!', when you already want to have an autonomous community like ours, in which people can freely manifest themselves and show those political positions they want without any kind of coercion or social pressure. [[Applauds]] You have said here what your scale is when you say what a political prisoner is. For you a political prisoner is a person who beats a pregnant woman, that is its scale to measure what a political prisoner is For me a political prisoner is what my colleague Diego Clemente said, what Amnesty International says, which is what he has said that at the moment in Spain and Catalonia there are no political prisoners. [[Applauds]] [[The lady]] I am going to try to focus on my speech because I think it is important right now. Mr Cañamero, I can agree with you on the subject of drought, I agree that from 1 October to 1 May we had only 56% of water storage, a water that was 74% in the last five years and 70% on average in the last ten years. If we see the map we have right now, that average level of storage has had to go down ostensibly. [[Show a map]] I would like to ask the People's Party whether when it puts 31.7% in the Andalusian Mediterranean basin it is also counting on the rule dam, because now that we are in drought we have the largest unused pool in Europe, when we are precisely saying that water is also needed for our farmers. [[Applauds]] Mr Cañamero, I could totally agree with you that unemployment in Andalusia is absolutely unbearable, but we are at a rate of 17.1% at national level, at 25.4% still at Andalusia level and we have reached 35%. The unemployment rate for women is 28.4 per cent; the youth unemployment rate is 46 per cent. Therefore, I can agree with you that that is a big problem and that something has not worked. As the Socialist Group has said, this aid has been maintained for 25 years and something in the system has not worked when we have not been able to reduce those unemployment rates at the moment in our community. I can also say that for Andalusia the agricultural sector is very important, I can say that the agricultural population is much higher in Andalusia than the rest, I can say that agricultural production is a quarter of that produced throughout the country and that Andalusian agricultural income is one third in relation to that of the country. I can agree with you that the agri-food sector accounts for 8% of our community's gross domestic product, 10% of employment, and that, therefore, it is something to bet on, or that, for example, we can look at both with optimism how in the last two years many young people have joined at this time to continue with the agricultural profession to which their parents were also dedicated. Therefore, not everything is going to be bad in that sense, Mr Cañamero. It is a sector that has billed 88 billion euros in 2016 and has increased agricultural production by about 5%; therefore, everything is not so bad and we cannot give that image of Andalusia permanently, an Andalusia that you condemn when you try to get people an income for life without worrying about improving the productive model, which is what really has to raise the quality of life in the villages. [[Applauds]] Mr Cañamero, the CAP made a promise to all Spanish farmers, he said it would improve their average income. We have to promote family farming, we have to modernise farms, irrigation, industries, we have to make an increasingly balanced chain, but if what we want is to improve the quality of life in our rural area - because we are an intermediate region, because we have 32% of the population in rural areas - we will have to provide our rural population with communications that will allow them access to all basic services, to a hospital, to the fire department or to any other at any time that is absolutely reasonable. We need to improve communications, we need to improve in this new era, where to be able to produce a company you don't have to set up an industry. And we also have to bet on the industry in Andalusia, we have to bet on the education of our young people in rural areas to include knowledge, as the PSOE was trying to do with the second modernization of Andalusia. We cannot continue with the same formulas saying that to maintain a subsidy we have to do it for life, that there is the solution to be able to win and regain the dignity of the Andalusian countryside. Mr Cañamero, I encourage the People's Party and the Socialist Party, which have now moved from 'and you more' to 'and I more', to defend that each one had implemented more measures, to reconsider how we want life to be in urban centres, to see how we can really raise the quality of life, because if communications work, both roads and knowledge, there will be an opportunity to undertake and there will also be an opportunity to access basic services. And if we improve our productive sector, make it competitive, export and make the workforce profitable, then we won't be talking about the same people you're talking about when you're talking about the Andalusian countryside. It's been a long time without updating the clock. It is true that there are many problems, which is why we will also be working on the amendment that you have tabled to this effect in this bill which comes to apply measures against drought, but to propose it here at this time, in this motion as a result of questioning, seems to us to be a populist measure that gives a misconception of what Andalusia is. That is why we are going to abstain, although here we will really talk about how to improve the quality of life in rural areas. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u140	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Cañamero whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u141	As is often said in Andalusia, we are in agreement with the Socialist Party and we are going to present a compromise.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u142	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u143	We now turn to the last item on the agenda, the item on the opinion of the Joint Committee on Relations with the Court of Auditors on the statement on the General Account of the State for the financial year 2015, and the resolution adopted by that Committee. The Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Bel Accensi, is taking part in the position-setting exercise.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u144	Thank you very much, President. Indeed, we are here to report on the declaration of the State's general account for 2015, not without some delay. In any case, it is time to take stock and, without being exhaustive, to see what conclusions the Court of Auditors and the various parliamentary groups have reached in relation to the 2015 budget implementation. I have said this on other occasions and I repeat it again here, this is a good opportunity for us all to review our speeches when approving the budgets, and also obviously the People's Group, which made it possible to approve these 2015 budgets. I had the opportunity to speak in the debate at the time in the Senate and I am not going to recommend reading my speeches because it would obviously not be prudent, but I am going to remind you of some of the issues that we have highlighted. Go ahead that, as every year, it must be noted that the general account of the State is formulated, and in it, of the 392 entities that should be integrated, there are only 381. Some of you may say: man!, only eleven entities is not much either. It has been improved over previous years, okay, but there are still six entities that had not submitted their annual accounts to the State General Intervention to formulate the general account. I say this because it seems to me that the Minister of Finance is kindly challenging the municipalities, and he is kindly challenging the local corporations and the autonomous communities if they do not comply with the rule of spending, if they do not present the financial economic plan, if they do not do so in time. But the Minister of Finance is responsible for formulating the State's general account without eleven entities having integrated their accounts into it because they have not submitted them. If you are responsible for certain acts and do not do so, with what moral authority will you try to enforce others? I leave this reflection on the table. Without going into details, because I'm not going to tire them out... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u145	One second, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. Half an hour is left and with this murmur you cannot listen to the speaker. Go on, Mr. Bel Accensi.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u146	Income forecast: less collection than expected, IRPF and Social Security. We said this in the budget debate and in addition the Court of Auditors understands that this is a bad practice that has occurred in 2012, 2013 and 2014. Infra or overbudgeting of IRPF and Social Security, we insist. As far as expenses are concerned, I have to make a reference to defence expenses. Initial defence expenditure budget, EUR 5705 million. Credit changes, EUR 2293 million, i.e. 40% credit changes. In 2012, 43%; in 2013, 32%; in 2014, 33%; and in 2015, 40%. I remind you that you have a ruling of the Constitutional Court, the 169/2016, in case you want to consult it, where it is declared unconstitutional the use of decree-laws to convey extraordinary credits in arms financing programs. It reminds them that they do not comply with article 86.1 of the Constitution. Even so, you have continued this budgetary practice. We will see if any new draft State General Budgets are presented to us and if they do the same and undervalue defence spending by 40%. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u147	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ten Oliver has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u148	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The State general account consolidates the annual accounts of the State public sector and its dependent entities. It is the final pin to this budgetary process and allows us to take stock of the economic-patrimonial outcome of the government's management; 2015, the end of the absolute majority of the People's Party. Today I would like to review some of the most serious things that appear in this general account of the State and, in addition, to highlight those motions for resolutions that my parliamentary group has drawn up and tabled. First, although 381 entities consolidate the accounts this year - 97 per cent of the total - it is intolerable that there are public entities that are not transparent and fail to fulfil their obligations of accountability among them, the Commonwealth of Taibilla Canals, the Pía de los Santos Lugares, the San Pedro Castle Consortium, the Ibero-American Foundation for the Promotion of the Culture and Sciences of the Sea, the Foundation for the Development of the Formation of Mining and Coal Areas and the Canary Foundation of Puerto de Las Palmas. Secondly, this statement from the general accounts of the State of 2015 allows us to take stock of the government's management. The People's Party Government is used to saying that it is the only party capable of good economic management and always talks about job creation, even if it is precarious, of course. But squared accounts do it frankly wrong. I quickly explain myself with a few brief facts. The Court of Auditors certifies that during 2015 provisions of the Reserve Fund totalling EUR 13 250 million were made. The PP is the guarantor of pensions but the fact is that these data show that these years have emptied the pension hedge. Another figure is the deficit for non-financial operations, EUR 18 395 million. Non-compliance with the deficit target, from 4.2 to 5.7. This is not a novelty, during 2012, 2013 and 2014 repeatedly failed to meet the deficit targets. Another fact, the income forecasts, were really impossible to meet, not only in tax revenues, but also in social security contributions. We've already warned him and Airef, and now the Court of Auditors is warning him again. Other examples are the bad habits of incorporating special arms programmes with mid-year credit extensions and even a budget closure due to the lack of credit for this poor income forecast. Ladies and gentlemen, on the bright side, these mistakes are no longer happening. The fiscal pact with Citizens forced us to introduce that responsibility and accounting prudence into the 2017 budget, to recover that seny, that Catalan common sense that we so much need these days. Another of the negative pearls are the debts of impossible collection, more than 23 billion euros, while you cut the staff of the Tax Agency, or the debts of Social Security that were never paid with the State Administration for the liquidation of the economic concert, the so-called Basque Cup or coupon. By the way, next week will be discussed here by the urgency procedure, thanks to the PP and the PSOE and Podemos. I ask you, why can't we have fair funding? Why the delay? Finally, I would like to thank the professionalism of the Court of Auditors and the lawyers and the other parliamentary groups who have made it possible to include the majority of our motions for resolutions which comprise the opinion on improving inventories, integrating the foundational sector and the principles of annuality and publicity. However, I regret the refusal to urge the Court of Auditors to automatically include in its control plan those entities I have commented on at the beginning of my intervention, which do not report to this Court. I don't know, maybe we're more used to rewarding those who don't do what they do than punish those who do. Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, they are more likely to do tax amnesty or raise taxes to the middle class and working class in the midst of a crisis. By the way, another good news, this with Citizens is over. From 2017 and 2018 tax cuts such as VAT and IRPF to the most needy people. The Court of Auditors is a key constitutional body, so much so that for decades it has been proposed to bury the control of the court under mountains of paperwork. In short, Citizens are in Congress to end old inertias and achieve a much more modern and efficient management of public resources. Ladies and gentlemen, do not doubt that we will continue to work on this. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u149	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr González García has the floor. Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u150	Today we are dealing here with the 2015 general account, the report on the financial situation and the budgetary implementation of the entire public sector. It is a report that has more than 770 pages and is settled, both in the Commission and in plenary, quite lightly. While we spend two months discussing the General State Budgets, we only spend seven minutes talking about budget execution, as if we could trust this government to manage public accounts. On the subject, the first issue to be highlighted is the lack of public control over some entities. This lack of control occurs repeatedly; in particular, there are eleven entities that do not report to the General Intervention of the State. This is a practice that, despite being repeated year after year, the Government does nothing to prevent it and has not done a single forceful action in this regard. In addition, one more year, the report again reflects Mr Montoro's creative accounting tricks or budget trilerism to deceive us with the State's General Budgets and their implementation. This year we meet again with the already classic credit modifications to finance the special weapons plans and the Ministry of Defence as a whole. EUR 852.4 million has been financed through extraordinary appropriations for special arms plans; another practice is that of Mr Montoro, who has already been declared unconstitutional. In total, between 2012 and 2015, the total amount of credit changes for the Ministry of Defence amounted to EUR 88 billion. But there is more, not one of the EUR 60 billion of aid to the bank, earmarked in these years for the financial rescue, was included in the General State Budgets approved at the Congress. The Government executed them with an extraordinary credit and thus increased the financial and tax administration from an initial budget of 22.3 billion overall between 2012 and 2015 to a total of 82.4 billion euros. Shame. The government, by means of this technique, aims to avoid the explanations to Parliament and to hide the budgets from the citizens, to hide that in the time of greater social cuts in our history the expenditure in defense was triggered by 88 billion and the rescue to the bank was produced for a total value of 60 billion euros. It is understandable that even they themselves, the People's Party Government, are ashamed of what their budgetary priorities were at this time. But one more year is portrayed by this general account that is again seen here in the Congress of Deputies. This overexpenditure under some budget items contrasts with the non-expenditure of other items. If we look at the whole between 2012 and 2015, the total unexecuted budget amounts to 245 billion euros. Going into detail, EUR 9 billion for the R & D+i budget was no longer implemented in these years, most of which through the provision of loans and credits that are not finally granted. Other items, such as those intended for the economic revival of mining areas, were also not implemented. Now that the People's Party is presenting itself as an adalid of these regions, it should be able to explain why only 26% of the budget allocated to this item was implemented. [[Applauds]] In short, these recurrent practices of budget trilerism turn budgets into wet paper by double heading. On the one hand, the approved budgets are modified to increase them through extraordinary appropriations and, on the other, they are undermined through non-implementation. All at the discretion of the Government and, of course, through the back door. As it is late, I will summarize it in a graph.In total, between 2012 and 2015, 15% of the approved budget was not implemented; in total, there were increases in the defence budget by 34% of the total budget and, in total, there was a reduction in the R & D+i budget by 38%. [[Show a chart]] But what is more - it had to be expanded because it did not fit in the sheet -, in total, the bank bailout, in the heading destined for financial and tax administration, was increased by 269% the budget. This is the summary, this is the picture of the People's Party's economic policy. Finally, it should also be noted that the report again reflects how there is a negative deviation in revenue forecasts; an overestimation that occurs year after year by the Rajoy Government, being over 30 billion in 2012. This overestimation of income in Social Security that led to the emptying of the pension shelter has been one of the causes for which the General Administration of the State has failed to meet the deficit objectives, a non-compliance that has subsequently been reduced thanks to the surplus generated by municipalities and autonomous communities. We have been repeating it these days, the municipalities are paying the broken plates of the Central Administration for the absurd design of the rule of spending that prevents the municipalities from having the surplus to finance the public services that provide citizens. And instead of recognizing their compliance and their contribution to the deficit target, what they do is look for formulas and procedures to intervene, as in the case of Madrid, even if they are complying with the rule of spending and with the legislation that you are developing. In fact, it seems that the Government cannot tolerate in any way that the municipalities manage more fairly and efficiently than they do. In conclusion - and I conclude - the recurrent budgetary traps of the Government are a mockery of Parliament and of all citizens. They also constitute a violation of the General Budget Act and also of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, as we said yesterday to the Secretary of State for Finance - the one who left the Mayor of Jaén in a situation of technical bankruptcy with a debt of 550 million euros -, they have no moral, technical or of any kind authority to make any intervention in budgetary matters to those who are more rigorous than you. So, gentlemen of the PP, start by sweeping your house before you put your nose in someone else's house, which I think you have enough to sweep. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u151	For the Socialist Group, Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u152	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Lord Savior, the Andalusians say and sing, "Long live Andalusia, Spain and humanity!" [[Applauds]] For us Andalusians, it goes together, and we feel very Andalusian. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a true paradox and I will explain why. Today we should be here discussing the 2018 General State Budgets draft, but we are talking about the 2015 General Budget account. And it is a paradox because it shows what is an inactive Government, an idle Government, which does not comply with the Constitution or the General Budget Act, and also highlights an obsolete, slow system of accountability. There's the paradox. The general account welcomes both the prosecution and the state's attorney. It has been presented in time and form, but it is evident from the Court of Auditors, on the one hand, that it has not been given in the proper way that not all data are detailed because there are a total of ten entities that have not submitted the general accounts; it is not complete, it is not universal. That's one of the anomalies. And, on the other hand - it shows for the first time the court - the recommendations of 2011, 2012 and 2013, which were recommendations of Parliament and the Court of Auditors itself, are not taken into account. But the general account reveals truths like fists, one of them: in 2015 the government did not comply with the spending rule, but it did not comply with it in 2014 and did not comply with it in 2016. With what moral authority does the Government demand, sanction and intervene the municipalities to comply with the expenditure rule? This Government has no moral strength. [[Applauds]] Secondly, something that we have repeatedly denounced: you are inflating the budgets of the State in a scandalous way. The Court of Auditors is talking about EUR 10 500 million too much, unfulfilled forecasts. Of these, 9300 are social security contributions. The rest, up to 10.5 billion direct taxes, mainly IRPF. We have been repeatedly insisting that they falsify the data and inflate the revenues to square the accounts. The Court of Auditors itself also points out that you do not foresee the expenditure that you should spend: EUR 27.7 billion in funds, transfers to the autonomous communities and to the municipalities that you budget us and EUR 857 million for budgetary changes in armaments of the Ministry of Defence. They do not meet, they are insufficient forecasts in these cases, inflated revenues and insufficient forecasts. They're going to eschew the Social Security Reserve Fund. A total of 13.5 billion have been committed in 2015. Little remains, ladies and gentlemen, at their pace. Other circumstances are also highlighted, such as a series of contingencies which are pointed out that the cost of bank restructuring is already EUR 60 718 million. You lied, it's another obvious truth. They said that it would cost nothing to the public sector, that the MEDE was lending 41,333 million and that it would be returned by the banks. You have falsified the figures. They also say that there are contingencies that are not seen as the 3.5 billion tolls of companies that are fighting over tolls of highways. Also disputes that will damage the state's assets as may be disputes over ground clauses and formalisation costs in entities that are currently in the process of merging such as Bankia and BMN, participating entities. Litigation probably with the Sareb, with an endorsement that has been lent to it of 43,700 million euros, that we do not know if they will return, in addition to the 2139 million that were contributed in share capital. In short, accounts that will go down and assets that will go down with all these contingencies pointed out by the Court of Auditors. I insist, you must comply with the law, submit a draft budget for the coming year as soon as possible, which is being debated. The extension of budgets is an extraordinary mechanism and you are doing so as an ordinary mechanism and that is not complying with the law, not complying with the Constitution. We are therefore going to accept the recommendations of the Court of Auditors and the motions for resolutions that we have adopted in the Commission, but, of course, the content of the 2015 general account shows that a government, a government that continues in the same dynamic of charging itself with the Social Security Reserve Fund, of not establishing a system of autonomous financing and of not resolving the enormous problems that the crisis has caused in this country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Juncal Rodríguez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall make an initial point. The 2015 General Account was approved on 18 November 2016 and published in the BOE; the Court of Auditors' report was presented on 29 June 2017, that is, in June of this year, and passed to the Commission. What I have to say is that we're up to date. After three years of general account in this legislature, the one for 2013 and 2014, now the one for 2015 and the one for 2016 is in the report, so, with regard to that criticism regarding the delay in the reports of the Court of Auditors, I would like to record in the Journal of Sessions that we are up to date in that process. Mr Álvarez de Miranda, President of the Court of Auditors, specifically specified in his report that, except for the exceptions included in the 2005 accounts, he has faithfully presented all the significant aspects, the economic, financial and capital situation, the result of the exercise and the implementation and budgetary settlement. That in a framework of 392 entities there are five that remain unaccounted for is 97.2 per cent, but there is a principle of relative importance that allows us to ensure that the accounts are representative. They continue to collect interpretations that have a legal background, such as the topic of SEPI consolidation by RTVE, Chapter 9, the budgetary changes that have been made, but it should be remembered that all the budgetary changes, that 27,250 million, have met all the requirements contained in the General Budget Law. In addition, they correspond to funding from the autonomous communities and local entities and it is difficult to have a forecast at the beginning of the year. In short, the deficit is substantially improved. And with regard to income, which has been discussed here, we have increased from 223 billion in 2014 to 235 billion in 2015 and, as time is pressing, the adjusted result has increased from less 58 billion to less than 40 billion. I could continue with figures, but obviously it is impossible to address them at this time. Mr. Bel, I'm only going to give you one consideration. Defence expenditure is corrected in 2016 and 2017 and the special arms plans have their corresponding budget allocation. Mr Ten, from Citizens, I do not know if we need seny, but I assure you that the government, presided over by a Galician, has been applying what we call sentinel, common sense for many years. He's got it and he's proven he has it. And it's not going to teach the People's Party to lower taxes either, because I assure you that's, as they say, in our DNA. What happens is that the People's Party, unfortunately, has always had to govern after other Socialist Party gentlemen who said that the rule of spending had to be complied with. The government follows the spending rule; it is you who do not, who spent what they did not have and the People's Party has always spent what it had and not more. With regard to the 2018 budgets, Mr Hurtado, if you are willing to negotiate and support them, let the government know, because given the political situation that has been generated, the government needs parliamentary support and we are all aware of the number of Members of Parliament that each group has, which does not make much sense to accuse us of not presenting the budgets at this time. To Mr de Podemos, who has said that in defense there is no R+D+i, I assure you that they contain a lot of such expenditure. I finish - because time is running out - by drawing a conclusion. The general account was surrendered in time, complied with the regulations and faithfully reflected the state's economic and property situation. No government succeeding this, presided over by Mr Rajoy, will be able to say that the accounts have been hidden or manipulated. A positive development in economic figures is evident: income, contributions, etc. They referred to the Social Security Reserve Fund, but it was that the current unemployment and budget deficit situation during the years 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 made it necessary to pull out of the pension pool to cope with expenditure, as did many citizens in the midst of the economic crisis, who unfortunately had no choice but to pull out of the recovery of pension funds. In short, it is the expression of accounts that reflect a situation that is improving more slowly than we would like and that continues to face great challenges, because undoubtedly the debt and unemployment figure remains important. If everyone helps the government, instead of rowing against it, we'll get it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u155	Thank you very much. The vote will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u156	Before we begin voting, we will make an institutional statement in support of Barcelona as the new headquarters of the European Medicines Agency. Madam First Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Institutional declaration in support of Barcelona as new headquarters of the European Medicines Agency. The Congress of Deputies has already expressed its support for Barcelona's candidacy as a new seat of the European Medicines Agency through its agreements, both from its Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Health and Social Services. Barcelona, ladies and gentlemen, is a city with unbeatable technical conditions to house this headquarters. Its scientific and business biotechnological park, its logistical capacity, its cultural appeal and accommodation for international professionals and the unanimous institutional, municipal, autonomous and state support make Barcelona a city fully prepared to host the European Medicines Agency immediately. For Barcelona, Catalonia and Spain, hosting the agency is a strategic goal that unites the entire society and political forces. The agency is a pole of attraction of talent, business and innovation. The strong and united Europe that we want all the political forces that we subscribe to this declaration would be reinforced by the decision to locate the European agency in Barcelona. For this reason, today the Congress of Deputies reiterates its support for Barcelona's candidacy as the new seat of the European Medicines Agency and urges the Government to redouble its efforts with the European institutions to achieve this. Congress of Deputies. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u158	We begin the voting. We vote, first, on the proposal for a law of the Joint Parliamentary Group for the legal redress of the victims of Francoism through the declaration of nullity and illegitimacy of the courts constituted during the civil war and Francoism, as well as their sentences. The vote will begin. [[Pause.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 332 plus 3 by telephone, 335; in favour, 172 plus 2 by telephone, 174; against, 130; abstentions, 30 plus 1 by telephone, 31.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u159	It's taken into consideration. Now you can clap, if you like. [[Applauds]] - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, REFORMING LAW 1/2000 OF 7 JANUARY, CIVIL JUDGMENT AND LAW 29/1998 OF 13 JULY, REGULATOR OF THE CONTENTIOUS-ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION, IN THE MATTER OF THE COSTS OF THE PROCESS. [[File number 122/00128]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u160	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, reforming Law 1/2000 of 7 January, Civil Prosecution and Law 29/1998 of 13 July, regulator of the Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction, on the costs of the proceedings. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 336 votes in favour, 257, 2 votes in favour, 259 against, 75; abstentions, 1 plus 1 vote in favour, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u161	It's taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u162	Let us now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals. No law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on establishing a new regulation that strengthens the protection of users of financial services of entities not supervised by the Banco de España. We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 248 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u163	It's approved. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, in Marea, with regard to the quality and clearance of waiting times to receive the services regulated by Law 39/2006 of 14 December for the promotion of personal autonomy and attention to persons in situations of deprivation. [[File number 162/000484]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u164	We now vote on the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the quality and decreases in waiting times to receive the benefits regulated by Law 39/2006 of 14 December, on the promotion of personal autonomy and care for people in a situation of dependency. We voted in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Ciudadanos y Mixto. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 204 against, 128 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u165	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u166	We shall now proceed to vote on the motions as a result of urgent appeals. First, we voted on the motion following an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the measures that the Government of Spain will take to ensure the viability and continuity of the productive activity of the banana of the Canary Islands in our country. [[Mrs. Oramas]] We voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 248 abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u167	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN TO REVEAL THE LABORAL PRECARIEDATION SITUATION AND TEMPORARY LEVELS IN CONTRACTING. [[File number 173/000060]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u168	We shall now proceed to vote on the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Group on the measures to be taken to reverse the situation of job insecurity and the levels of temporary recruitment. We voted in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea y Vasco, PNV. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 167 against, 158 abstentions, 8.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u169	It's approved. [[Applauds]] - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States may, in common, on measures of extra-ordinary support for the andalucía and extremadura field and the state as a consequence of the effects of the drought. [[File number 173/000061]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u170	I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that you cannot take pictures in the Chamber. Motion following urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on extraordinary support measures for the eventual workers of the Andalucía and Extremadura camp, and the entire State, as a result of the effects of drought. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist and Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 333 votes in favour, 163 against, 131 abstentions, 39.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u171	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u172	We shall now vote on the opinion of the Joint Committee on Relations with the Court of Auditors on the statement on the General Account of the State for the financial year 2015, as well as on the resolution adopted by that Commission. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 332 votes in favour, 335 votes in favour, 309 votes in favour, 312 votes in favour, 312 votes in favour, 23 abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-14-CD171114.u173	The opinion and resolution of the Joint Committee were therefore adopted. [[Applauds]] The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and fifty-five minutes of the night.
