ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u1	The meeting was called to order. We began the session with the item on the consideration of proposals for legislation and, in particular, that of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, amending the Organic Law 10/1995, of 23 November, of the Penal Code. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Vidal Sáez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. [[Start your intervention in Catalan]] Because the strike is exactly that, it's freedom, it's solidarity, it's progress, it's illusion, it's tension, confrontation, but in any case, it's a right. It is obvious, and there are those who, if they could, would install a sort of manifestodrome, well separated, so that the protests were exactly that: an isolated and invisible fact. And, ladies and gentlemen, you know that if you don't mind, it's not a strike; it's important that we understand this. I, in particular, participated in three general strikes: the first, on 29 September 2010, against the reform of the Zapatero Government. The truth is that we started all the way up; it was around twelve o'clock in the night, we were on the picket at Mercabarna and a truck driver got a little nervous and decided to throw straight with his truck exactly where we were a group of people. I was paralyzed and I was lucky that there was a partner, who trusted less in the chances that this gentleman would stop, took me away. It was not so for other comrades, among others, for example, comrade Celes, founder of the Yayoflautas, who was hit by that truck. Even today we are waiting for that gentleman to be denounced and for there to be some kind of cause for him. There are constant calls during strike days from people who ask if it is legal for their boss to prevent them from exercising their strike, if they may be able to fire them for that. It's a continuum. In the second general strike was already the People's Party and the truth is that the thing promised quite a lot. We learned in that general strike that there was selective persecution. It was a selective persecution against certain collectives but in that case the arrests were absolutely random, any of us could be arrested because what you had done in the background did not matter to anyone, the important thing was which collective you were part of, which student union you were: ultimately, if you were part of a union. It was a way of sending a very clear message to the trade union movement and to the student movement. Thus they arrested, for example, comrades Isma and Dani, two boys who at the time were 19 and 20 years old; between them they were doing four races, you can imagine, a danger to humanity! Two comrades who were arrested during the picket and held in pre-trial detention for 34 days: 34 days in pre-trial detention!, comrades who were evidently acquitted because they had done absolutely nothing but exercise a fundamental right that is enshrined in our Constitution. Lola and Gonzalo, in Malaga; Katiana, from Ses Illes; Ricardo, from Barcelona, whom the bus driver, whom he had allegedly coerced, in his judgment did not even recognize him, because in the background it was not important to have proof! Alfon, in Madrid; Rubén Sanz and José Manuel Nogales, the two of the Loyalty Square, who are here with us today and who are obviously not going to be alone in their judgment. There are many, many names, many men and women who total more than 300. The truth is that the crisis has come round for some of you. Yes: deregulations, privatizations of the public, precariousness for everyone, loss of rights... A wet dream for those who live basically to take over the work of others, which, of course, they would like to strengthen, how not, and for this it is essential to suppress any form of organization and social solidarity. That is why the latest labor reform is based precisely on dismantling collective bargaining, because we prefer isolated, alone in the chief's office. And that's why they've also pulled out of a tardive legal fossil that is Article 315.3 because to dismantle labour rights it was necessary to suppress social protest, criminalize the strike and, of course, all those who make it possible. The result has had effect, that is undoubtedly: more than 300 trade unionists prosecuted and at risk of going to jail, I repeat, for exercising a constitutional right, which is a flagrant democratic degradation. But they didn't get what they were looking for, among other things because criminalizing the strike has never avoided its exercise, never! The criminalization of the strike only serves to extremise its consequences. The 315 collects the crimes of coercion in a strike, equates the power of coercion of companies to that of a group of people, which is ridiculous, ladies and gentlemen. The most effective picket, and everyone knows it, the most co-active, is the employer picket. [[Applauds]] It is the picket that in all companies, on all days of general strike strikes against the workers of this country, and everyone knows it. Start days before the strike. It begins with murmurs, with glances, with criticisms, with threats. That's how it starts. Start, after all, with a de-li-to. By the way, crime - it must be a coincidence - for which no company has ever been appealed because, occasionally!, it must be a coincidence, for the crime of the 315 are only unionists, workers without any criminal record, and basically to fight to improve the living conditions of their companions, those who are going through the criminal proceedings. It would be good for the PSOE to explain to us one day why they maintained in the 1995 Criminal Code this criminal figure that represses a conduct, the strike, which was already legal at the time. Moreover, at that time, in fact, it was already considered a fundamental right. It's curious. What was the meaning of maintaining a vestige of dictatorship in the 1995 Penal Code? In 2015, the People's Party reformulated the Penal Code and reduced penalties. Yeah, but you know why? Because it basically reduced the penalties for coercion exercised by companies. The capitalism of friends back to the rescue for all their friends. One might ask why before 2012 we had not heard of this fateful article. And it's very simple, basically because it wasn't used. It is with the absolute majority of the People's Party when there is a brutal offensive against the rights of citizens and when the prosecution gives an instruction to use this article to discourage mobilizations. That's what the D.A. did. Coercion must be punished, of which there is no doubt, and therefore it is contained in articles 171 and 172 of the Criminal Code. What is an aberration, ladies and gentlemen, is the criminalization of the collective exercise of the right to strike; what is an aberration is the savage disproportion of penalties and the use of the Penal Code to suppress social protest. There is also no second chance for strikers. The sentence imposes imprisonment even if it is the first crime committed in life, and it is a curious thing, because our legislation is more benign with the reckless murderer, the sexual aggressor or the one who commits sexual abuse of minors than with the strikers, which is soon very curious. The replacements of the ministers of the new Executive have not improved. It was embarrassing, if I may say so, to see Minister Catalá get nervous and reckless, like a teenager, giving himself to a restrictive interpretation of the recent Supreme Court ruling regarding the right to strike of subcontractors. A minister of justice giving rise to an interpretation that questioned a fundamental right. It's an aupa, ladies and gentlemen! You want to individualise the right to strike, and that is why you speak of freedom and not of law; a theoretical freedom, existing only in a role and impossible in practice to carry out and to exercise it, without the possibility of acting in solidarity; a right in practice privatized by you. The right to strike is only real if its exercise is collective and such exercise includes, of course, the possibility of promoting the strike in an organized manner. I'm done. I want to thank all the men and women who make their bodies, their time and their intelligence available to improve the conditions of all, and especially those who are going through this tortuous process of persecution - some present here, many not - those who precede that aurora of Margarit's poem that read them at the beginning, because we are not eight or two or three hundred; we are all, and strike is not a crime. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u3	Mr Rodríguez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u4	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I do not need to make here today a historical tour on the importance of the right to strike in our daily lives. Without the strike we would not have paid holidays, without it we would not have 40-hour weekly days - those that have it, of course - and we would not, for example, have a public pension system. We can say with a full mouth that without the strike there would be no welfare state that we enjoy or at least the one that is remaining. In our country, wealth, gross domestic product, is now almost the same as we had before 2008, before the outbreak of the crisis and the housing bubble. On the way, however, we have left EUR 35 billion - the figure, I repeat, EUR 35 billion - in wages. What does this mean? That the cake of the country's wealth is more or less the same, but that in this whole process of cuts and austerity policies those who generate that wealth, that we are the working people, we have become less and less divided. This has been the result of a very well-developed - all to be said - and very well-executed plan, which basically consisted in destroying the power of the organized working people, wounding the collective bargaining with gravity and death, and ultimately suppressing and curtailing the right to strike. Article 315.3 of the Criminal Code punishes coercion under the right to strike with imprisonment for up to three years. In practice this means an attack on trade union freedom and the constitutional right to strike by working people. With this PL we seek the deletion of article 315.3, as I said before, that it has been used to persecute more than 350 trade unionists in our country - as my partner has already said - who face requests for imprisonment of more than 90 years - and some are already in prison, if not asking Alfon, for example - for exercising a constitutional right. I wonder if this happened in Venezuela what parliamentary groups and the media would be saying in this country, I wonder what they would be saying. [[Applauds]] It is clear that the aim of this article is to repress, because our Criminal Code already contemplates the crime of coercion in the case of other articles, such as 172, for example; moreover, as the companion rightly said, this happens as with the complaints of macho violence, the reality of labor relations is just the opposite, this is like the one that says: the complaints are false, false. They lie, they lie. It's the boss who's pushing. There are multiple sentences that show that pressure and coercion are sentences - if not Alberto Rodríguez - that occur mostly from the business side towards the working people. We already know the sad classic of: As you don't come tomorrow, don't bother to come the rest of the days. We know him, don't we? For this reason we propose to reverse the reduction of penalties to the employer carried out in this last reform of the Penal Code, because the penalties were lowered, yes, but they were lowered to employers against any prognosis. Freedom of association, collective bargaining and the right to strike are fundamental rights enshrined in our Constitution and are the most powerful, if not the only, tools that the working people have to defend decent working conditions and a fairer distribution of wealth. The plot government, in connivance with the economic elites and the big employers, obviously uses this article of the Penal Code to repress workers, to prevent their organization, and to sow fear of protest among the population. This is inadmissible in any democratic state. And even if you try to invisible them and say that this is a thing of the past and of the night, I give you a few examples. Telemarketing: seven strike days with a wide follow-up of tens of thousands of precarious workers fighting for a worthy agreement, all this year. Home help workers: months on strike in different cities, having to collect food and money in order to reach the end of the month, continue today in battle. The elevator sector: several weeks on strike, thousands of workers on the streets, majority monitoring of the staff... Victory!: they managed to win and stopped the labor reform. Renfe Ferrovial: Several weeks on strike for a worthy agreement, they are still in battle even though the media are not echoing. Doubles of the television series - those that we all see via the Internet -: forty-five days on strike, started historical salary increases for the sector. Private security, Coca-Cola, forest brigades, taxi drivers, Unipost, could be like this for a month to tell you that the right to strike is well alive despite the weights. And I remind you of the lords of the People's Party and their friends, who are going to put the stabbing on Thursday in the decree of the greenhouse, who are going to remember very well what a strike as God commands because they are going to have it from you to put the stabbing on the sector and sign the decree of the greenhouse, thus precariousing the job of more than 6,000 families. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u5	Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. This initiative repeats previous attempts with regard to article 315 of the Organic Law of the Criminal Code, which has created a problem with the judicial interpretation that is being given to the term coercion by information pickets during the strike. In reviewing the background, it is very important that the Government of Felipe González approve a major reform of the Criminal Code that not only maintained this criminal figure but also with the socialist support and support, among others, of the United Left - which by then had a parliamentary group - they proposed to harden the sentences no less than six years. It had to be the Senate, thanks to the People's Party, to correct and reduce the penalty in half time. During the period of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero the socialists did not find a moment or a loophole to modify this article and it was again the PP who, more recently in 2015, promoted a new wording that softened the penalties and also gave the judge the opportunity to replace them with sanctions, but maintained the aggravating that they occur during a strike. The attempt by Podemos to modify article 315 on picketing in strikes is a major step in another episode of propagandistic reforms, without any interest for citizens. At the Forum we do not agree with this way of legislating trompicones which affects rules of great magnitude such as the organic laws and, in particular, that of the Criminal Code which in this case wants to be accompanied by the dismissal of the ongoing cases and the revision of penalties even with compensation and the return of fines with a payment of the legal interest. We do not reject legislative reform processes, but when it comes to important laws that are key to the fulfilment of the constitutional mandate and democratic life, changes should be promoted from consensus and dialogue. This is not the case here this afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u7	Thank you very much. Also for the same group, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Euskal Herria Bildu is going to vote in favour of taking into consideration something very obvious: because we have had decades of governments that only take away the rights of workers. There are many reasons to endorse the consideration in a context in which the right to strike is increasingly questioned, attempts are made to confront strikers with the rest of the citizenry and with users of such services who may be affected. Fortunately, there are exceptions. Today in a part of my country there is a strike, a non-university public education strike, backed by 80% of the community and in communion with parents, students and teachers. That is a reality which they have tried to eliminate, but which, fortunately, they have not yet achieved. As I said, decades of limitation of the right to strike, trying obscenely to increase the minimum services and criminalizing pickets as well as encouraging legal circumvention. The right to strike repressed with sentences to pickets, with criminalization of trade unions, with petition for the illegalization of trade unions as some Basque employer suggested for ELA and LAP or having to remember, also from this rostrum today here: Alfon, freedom!, Andrés, freedom! or Rafa Diez Usabiaga, Askatu! Where is the neutral nature of the public power enshrined in its Constitution in article 28.2? Is it to weaken or hinder the mobilization of the working class an element to achieve a more just society? Nowhere in the world, nor here. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the Spanish Constitution of 78 is something big for your current interests and that doesn't say much about you because if the Constitution of 78 was an agreement on noise of sands and it is big for you, where do you want to take us? Is it not that democracy, freedom and popular power are left to this State? If this is the case, and it seems to us that it is the case, they understand that in Euskal Herria to defend the working class we want to form a state of our own. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, article 37 of our Constitution enshrines collective bargaining and raises its fruit, the collective agreement, to the category of source of law and, as you know, collective agreements often come after the exercise of a fundamental right, that of strike, which is enshrined in article 28 of our Constitution and, as you also know, in criminal law the conduct that could in principle be criminalized, but in which the interference of some fundamental right appears, normally leads to the modulation of the penalties to be passed. For example, and I explain myself, killing is wrong, very wrong, but when you kill to protect your own life or integrity, that is called self-defense and is the object of an exclusion from anti-legality or, at least, an attenuation of the penalty. Injury is also wrong, very wrong, but the Constitutional Court has repeated to the satisfaction that when certain expressions are uttered in the political sphere, supported by the exercise of the right of participation of article 23, then many of these expressions lose their insultous meaning and are therefore not subject to criminal punishment. It could extend me, but by specifically entering into article 28, what is also clear is that it could - I say it could and should not - also be considered that those acts that could in principle be understood as coercion, when they are implemented in the development of the right to strike should be reduced their criminal significance, because it is logical to understand the warming of the people who to defend labor improvements have to exercise the strike, assume that they will be discounted their salary and that therefore that day they will not bring home the bread. This is something that we would have to consider later, but, as the time comes, the important thing is that by a simple question of justice and legal logic we attach to rationality our order. Compromís is going to support the consideration of this bill because he understands that it is absolutely out of place that the exercise of the right to strike, participation in pickets, can end up being punished not only by coercion in general, but also by crimes such as torture. I refer you to article 174 of the Criminal Code to see how it is punished. Of course, for an exercise of coherence, we must proceed with this legislative reform. Compromises will support you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u11	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Ciuro i Buldo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Democratic Party will vote in favour of the reform of the Criminal Code Act and will do so for the same reasons as in the 10th Legislature, when the Plural Left presented a very similar or, I would say, identical initiative. At that time its processing did not prosper by the absolute majority of the People's Party. I say that we are going to vote in favour for the same reasons, basically because the crime of coercion is repeatedly criminalized. It appears in article 172 of the Criminal Code, and article 315.3 does so by criminalizing in a singular way actions arising from the activities inherent in the exercise of the right to strike. This is unnecessary and we will support the approval in order to change Article 315.3. Moreover, it is objectively true that there has been a significant increase in the litigation of cases brought at the request of the prosecution, as has been said before, arising from the application of this article, an increase that is essentially incardinated in the repression of the freedoms that are once being lived in the Spanish State at the hands of the People's Party. The Democratic Party does not believe either in beats or demons on either side, for they cook beans everywhere. In any case, the fundamental right to strike has not been developed by organic law and we will work towards the elaboration of an organic law of protection and guarantee of it, since it is a fundamental right that must be able to be exercised for the benefit of freedom of expression and fair claims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u13	Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. A reform of article 315 of the Criminal Code, which includes the decriminalization of the special type of coercion with respect to the general coercion of article 172 of pickets on workers who do not want to secondary or continue a strike, is submitted for consideration. Article 315(3). In addition, it is proposed to modify the punishability of those who, through deception, abuse of the situation of necessity, force, violence or intimidation, prevent or limit the exercise of trade union freedom or the right to strike. Article 315(1) and (2). It is also proposed that the custodial sentences be set aside, that the criminal record be set aside and that compensation be paid for the time spent in prison for those convicted of the criminal offence of article 315.3 and, if the penalty is fined, that the amount be returned with their legal interests, in addition to the termination of criminal cases under article 315, paragraph 3, and that the sentences be reviewed within a maximum of fifteen days. As can be seen, this is not a minor reform, but rather a far-reaching reform of the criminal labour law, which protects and strengthens the rights of workers and the employment contract in order to ensure that the most gross violations of the rights of workers are treated in a punitive manner. Thus, the legal good protected in Title IV of the Criminal Code would be the most relevant rights of workers recognized in general laws and in the same Constitution; more specifically, in Article 315, the right to freedom of association and the right to strike, a legal good protected in the criminal labour law, which should be remembered that it always has a predominantly collective criminal component. This means that, even if there are several workers who are victims of the same aggression or criminal action, a single offence is perceived and not so much as affected, as would happen if the protected legal good were individual, as is the case in article 172 of the Criminal Code. Article 315 of the Criminal Code, which is now proposed for profound amendment, has always been accompanied by controversy, very singularly with regard to the performance of the strike-extension pickets, since the same adoption of the Constitution and the recognition of the right to strike in article 28.2. In this question, special emphasis was placed on the adoption in 1995 of the so-called Criminal Code of Democracy, which introduced the current article 315.3 - subsequently amended in 2015 - which reduced the punishability of those responsible but without substantially affecting the typical conduct. The fundamental problem raised since then is whether a criminal type should be established in which pickets would be involved when they impede the right of workers not to strike or to follow a strike, given the reality of how the rules are applied by the criminal courts; otherwise, the term coercion, which defines the typical nature of prohibited conduct, does not modulate in the context of a strike with respect to its strict meaning, and this results in the association in the judicial sphere of the action of pickets to violence of criminal content, forgetting that a strike involves the play of forces in conflict, which is a measure of pressure and has in itself an element of coercion in the social sense, since it aims to extend the strike both in the face of the negative inertia of many workers in its exercise, by the sacrifices that involve - basically the suspension of the contract of work - as well as other mechanisms of corporate pressure in the opposite direction, that even when they are anti-unional and contrary to the constitutional law of the strike are considered by the criminal courts without penal relevance, as opposed to the use of the actions of irregular means. Another consideration we need to make with regard to the problem of strike-extension pickets is that their performance is part of the essential content of the fundamental right to strike as set out in article 28 (2) of the Constitution, as well as the constitutional jurisprudence, both to inform and persuade workers who do not join in order to join, and to deter those who have chosen to continue at work, of course, without exercising violence against workers who refuse to join, as the Constitutional Court also claims, because this would affect other constitutional assets in conflict, such as the same right to work, although this is a right of lower constitutional legal value than the right to strike, the dignity of the person - article 10.1 - and the right to moral integrity - article 15. Even the Constitutional Court has been aware of this need to modulate the criminal penalty when it affects the excess in the exercise of a fundamental right - in this case it concerns us, the information pickets when they exceed its constitutional content -, and it comes to question in judgments 29/2009 and 88/2003 the application of criminal rates when, even appreciating excesses in the exercise of the right, they fail to distort or disfigure it. In such cases, the gravity of the criminal sanction would constitute a violation of the right, by implying a disproportionate and unnecessary sacrifice of the fundamental rights at stake that could have a deterrent and discouraging effect on its exercise. That is to say - and I am finalizing - it is not enough for the sanctioned conduct to go beyond the boundaries of constitutional protection of the law, but it must be ensured that the criminal reaction to such an excess does not entail an unnecessary or disproportionate sacrifice of the freedom of the sentenced person or a deterrent or discouraging effect on the exercise of the fundamental right, in this case the essential content of the right to strike, which is concrete, inter alia, in the performance of the extension pickets. The Attorney General, Torres-Dulce, said something similar in his day about article 315.3: it is a problem of devalue of conduct and disproportion over the protected legal good. For all that said and for other reasons that we do not have time at this time to expose, we believe that a parliamentary reflection should be opened, enriched by the appearance of experts and parties involved, in which we seek and find a penal regulation appropriate to the reality that is intended to be normal. Thank you very much, Madam President; thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u15	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. We are going to vote in favour of dealing with this bill, which we agree with. It is not in vain in the first parliamentary term that we put forward an initiative almost identical to this one, which was accepted unanimously, and in this parliamentary term we put forward another proposal in the same direction. I was told by a historical worker militant and one of my political and trade union leaders, Miguel González of Sant Boi: These - referring to the People's Party - the first thing they will do is impose a brutal labor reform to make pay for the broken dishes of what they call crisis to the workers; and so it was: a reform that has condemned thousands of workers to poverty and precariousness. And Miguel González said: Our dear Government will continue with a reform so that no one can protest and question what is coming upon us. And so it was, he said once again: in order for no one to question his policies, the People's Party continued to adopt a law of gag and, as it did not have enough, rescued a new interpretation of article 315.3 of the Criminal Code that will be carried out at the request of a prosecutor. This forced interpretation, because this remorse of the Penal Code had never been applied before, has enabled more than three hundred trade unionists to be prosecuted with prison petitions ranging from three to eight years. What is at stake in this bill is democracy itself, the right to strike, a fundamental principle of a democratic country, which is currently being questioned. In the coming weeks Rubén and José Manuel, trade unionists of the UGT, will be judged, that like this list of more than three hundred trade unionists that passed me by comrade Pepe, of Workers Commissions - trade unionists that I do not appoint because I have not asked for permission -, they have had to suffer years of anxiety waiting for a trial and a sentence that would allow them to take that sword of Damocles off and regain peace and their full freedom again. The only crime committed by them has been to go out on the street to defend their trampled rights. His only crime, in short, has been to exercise the right to strike, resist and prevent the implementation of a labor reform dictated by the troika for the Rajoy government, which must ask permission for all important things, including the amendment of a law for the greenhouse; for that he must also ask permission. It has been shown that it is a labour reform that has served only to impoverish us and satisfy the interests of multinationals, the financial system and a part of the unscrupulous entrepreneurship. Democracy requires the repeal of article 315.3 in order to ensure that it will not be used again at the will of the Government to avoid the resistance and legitimate mobilization of any worker against any plan that denies the right to life with dignity. In the same way that people, like Catalan, have the right to decide their fate, we workers have the right, I would even say, the obligation, to defend ourselves against any reform that attacks our rights and to live with decent work and wages. The best of our society is undoubtedly due to the struggles of the organized workers' movement. In Catalonia, Esquerra Republicana and, in Spain, the Republicans, who still have them, are very clear: there are no national rights without social rights, but there are no social rights without national rights. They're the double face of the same coin. [[Applauds]] I'm done. It is necessary to repeal any rule that criminalizes the democratic exercise of the strike, information pickets, assemblies, meetings, the power to demonstrate peacefully in any space and before any institution, because the institutions are at the service of the people, as is this House, where we debate its representatives. No rule should prevent the free exercise of demonstration before this Congress, this Parliament and any other. Repealing Article 315.3 is a minimum requirement, as is the file of all processes opened around its application and the cancellation of those performed. It is not enough for them to be acquitted; they should never have been prosecuted. It should never have been questioned their dignity by an anti-democratic law, they should never have passed this bad drink because they were unionists, that is, members of an organization that today is, despite its mistakes, the only dam of containment to capital and the wild free market out of control. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u17	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cano Leal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u18	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have here a proposal to reform the Criminal Code, an organic law, the scope of which has not been detailed by the proposing group. Let's explain it briefly. First, a change is made for future events, i.e., the modification of the penal type for the two figures in the first and second paragraphs of 315, and for past events a proposal is made: for proceedings under way, the dismissal is proposed; for convictions, without the proposal of law indicating whether or not they are final judgements, the revision is proposed at the request of the prosecutor's office; and for sentences under execution, the annulment, compensation and payment of fines are proposed, also at the request of the prosecutor's office. Article 315 has been subject to a single amendment in 2105 by the People's Party, which we have discussed very briefly. In this description of the two types of crime, article 315 contains the protection of the right to strike and the protection of the right to work or not to strike. With regard to the former, it is said that those who, by deception or abuse of a situation of necessity, prevent or limit the exercise of freedom of association or the right to strike shall be punished. The modification proposed by the People's Party in 2015 was a reduction in the penalty. This type is included whether it goes with violence, force, intimidation or coercion as if it goes without them, which was the modification that was introduced. The second right is the right to work or not to strike. Those acting in groups or individually, but according to others, coerce others to start or continue a strike. What reform does is harden the penalty. Therefore - as can be seen - the People's Party came only to reduce the penalties of those who prevented the exercise of the right to strike and to increase those of those who coerced others to start or continue their strike and therefore ultimately came to put obstacles in the exercise of the right to strike. Well, what is now intended with the proposal is to return to the initial wording of 1995 of the Criminal Code, article 315. With regard to the deletion of the third paragraph, we must point out, ladies and gentlemen, first of all that this amendment should be agreed by all the parliamentary groups and not be the result of an individual proposal, in this case, by Unite Pode. We detail this in the electoral campaign and in the Committee on Employment and Social Security; secondly, that this deletion of the third paragraph of Article 315 was already included in the agreement we signed between Citizens and the Socialist Party in the previous parliamentary term, which the proposing group formally rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, the right to strike is a legal good worthy of protection and, for the same reason, any limit to its exercise must be essentially restrictive, as the Supreme Court has repeatedly stated. We agree on that, logically. We also consider, as our courts and tribunals have already stated, that the right to work is also worthy of protection. Therefore, in the eyes of our parliamentary group, Citizens, the real challenge of this initiative should be to find a plausible balance between the two rights worthy of protection. That's the essence. In relation to the above, the present proposal for an organic law contains issues to be addressed. Firstly, we agree with the proposal to amend the penalties in the first and second paragraphs of Article 315, logically, and we also agree with the deletion of the third paragraph, decriminalisation, as we have said. It should be recalled, ladies and gentlemen, that for two decades, from 1995 to 2015, Article 315 was based on a consensus accepted by the whole world and without raising problems either for the Socialist Government or for the People's Party. A proper balance was therefore achieved between the right to strike and the right to work. This balance achieved in the 1995 Penal Code was not interrupted until, in a totally unnecessary way, the People's Party passed its Organic Law 1/2015. For this reason, during the 11th Legislature, the previous one, our parliamentary group - as I have already pointed out - signed an agreement with the Socialist Party which included as a point the deletion of the third paragraph of Article 315; in addition, we voted in favour of a non-legislative proposal debated in the Committee on Employment and Social Security proposing precisely that deletion of the third paragraph. Therefore, this reform, which Citizens had already proposed before, seems appropriate to us insofar as it seeks to eliminate the imbalance between the right to strike and the right to work introduced by the reform of the People's Party. Another thing is the proposals that are being made on the issues that are being dealt with, that have been prosecuted, have been sentenced or are being implemented. With regard to the stay of cases pending, the review of the proceedings in which a conviction had been handed down and the annulment of the execution of a custodial sentence, I have to say, ladies and gentlemen of the proposing group, that this is a natural effect of the reform; it was not necessary to incorporate these considerations, because they are a consequence of article 2 of the Criminal Code itself, which in its second paragraph states that, however, will have retroactive effect those criminal laws which favour the defendant even when he entered into force, although a final sentence had been handed down and the subject was serving his sentence. With regard to the claim for compensation, we cannot agree. Why? Because that is to equate a judgment handed down in accordance with the rule in force at that time with an assumption of property liability, which does not come here because there has been no error. I'm done. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the United Group We can, since Citizens are the only party and the only parliamentary group that proposes and defends the depoliticization of justice and the reform of the prosecutor's office, to abound in their independence and to make possible the implementation of this amendment, we invite you to support our reforms. With regard to yours, we tell you that we will make the appropriate amendments in the appropriate procedure. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u19	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u20	President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to greet the representation of the UGT and the Workers' Commissions that accompany us and to extend a very special greeting to the comrades of the UGT's Hospitality Federation, unjustly accused of defending the exercise of the right to strike and also unjustly threatened with a prison sentence of up to seven years. An absolute barbarity. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group will support the consideration of this proposed organic law for its explicit purpose, the defence of the exercise of the right to strike, and because the Socialist Group itself has been advocating initiatives in the same direction for a long time. We are going to support the proposal even though it has come to a bad start and wrongly; it would logically have been to wait for the most complete, well-founded initiative that the unions were finalising and that they delivered to us this morning, and it would have been right to include the amendment of Article 172 together with the repeal of 315.3, because that is the only way to effectively prevent the strikers from going to jail unjustly. By the way, the US spokesman We may know that the incorporation of 315.3 into the 1995 Criminal Code came through a United Left amendment that was softened and lowered by an amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Senate. [[Applauds]] In any case, the Socialist Group will vote in favour of this initiative and will put forward amendments in the hands of my colleagues, Manuel de la Rocha and Juan Carlos Campo, and taking as a reference the well-founded proposal made to us today by the UGT and the Workers' Commissions. What's it all about, anyway? For the Socialist Group, the aim is to prevent workers from being sent to prison simply because they exercise a fundamental right, such as the right to strike, by participating in an information picket. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the immediate objective, but the goal of legal change must go much further. It is a question of defending the right to strike itself as a fundamental right in our legal system, because there is a conservative offensive that seeks to delegitimize it and de facto deactivate it through intimidation. It is also a question of defending trade union freedom, a basic pillar of our democracy, in the face of attempts to limit it and restrict it in order to limit and restrict its functions in defence of workers' rights. In short, it is a question of defending the role of trade unions in our society, as fundamental institutions for our democratic coexistence, in the face of the premeditated and concerted action between public and private authorities that tries to discredit and weaken them at the very moment when it is a question of imposing a productive model that bases the competitiveness of companies on the precariousness of jobs and on wage devaluation. This is a question of defending the right to strike, of defending trade union freedom and of defending the role of trade unions that are responsible for the interests of workers. What do we propose in particular? Two things. First, repeal 315.3 of the Criminal Code, concerning the aggravated crime of coercion in the course of the strike, and second, reform 172, which regulates the crime of coercion on a generic basis. Why repeal 315.3 of the Criminal Code, after having maintained it since 1995 and despite the 2015 reform? Because in recent years it has proved unnecessary by redundant. The courts have always relied on generic 172 to pursue truly violent conduct. We also repeal it as defective, because it is allowing a twisting interpretation by some elements of the prosecution that unfairly charges members of information pickets during strike days. And we repeal it because this article is based on the unacceptable premise that an offence committed in the exercise of a fundamental right must be punished to a greater extent, with more years in prison, than an offence committed in other circumstances, and this makes no sense. The fact is that between 1995 and 2011 this article went unnoticed. When do problems start? In 2012, with the new Government of the People's Party, when concerted action is taken by the prosecutor's office to punish the action of information pickets in an exemplary manner. What were the reasons? Change of doctrine? Changes in case law? No, the reason was to limit the exercise of the right to strike, to criminalize its promoters and to deter workers in their follow-up. It was about discrediting the trade union protest in general, it was about wearing down the image of trade unions in a context in which their work was fundamental. The labour reform was a dynamite of collective bargaining, and the law, along with the prosecution's action against pickets, weakened the trade union response in defence of workers' rights. This has been the game. That is why we must defend the right to strike, which is part of the constitutional pact, which is a democratic expression of a social conflict, which is a right of conflict and which can only be interpreted in this context. And we must also defend the role of information pickets in a strike. We are all against violence, but information pickets are not violent commands. These are legitimate instruments of dissemination and propaganda of the strike, with functions of persuasion and deterrence even which are also legitimized in the very doctrine of the Constitutional Court. When pursuing a non-violent picket, we seek something as unacceptable as discouraging the exercise of a fundamental right such as the right to strike, seeking to delegitimize trade union action itself, and weakening trade unions, ladies and gentlemen, is weakening democracy and the foundations of our democratic coexistence, let us take this into account. There are hundreds of workers threatened by unfair causes because of this criminal type that we want to repeal today, but we said that 172 must also be amended to prevent this other precept being used to continue unfairly pursuing trade unionists in the exercise of their rights. They plant the trade unions and propose that the Socialist Group adapt our Criminal Code to the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, which differentiates the alleged coercions when a fundamental right is exercised and when a fundamental right is not exercised. This is the reform we proposed in 172. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group will support this proposal for a law and will work towards a definitive wording that will help to defend the exercise of the right to strike, the exercise of trade union freedom and the crucial role of trade unions in a society that always aims to be fairer and more decent. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs Valmaña Ochaita has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u22	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is that today I am very pleased to see the position of some parliamentary groups that have regained the presumption of innocence, even if only for those who are in the process of 315.3. I also firmly believe in the presumption of innocence of those and many others who are being investigated. [[Applauds]] Also, like many others, I wish you the best. In addition to being happy about this, I do not come out of my astonishment because it seems that the crime of 315.3 was born before yesterday, that judges are mere Monigotes in the hands of I do not know what conspiracy with the prosecution and other legal operators to do what I am not supposed to know what abstract entities want to do in relation to this issue. I do not know whether the Socialist Party will have much future, but of course what it does not have is history for what is being told in this rostrum. What is true is that what is proposed today is to repeal Article 315.3 and also to include an additional provision to compensate - it is the only contribution, the rest makes no sense - all those who have been sentenced by a final sentence and have already complied with it. Nor have we been told since; perhaps it is from the beginning of time, perhaps it is since 1995, when the Socialist Party adopted the so-called Penal Code of Democracy. All this seems to be detached from the literality of Podemos's proposed law, but it is not true, it is not what is proposed to us here. What is proposed to us today is a mirage, a legal miscarriage, something that has neither feet nor head and that puts into check the principles of legal certainty, retroactivity of the Criminal Law and even the principle of legality. What surprises me is that this is supported by some other groups that are supposed to have greater knowledge of the law and specifically of the Criminal Law. You talk about coming here to defend trade union freedom and the right to strike. But the right to strike and freedom of association are defended by article 28 of the Constitution and article 315 of the Criminal Code in its three issues, which contains specific protection for crimes committed in excess of fundamental rights and freedoms. They're talking about criminalizing the strike. Look, those who criminalize the strike are those who equate the legitimate exercise of the strike, protected by law, that carry out thousands of people in Spain, with violent incidents that should embarrass them rather than defend them. [[Applauds]] It is protected within the crimes against the rights of workers, because here we do not oppose the right to work with the right to strike, what is protected in the three issues of article 315 is the right to strike, in its two versions. [[Mr. Rodriguez Rodriguez makes negative signs]] Yes, sir, the right to strike, both in the positive version, the possibility to summon it, to exercise it, to advertise it, and in the legitimate right not to support it. Study, please, study. And study the great penalists and laborers, which I will not quote because they probably would not feel very comfortable if they are quoted by a member of the People's Party because they are not exactly very close to our parliamentary group. The right to strike is a right, as you have said - it is true - of collective exercise but of individual ownership and must therefore be protected in that individual ownership both on its positive side and on its negative side. This first lesson of Labor Relations is free; if you want any more, then I'll invite you to a Coca-Cola in the cafeteria and give it to you there. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] I want to remind you that doctrine and jurisprudence are unanimous, and if you don't believe me, review those manuals, review that highly authoritative scientific doctrine of great Spanish penalists and great Spanish laborers. I'm going to tell you what some of those great criminalists quote textually in some of their articles and blogs. They did so in 2007, by the way, in the reform that the PSOE did not dare to include. They say that they advise a specific protection of the right not to participate in the strike but taking care in the construction of the concrete type to the conflicting collective. This is what the People's Party has done, avoiding the generic reference to force in things - which was also in the previous wording - to violence in people, and has clarified by demanding that there be additional coercion of criminal content in order to be able to punish these crimes. Now violence and irrelevant intimidation have no place. This aspiration to return to the past, to return to the year 1995 that those of the proposing group and all those who support it, does what it does is to try to make those violent pickets more punished. I don't understand anything! You want to go from three years and a day to four and a half years and a fine of twelve to eighteen months! This is the punitive incarnation, which you are proposing, not the one the People's Party wants, which believes that things must have a fair measure for crimes to correspond to their penalties. It does not make any sense the proposal they make, it lacks common sense, it lacks legal meaning and it can only obey or the ignorance in this matter - I think that is where things are going - or they try to grab headlines, which also. Moreover, by the way, to make a trial in addition to the judges and courts when they make judgments that they do not like, when they condemn those you consider to be one of ours. Your Honor, I say to you: do not miss those expressions that spoke of the flight of the robes with the contact of the dust of the road, do not yearn the judges who adhere to the regime that you proposed in the programmatic document or proposed trap that they made to the PSOE in the previous legislature, do not yearn it because, in the face of the dust of the robes, the People's Group wants impolite judges who apply the law, not that it is interpreted by a political group for clearly partisan interests. [[Applauds]] As far as the rest of the proposals are concerned, I shall not go in because they are useless or absurd in seeking compensation for the very correct application of the law in force. Having said that, I can only conclude by saying that, logically, the People's Group cannot support a perverted concept of what you mean by freedom and democracy to Venezuelan women. They won't count on our vote. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause in the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.-Laughter and applause in the seats of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States We Can-In Common May-In Sea]] - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, IMPROVING THE PENSION OF THE ORFANDAD OF THE CHILDS AND CHILDS OF VICTIMES OF GENERAL VIOLENCE. [[File number 122/000079]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u23	We are now discussing the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to improve the orphan's pension for the children of victims of gender-based violence. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Álvarez Álvarez has the floor. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me some preliminary considerations. More than 10 years have passed since the adoption of the Comprehensive Law against Gender Violence, a rule that opened the door to structuring the State's response to violence against women, a law that represented a major step in the protection of victims precisely by granting them enhanced protection from acts of physical and psychological abuse. The improvement of the actions of the State in the face of this violence that costs the lives of dozens of women every year is one of the objectives of the subcommission in which we commit our credibility to the fight against violence. That subcommission also seeks answers to ensure that the law is complied with and that reparation is effective. Law 1/2004 itself mandates equality bodies to evaluate the programmes and actions being carried out and to issue recommendations for their improvement because the legislator is aware that we are faced with violence that is mutating and needs adapted responses. We know that combating such violence requires a good mix of resources for the institutionalization of equality policies and in the framework of responses to such violence prevention, security, justice to end impunity and provide reparation to victims are key. This proposal, ladies and gentlemen, is part of this last aspect because it responds to the needs of protection and care for the children of the victims of death, that is, orphans of gender-based violence, who are, in turn, recognized by law as direct victims. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a proposal for a law to avoid unprotection in situations of orphanhood due to gender-based violence. I would like to make it clear that civil society, as always, has gone ahead in raising awareness of this reality. The initial quantification that the Federation of Separate and Divorced Women's Associations has done at the time has been key and the Cazorla Prieto Fiscal Scholarship Fund has made it possible to make visible with data and testimonies the reality and challenges facing these children; realities and challenges, ladies and gentlemen, to which the legislator cannot be alien because the reality shown by the cases identified by the Cazorla Prieto Fiscal Scholarship Fund challenges us and demand that we fulfil our responsibility as public authorities. Many minors are exposed to the suffering of the orphan, affected in their emotional development, in need of help for their recovery. Orphans who are in absolute helplessness and without a State that assumes minimal responsibility for these minors. We need to ensure a contributory benefit for all orphans for gender-based violence, and we can do so through this reform brought by the Socialist Group today, which is based on the express recognition, for the purpose of generating the right to an orphan's pension, that the mother causing gender-based violence is considered to be in a high or similar situation to that of a high. The only way to effectively ensure the protection provided by the social security system is for these orphaned benefits for gender-based violence to be included within the contributory framework of the social security system. It's not just common sense. Let us think of the difficulty of the mother's employability finally murdered. We find women controlled by the abuser in carrying out any activity outside their domain, which turn the workplace into a space of risk. These circumstances prevent these victims of the macho terror from being required to have high and contributory requirements for access to social security benefits that are also necessary for them to escape abuse and make their recovery feasible. We did so and it is recognized by the Law against Gender Violence, adopted unanimously in this House. In addition, the best interests of the child call for this advance in the protection system, because if the laws declare them direct victims of violence, they should in turn recognize their right to comprehensive recovery; it seems logical. Those who have been placed in the greatest of defenses should be made clear that we are committed to ensuring that death and survival benefits are within the contributory system. [[Applauds]] For the socialists, this initiative forges a greater shielding of the social protection system and is the best guarantee for us to face situations of helplessness such as those contemplated by this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the reforms carried out so far have not provided solutions for orphans whose mothers had not contributed 500 days in the last five years, and much less for those whose mother-in-law had not been discharged from social security. Those minors are in absolute helplessness. Their life stories should make us reflect on the responsibility of the State for reparation. Socialists believe that the failure to consider this legal initiative would violate the comprehensive protection status designed by the Law against Gender-based Violence, which also benefits persons orphaned by this violence. Why? Simply because they're victims too. This amendment to the consolidated text of the General Social Security Act, which the Socialist Parliamentary Group is bringing to plenary today, also includes an increase of up to 70% of the regulatory base in the event that the mother does meet the minimum contribution requirements when the income of the family living unit falls below 75% of the inter-branch minimum wage. In addition, if there were more than one person benefiting from this pension, the amount could be around 118% of the regulatory base and would never be lower than the minimum equivalent to the widow's pension with family burdens. Only through clear legislation in this area can we also end the interpretations of an INSS which fights against the recognition of an orphan's pension to absolute orphans under literal interpretations that violate the aims of protection pursued in order to guarantee their insurance and protection and their tuitive purposes of the social security system. The Socialist Group is rebelled at the bureaucratic behaviour of an administration which claims that there is a lack of compliance with conditions of discharge or contribution and which is shielded by a literal interpretation of the legal rules to deprive minors of a necessary orphan's pension, who can nevertheless be recognized if they are brought before the Courts of Justice against their right, and put them back in that denied guardianship. We therefore need to give legal certainty to the guardians of these children and not to engage them in litigation before the State administration in search of the basic resources for the survival of these children. This certainly implies a new victimization on the part of the State to which we must put an immediate stop. [[Applauds]] Although we know that putting an end to silence is about highlighting the magnitude of the problem, I cannot tell you exactly how many minors in this country are left in absolute unprotectedness after living the traumatic loss of their mothers in a macho assault at the hands of their parent. I cannot tell you this because state registration systems do not quantify these situations, but we do know that almost every week a minor is included in the statistics of orphanhood for gender-based violence, and we also know that many of them do not receive any kind of benefit, despite the reforms that have been made so far. We know that around 20% of women killed in recent years were under the age of 30, and therefore the likelihood of having sufficient contributions is very low. This percentage is added to all those who, because of the circumstances associated with violent control strategies, were forced to leave jobs that guaranteed them economic independence. With these parameters we can estimate that much more than 50% of these orphans are in a situation of helplessness or defencelessness as a result of not receiving an orphan's pension. Now, through this initiative, we can have access to data for a full understanding of what is happening. We present a proposal for a law that avoids this legal uncertainty and that guarantees to all minors orphaned by this criminal violence the effective right to a sufficient amount of orphan's pension, in accordance with the constitutional mandate set out in articles 39 and 41 of the Constitution; a contributory pension inserted within our public pension system, which is the basic pillar of our welfare State. We need to make progress in consolidating the comprehensive status of protection of gender-based violence and, therefore, that of these orphans. Today we do so by proposing a law that continues the work of improving orphan pensions in gender-based violence. But this, ladies and gentlemen, will not be the only proposal of the Socialist Group. During the 10th Legislature we have already proposed a wide range of measures related to the taxation of persons taking care of these orphans, measures for their educational reinforcement, measures to remove regulatory obstacles that do not consider their special circumstances or the recognition that some rights of their mothers are derived from the welcoming people. Their rejection at the time will not cause us to give up demanding greater commitment from the State to these minors. I'm finishing up. We are completing the work of the subcommittee on a pact against violence against women. This House's unanimous adoption today of this bill will be a good prologue for us on the path that we all expect: unanimity in repulsation and unity in response. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u24	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. At the Forum, we will support the strengthening of protection for children who have been directly victims of gender-based violence. This is a very important issue and the Government has recently announced its decision to include it in the State Pact promoted here at the end of the year so that all children who are orphaned as a result of gender-based violence will receive an absolute orphan's pension. Ladies and gentlemen, there have just been a number of shocking arguments and figures in this rostrum about the drama of gender-based violence that justify the need to deepen the measures, but it would not be fair to reproach a matter in which progress has been made precisely because of very advanced measures that had not been covered by the 2004 comprehensive law. It was during Rajoy's first government that the change in the system of protection for children and adolescents was promoted, amending the Social Security Act so that these children could receive a full orphan's pension, which is 100 per cent of the regulatory base for the murdered mother. Therefore, this proposal for a socialist law to improve the orphan's pension for children who are victims of gender-based violence is not the most correct way because it proposes what is already in progress. Although Mrs Álvarez Álvarez has not said so, on this matter we are already working intensively and we thought that with unanimity here in the Congress of Deputies and also in the Senate. [[Denials by Mrs Álvarez Álvarez]] It was also a relevant topic at the Conference of Autonomous Presidents held only four months ago, where it was agreed to entrust the Government of Spain with the request for the convening of the General Commission of Autonomous Communities of the Upper House to hold a monographic debate incorporating their contributions to the work of the State Pact against Gender Violence. In any case, this consideration contributes to the message against gender-based violence and to the protection and reparation of victims, and there always, always, always, they will find us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we will logically vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration because it seems absolutely necessary to us, and also count on our two seats for everything that means the fight against violence against women, always. In addition, we would like to ensure that orphan pensions are definitively guaranteed for children who are victims of gender-based violence, that this pension is referred to as the inter-professional minimum wage, irrespective of whether or not their parent has contributed and of the years she has contributed, if any, and, lastly, that this pension is complementary to another type of benefit, as is already the case in the Foral Community of Navarre, where they have psychological assistance and also have educational support, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no coincidence that my group, the Navarro People's Union, is going to support this consideration and that we are once again pioneers as we were in 2002, with the first Gender Violence Act in this country. It is no coincidence that the first legal text that includes minors as victims of gender-based violence was the Foreign Law 14/2015, of 10 April, led by Unión del Pueblo Navarro, nor is it any coincidence that in Unión del Pueblo Navarro there is an Association called Blanca de Navarra, chaired by María José Vidorreta and formed by women whose only great mission is to combat gender-based violence. Therefore, always count on us in the fight against violence against women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u28	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Ciuro i Buldo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, in the Democratic Party we are going to vote in favour of this legislative initiative which the Socialist Group is presenting to us today. Minors must be protected, minors cannot be double victimized, and coverage for these minors, as planned today, is far from sufficient only for those whose mother was a social security contributor. We find very little of the measure announced by the minister when she said that it could be provided retroactively and not apply this protection only from 2015, so that minors could receive the orphan's pension. We also understand that one of the causes of gender-based violence is the prohibition of the mother from working. Therefore, within this form of violence we cannot help minors, who have the right to receive this compensation for their recovery and non-revictimization. Also in Catalonia since 2008 we have children included as direct victims of gender-based violence. Indeed, in this House, the messages that minors are victims of gender-based violence are echoed. I make a sentence that you have said, Mrs Alvarez, that gender-based violence mutates, it is true, it is sophisticated, and the comprehensive law was an excellent step, but I cannot understand why there is so much resistance to open, at least, the concept of protection that this law gives. As part of the work of the subcommission on gender-based violence, we cannot remain alone in protecting against domestic violence. If children had been included in 2004, we would have made a great deal of progress because they are the most needy interest in protection. In this spirit of consensus that you have offered here today, let us hope that there will be a good pact to end the macho violence. You will have our support for this consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that few words should be enough to get the support not of our group but of anyone else for an initiative like this. Since 2013, a total of 169 minors have been orphaned in Spain as a result of gender-based violence, and the truth is that it is a scourge that needs to be addressed in a special way, especially in view of the situation of special vulnerability in which minors remain. Although it has already been done, I will repeat a brief overview of the regulatory situation. The Organic Law 1/2004, on comprehensive protection measures against gender-based violence, initiated a protective first course of action for women victims of gender-based violence, which is particularly repugnant. This purpose was later extended to the comprehensive status of protection for minors in the family environment in which such violence occurs, through the Organic Act 8/2015 of 22 July 2015 on the protection of children and adolescents. The reason for the tuitive attitude of the law was to see that many of the children who were exposed to such violence were aggravated by the murder of their mother often at the hands of their parent. The purpose of the law should be to address the reality of the neglect of these orphans of mothers killed by gender-based violence, leading to double victimization, one because of their status as victims of this situation of violence and the other because of the insufficient legal regulation of this particular situation of orphanhood. This initiative is therefore aimed at correcting situations of orphanhood due to gender-based violence, either because they are not at high or similar to high and/or because of lack of contribution from the orphan's pensioner or when low-value pensions are caused that prevent recovery or comprehensive care of the orphan. Despite all the legal presumptions recognised to date with regard to women victims of gender-based violence, let us recall the fact that the period of suspension of the employment contract or the survivors' leave of the woman victim of violence or that her departure from the employment contract through voluntary termination confers on her the right to unemployment benefit, it is true that the protection was not yet complete until the assimilation of the cause of the orphan's pension to the fact of being discharged or to the disappearance of the requirement to certify fifteen years of contributions throughout her working life was made with sufficient legal clarity. In this regard, the proposals contained in the proposal for a law, following the doctrine emanating from a judgment of the Social Chamber of the High Court of Justice of Andalusia, seem not only reasonable but necessary. Let us remember, as has already been said, that they consist of the reform of article 224 of the General Law on Social Security, adding the expression 'or death would have occurred by gender violence' to understand the assimilation of the situation of discharge of the cause, the reform of articles 223.1 and 224 as regards the system of incompatibilities to allow precisely that in the event that the death occurred by gender violence the pension will be compatible with the recognition of another orphan's pension in any of the social security systems and the reform of articles 231 and 233 of the General Law on Social Security by establishing that the orphan's pension will be increased to 70 % of the regulatory base and even being able to reach 118% in the case of several beneficiaries. There are, however, some aspects worth discussing, such as the existence of several beneficiaries and their consequences or the framing of the provision in the relevant area of social security. It must be done, both in the presentation being made and in the Toledo Pact, to which this situation may be affected. However, given its content, it is only up to me to congratulate your proposer and announce our vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u32	Thank you very much. Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u33	Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that no one, of those present and of those who can hear us, likes to hear it, but the truth is that we live in a society in which homophobia, transphobia, biphobia and machism exist and coexist. That's the way it is and it has to be said that way. Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya will denounce the times when it takes women to be raped by the mere fact of being women, and that trans people, for example, are raped by the transphobia and the damn heteronormative system that prevails and that is very installed in our society. All these violences - I repeat, all - are the product of a macho society, violences that are exercised in order to control our bodies, our sexuality and ultimately our life. It must be made clear, therefore, that the Machist violence cannot be assimilated with other violence, with none, and in no way are isolated cases, because indisputably they have the guiding thread in the system of oppression that supports them, which is - welcome - the perverse patriarchal system. This culture, the heteropatriarchal, always ends, always - do not doubt it - in an idea of masculinity and of femininity very concrete and accepted mostly, an idea that translates into the hegemony of domination, and it is here, right here, that we must influence and rewrite once and for all masculinity and the deconstruction of the concept of man-woman relationship, and do so evidently from freedom and equality. Allow me a license. Living in any corner of the world and being against equality on grounds of race, colour or sexual orientation is the same as living in Alaska and being against snow. That's ridiculous. Well, that's ridiculous and absurd. The sexist violence leaves orphans, it is very clear, many, very many; in fact too many, it seems to be that some forty boys and girls a year, because as the proposer has recalled, we have not even recently had any data, some 500 since the adoption of the Comprehensive Gender Violence Act in 2004. I repeat that these are estimated figures, as official accounting comes into force in 2013. These boys and girls are missing, but missing with all the letters, also from the public eye. They stay alone and alone, but luckily their life goes on. The murder of every woman victim of male violence is the savage end of her calvary, but the continuation of her children, so dependent on her or more than the deceased. It begins a tortuous personal but also social journey: a bureaucratic maze to access aids that are always scarce and dispersed, a social stigma many times because the killer is his own father and is also a secret to voices, everyone knows it, and an uncertain economic and educational future, and all this without talking about the trauma of growing up without a mother, which not a few have seen killed. The orphans of gender-based violence are, ladies and gentlemen, an absolutely invisible reality. In fact, since 2015, with the reform of the 2004 comprehensive law, they have considered direct victims of crime and potential beneficiaries of absolute orphan pensions, but police investigations - and I find absolutely nothing - and judicial decisions on crime and its consequences are never immediate, even in cases as fragile as these we are talking about; on the contrary, they have been months and even years. The raw reality is that these children have been abandoned to their fate. It is therefore absolutely essential to consider the concept of reparation for the damage as for the victims of terrorism, because, ladies and gentlemen, these minors are victims of another terrorism, macho terrorism. We are going to vote in favour of this bill, because we believe that reform of orphan pensions is absolutely necessary when the beneficiaries are victims of gender-based violence, in order to prevent situations of absolute defencelessness. We share, as it could not otherwise be, the essence of this initiative, hoping that the improvements proposed will be incorporated, in the same way that we hope and wish to end once and for all with this miserable scourge, and at the same time with the helplessness of orphans who are victims of macho violence. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u34	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, last March at this same Congress of Deputies, a tribute was made to Soledad Cazorla, in which I must confess that my hair was on top of my head. My hair got sharp when I heard the calvary that David, the brother of a murdered victim, of a victim of gender-based violence, was passing by to be able to adopt his niece. When she was only three years old, the girl had witnessed her father murdering her mother with a shot in the temple. With commendable courage David, his uncle, told us that from there began a calvary, but not only for the terrible murder, but also for all the administrative obstacles that were being encountered. He explained to us, for example, that the family had had to endure that his sister's killer received a widow's pension, while his niece was not receiving the orphan's pension. As this one mentioned to us some vicissitudes and nonsense more than, because of faults or gaps in the regulations, they were occurring and very much affected us urged all the deputies who were at that time - because we were women - to, please, make things a little easier for them. For we are in this, David, and at least from the Citizens Parliamentary Group we will try to do so. The proposal put to us by the Socialist Group focuses on one of the many things that we urgently need to fix. Among other things, as one of my colleagues has already suggested before, the concept of gender-based violence envisaged by the Comprehensive Law on Gender-based Violence excluded minors at the time; a ruling that was remedied in 2015, but that we have to continue to fix. This proposal by the Socialist Group aims to incorporate the children of victims of sexist violence as recipients of an orphan's pension, and for this we need to make a few minor amendments to the General Law on Social Security. This issue brought by the Socialist Group is not in fact of the PSOE, it has previously been dealt with by the Soledad Cazorla Foundation, as mentioned above, the first public prosecutor against the violence of the macho. And it is that Soledad, who died two years ago, has always emphasized that the most vulnerable and harmed by the macho violence were precisely minors, minors who not only lost their mother at the hands of their father, but also lost their father for his conviction and ended up living with close relatives, uncles or grandparents, who besides suffering what they had suffered from the murder had to take care of them without any help. Given the need to be able to help these children and avoid further grievances, the foundation created a system of scholarships for orphans of male violence. This was precisely the event we celebrated at the Congress of Deputies, which made this issue visible and demanded that we make reforms of the administrations. Since the adoption of the Comprehensive Gender Violence Act more than five hundred children have been in this situation, and the fact is that the impact of this measure presented here today is not high, but the help it entails is very great. There are minor changes, such as amending the wording of article 224 to include murder for macho violence as the generating event of the orphan's pension; or, for example, amending article 225 to recognize the compatibility of the orphan's pension for macho violence with other orphan's pensions; or amending the wording of article 233 to recognize the absolute orphan's pension for all victims of macho violence. I am going to go ahead with the Socialist Group, which, of course, will support this proposal. I am going to put two things to you: the first is that we are going to vote in favour and the second is that we are going to ask you for a favor. We are going to vote in favour because obviously, together with the rest of the groups, we are about to remedy those mistakes and for radically combating male-based violence. The favor we are going to ask of you is that you please do not use this subject again in this way, in a partisan way, because we are all against the struggle of this social scourge. This initiative that is presented today could have been agreed in the subcommission on gender-based violence that we have opened and that we are going to end in two weeks, or could have negotiated it with all the parliamentary groups for bringing it together, because obviously in this they will find us all. [[Applauds]] So let's start adopting small big changes, like those that David asked us to, to really make things a little easier for people like David and his niece. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u36	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u37	Good afternoon. Talking about the terrible, the tearing, it becomes uncomfortable, and as it moves us in the seat we can very quickly start to say that that is demagogic and that bringing pain to this House is, therefore, releasing speeches; however, I believe that bringing pain is what can allow us to reach political positions that assume it not as a concrete case, but as a social responsibility. That there are children and adolescents who have been left without a mother because their father has murdered her is not just an undeniable personal pain for them and their neighbors, but when we talk about dozens of murdered women every year it is a social responsibility. We are going to support this proposal for a law of the Socialist Group - this interests Angels - as they supported a similar proposal for a law that we bring to the Senate and that fell down the People's Group without blush - we will talk about this already. We have come to say that it is urgent to assume social responsibility for the violence of the macho, that we agree with this bill and that we will vote for it, but that we see it insufficient, because we understand that the victims of the violence of the macho must be equated with the victims of terrorism, and I am not saying that we have to talk about macho terrorism, because this would be to lose sight of what is a structural problem. What I'm saying is that we have to start assuming it as a social responsibility, because it is based on the patriarchal culture that we have to dismantle now and urgently. If we say that acting responsibly and decently is to take this as a matter of State. I ask the People's Group - although I have just heard that we have half the time, so I will go quickly - what it is to take something as a matter of State, what they think it is to take something as a matter of State. Is it, for example, to listen to the families of orphans speaking sincerely about the precarious economic, administrative and emotional situation in which they are about to, two days after doing so in this Congress, to overthrow in the Senate a law that is precisely trying to change that situation? By the way, March 8th; I said I was going to make them blush, and I think it's to make them blush down such a law on March 8th and then say they're worried about male violence and equality in this country. [[Applauds]] Or is it, for example, that the Government obliterates the investment in the State Pact in an absolute way in the State General Budgets? Or what? Are we gonna leave him for next year? Isn't he in a hurry? I don't know, they don't think he's in a hurry anyway. How do you take something like a matter of state? Do you believe that it is politically responsible to assume the situation in our country, that women in our country are living and that they are going through our entire society? By the way, I'm gonna ask you something else. Do you know if the Minister of Justice continues to think, as he did in 2015, that Cedaw's recommendations do not force Spain? Okay, okay. And do you think, for example, that common sense and pro-common sense, after the murder last week in Galicia of a child, starts to force a little? Move it. In the short time that I have left I just want to say to you that I do know that there are Members on the bench of the People's Group who take this tremendously seriously, so please listen to them, and that when there are vetoes of other measures that fight for equality and against macho violence - which is not only done in the subcommittee of the State Pact, but also is done by trying to make that equality real, by fighting the wage gap and having equal permits - listen to them, because I do not think they feel that these vetoes are useful for what they are working for. So all I have to say is that we are going to support the consideration of this law, which seems to us to be insufficient, and that we hope to find much more social responsibility, because the batteries have to be put on. They're killing us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u38	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States, Mrs Belarra Urteaga also has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u39	Thank you, President. Although this comprehensive law against violence against women is of 2004, we know that boys and girls were not considered direct victims until 2015, until the year in which this law was reformed. This is an example of how we still live in an eminently adult-centric culture that still does not regard boys and girls as subjects, as citizens of full right. This is also reflected in the interventions of the other participants who continue to refer to boys and girls as minors. They are not minors, they are children, they are citizens of their own right. We are going to support this bill because we have already tabled a very similar text in the Senate, which the Socialist Party also supported, and today we are going to support it because we think that we really need to guarantee decent living conditions for all orphans and orphans on grounds of sexist violence; everyone has the right to receive 100 per cent of the pension. From the United States We can also defend that these pensions are compatible with other aids and that we do not focus on deductions from the IRPF, as the People's Party has consistently done, but rather on having measures that really help those families that have more serious poverty and exclusion situations, such as child support, which would be a good measure that should also be supported. We believe that it is essential to reduce the deadline for receiving aid to a minimum, because, as the previous speaker said, bureaucratic procedures are widening so much that they are becoming victimized, revictimizing children on many occasions. Of course we and we will bet, as always, on quality psychological care. It is not only a question of guaranteeing material living conditions, but also of accompanying these boys and girls so that they become victims, once and for all, of being survivors, just like women. That is why we need expert psychological help, public and quality educational programmes to help them through this complex traumatic situation, because those programmes are going to break, once and for all, with the cycle of violence, and they are going to allow those children to lead a normalized life; and especially because therapy is going to help those children to answer two questions that are very important and that are fundamental: why does this continue to hurt as if it had happened yesterday? Why is the person who should have loved me most the one who hurt me the most? Well, for those who still think that boys and girls do not know, we say yes, that boys and girls do, and that it is our obligation to put all the psychosocial and human means at their disposal to enable them to transform that pain and give it meaning, as Cyrilnik would say, and to accompany them - as he said - in the transition from being victims to survivors. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u40	Thank you very much. Mrs Reina has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u41	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, last Friday another woman died stabbed by her partner in Madrid. Another male murder with minor children in the middle. Twenty-five women have already been killed by gender-based violence this year. For the People's Party and for this Government, the fight against gender-based violence is a matter of State. That is why we are going to accept this bill, for a simple reason, because it is the will of this Government and this group that all minors orphaned by sexist violence should have an orphan's pension, regardless of whether their mother had contributed to social security or not. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about children who have lost their mother to their partner or former partner and who are innocent victims of this terrible situation. When a woman is murdered by her partner, when she has minor children, the consequences of this crime are cruelly transferred to the children, and the suffering of the children is further compounded by the absence of a protective situation. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party will always be in the process of improving the protection of the children of victims of gender-based violence. A Member of the People's Party has said here that there are Members of the People's Party who take this seriously. No, Your Honor, all Members of the People's Party take gender-based violence as it is, macho terrorism, Your Honor, and we will not stop until this scourge of our society is eradicated. [[Applauds]] In the 10th Legislature, the Government, which was sensitive, already responded by means of Law 26/2015 on Amendment of the System for the Protection of Children and Adolescents, and an injustice, a great injustice, has been corrected - it has already been said here - in such a way that we have been able to recognize the children the recovery of the full orphan's pension, the famous Castle amendment. On 6 March, Minister Montserrat, Dolors Montserrat, said that work was under way with the Ministry of Employment to make this amendment retroactive, so that the full pension could also be collected by 2015. And I take this opportunity to remind you that it was a People's Party government that first recognized minors as victims of gender-based violence. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, much progress would have been made if you had recognized it when you made the law at the time. Welcome to that concern for minors. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree on the substance of this bill, but not on the form. It is true that it is a social justice issue, but in this proposal there are legal issues that need to be improved. You know that orphan pensions are contributory, clearly contributory; and as this proposed law is drafted, the orphan pension would become a net non-contributory pension; that is, it would entail a profound change in the legal nature of this benefit. You want to call contributor to something that is not contributory, and I remind you, first of all, of recommendation 13 of the Toledo Pact, which defends the maintenance of the contributory nature of orphaning. But also in the same Toledo Pact the Socialist Party did not want to go into assessing a proposal from the Workers' Commissions, and it is that the orphan and widowhood pensions are financed through the State's General Budgets, because they say they would lose the contributory character, but here they pose a hybrid, with a loss of a net contributory character. I believe it is a political inconsistency that is said one thing in the Toledo Pact and another here. [[Denials by Mrs Álvarez Álvarez]] Maybe after Sunday you all agree. We believe that if it is not contributory it will have to be in place of the benefits financed with the contributions of the State to social security, because the reality is that you propose that a non-contributory pension be paid with social contributions; we believe that it must be financed from the general budgets of the State. This is precisely the separation of the sources of funding in which we are working on the Toledo Pact. I would like to make it very clear that, within the framework of the State Pact, the will of the Government is that no child victim of gender-based violence can be left without a pension. I believe that it can be said louder, but no clearer, and we believe that the solution is to discuss this issue, both in the Toledo Pact and in the subcommittee. I certainly find it very sad - as the Member of the European Parliament has said - that the opening of the Toledo Pact and the subcommission in the Equality Commission did not discuss this issue there first with all the groups, but that it was brought here. But at the same time, we agree on the substance and will be negotiated in the Toledo Pact and in the subcommission, because, as I say to you, we understand that the right thing would be to create a non-contributory orphan pension. We believe that it is essential to maintain a separate regulation of both levels of protection - the contributory and the non-contributory - and the final word will be the Toledo Pact in which, as I say to you, we do believe. I insist, the will of Minister Dolors Montserrat, Minister Báñez and this group is that all minors orphaned by sexist violence receive a pension, regardless of the working situation of the murdered mother. I conclude, Madam President, with a sentence from the former UN Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, who said that we all had to be together and united because gender-based violence will not be eradicated until we all refuse to tolerate it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u42	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u43	We turn to the third item on the agenda concerning non-legislative proposals. First, we begin with the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group on the rejection and condemnation of all kinds of violent acts. Mrs Blanco Garrido has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u44	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to this rostrum to defend an initiative that we not only consider important, but also necessary, from the People's Parliamentary Group, because the aim of it is that today we can send to all citizens a message of unity, exemplary and unbiased condemnation of all the violent acts that may undermine our democratic system, of all the acts of violence that take place in our country and outside our borders. I can assure you that in your condemnation you will always find the members of the People's Parliamentary Group, and I hope that the others here, because our democratic system is incompatible with any act of violence that violates freedom, dignity and peaceful coexistence among the Spaniards, where there is therefore no room for violent attitude or coercion in order to defend a political or ideological position. That is why it is the duty and obligation of all democratic parties to reject and condemn, categorically and systematically, any conduct of a violent nature, regardless of the pretexts or ideology in which they are based. Ladies and gentlemen, violence is neither right nor left, violence is simply violence; therefore, there is no justification for it. Anyone who is considered a Democrat must condemn its use and all public representatives must appeal to peaceful coexistence, tolerance and condemnation of all acts that want to end it, without apologizing, without minimizing in any case facts that may undermine the freedom and integrity of persons. As I said, violence is violence and never freedom of expression, ladies and gentlemen, as some of you claim to justify harassment of certain public representatives, depending, of course, on who is being directed and who is carrying it out. Ladies and gentlemen, the response to violence should not allow either warm cloths or partisan filters of any kind; violence is violence from where it comes from and, therefore, it is everyone's obligation to maintain the position of zero tolerance. Crimes must be prosecuted, crimes punished always and at all times, regardless of their surname, regardless of their protagonist and regardless of where the crime was committed. All institutions, of course, should raise their voices in the face of the use of violence, but I say they should because, unfortunately, this is not always the case, because in places such as Alsasua and Leiza, among other municipalities, political groups that are now ruling these institutions do not only prevent but promote and justify attitudes of rejection, xenophobia and hatred against people representing State institutions or public servants. In that regard, this debate should serve to have some political group present here - and yes, I mean Bildu - show an express condemnation of terrorism, show a condemnation of its criminal history and, by the way, ask for its dissolution, something which they have so far refused to pronounce. Ladies and gentlemen, no form of physical or verbal violence can be tolerated and all of them, regardless of the context in which they occur, must receive the rejection and condemnation of the political forces and, of course, the consequences provided for in the law. Therefore, from the People's Party we will condemn, we will always reject and combat any violent attitude, any kind of aggression, coercion or intimidation. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to reflect on whether you are doing so with the same determination that this party condemns violent acts. Ladies and gentlemen, when the seats of political parties are attacked, it is violence and it must be condemned without palliatives and without justification; when the public office is threatened and coerced, it is violence and not freedom of expression, as I mentioned earlier; when the members of the State Security Forces and Corps are attacked, it is violence and we must condemn it and show our solidarity instead of turning them into the bad guys in the film, into culprits, and then receiving as a model victims the relatives of the aggressors. Or is it that, ladies and gentlemen, attacks on the seats of political parties are justified depending, of course, on who that political option is? On the other hand, is harassment of public offices justified because they are simply not, for example, of the People's Party? The answer is clearly no, ladies and gentlemen, because when such actions are justified by the mere fact of belonging to a particular political option, not only is a parliamentary group offended, not only is a political party offended, but it also offends each of the citizens who have placed their trust in each of us. [[Applauds]] Frankly, it is hard to understand that in the twenty-first century events that are more typical of other times continue to occur when people are being attacked for defending ideas, whatever they may be. In the condemnation of violence there can never be a double measuring rod, ladies and gentlemen, because either you are with the victims or you are with the aggressors and the People's Party will always be with the victims and their families, never alongside the aggressors, Members of the United States We can, because we will always be next to those who defend freedom, we will always be next to those who defend coexistence and the rule of law, here and in Venezuela, because we are still waiting for an explicit condemnation from you. [[Applauds]] Yes, gentlemen of the United States We can, we are waiting for an explicit condemnation of the facts that are unfortunately happening day after day in Venezuela. [[Mr. Delgado Ramos gives small blows to the cheek with his hand]] No, don't do me like that because you know I'm right. I told them that the People's Party will always be on the side of the victims, and in this regard the Statute of the Victims of Crime is a response to the commitment of the Government of the People's Party to recognize and ensure the rights of all victims of any crime. It is a response to this Government's firm commitment to show our appreciation, affection, support and solidarity to all those who have been victims, and also, of course, we must show our support for the State Security Forces and Corpses, a determined support for the work of all those who protect the rights and freedoms of people every day, because we have State Security Forces and Corpses, ladies and gentlemen, who function with intelligence in the service of all. That is why, when attacked, they deserve our condemnation, they deserve our support and they deserve our solidarity. [[Applauds]] What they should never perceive from any political representative is the feeling of emotion conveyed by Mr. Iglesias when he saw the aggression suffered by a national police officer by some demonstrators. This, ladies and gentlemen, is unacceptable, outrageous and humiliating. What we must do is to make young people, and not so young, aware that no cause, no protest, no demand can be made using violence and that public spaces, as their own name indicates, must be spaces of tolerance, understanding, respect and coexistence. I'm finishing up, Madam President. Violence is unacceptable in a democracy and must therefore be strongly rejected by democratic institutions and by all those we consider to be democrats. Therefore, from the People's Parliamentary Group we believe that no one who is called a Democrat, I repeat, no one who is called a Democrat and who believes that violence has no justification or ever had, can reject this initiative. So all we hope is that it will be adopted and voted for by all the parliamentary groups. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u45	As no amendments were tabled, we moved on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is always good to reiterate from the seat of national sovereignty the rejection of violence as a method of achieving political objectives. [[The Lord]] It is part of the DNA of our democracy to be able to defend ideas with the word and to guarantee political pluralism and alternation in conditions of freedom. In Spain we know a lot about fighting against the strategists who use violence to obtain political advantages; a strategy explained with that damn phrase that there are trees to be driven and nuts to be collected. In fact, there are still some of your top interpreters teaching democracy lessons in some parliaments such as Navarra. Therefore, a society that did not condemn terror, that did not act against violence of political intent, that would normally accept that its executioners could be victims, that would stop celebrating victories against hatred or that would abandon the defense of everything that violence wanted to destroy, would be a lost society, a exhausted society. I, of course, nor my party, want that for Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, today I take advantage of this timely proposal to thank the State Security Forces and Bodies, which are always working to defend the society we have. Next year marks the 50th anniversary of the assassination of Corporal Guard José Pardines Arcay. It is true that the rule of law has overcome terrorism, which Spanish democracy has won, but totalitarians still maintain some positions of institutional representation from which they continue to justify hatred. That is why, as someone said, the price of our freedom must remain our eternal vigilance and not lower the guard. I end by sending a message of solidarity, dear Marimar, to all the victims of hatred, especially to all those who, in the face of the unjust and unjustifiable death of their loved ones, have never responded with more hatred or revenge. Your answer is probably the most noble and exemplary of our society. You are neither alone nor alone, nor will you be forgotten or forgotten. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u48	Thank you, President. Violence is all. I read textually the PNL explanatory statement: It is the duty of all democratic parties to reject and systematically condemn any behaviour of a violent nature. I repeat, any behavior of a violent nature. I only highlight this more than anything because the rest, the proposals, are an ode to nothing. You, who abstained when we proposed to legislate against hate crimes, are now calling for us in Parliament to stand with a GNP that does nothing and speaks only of the evils that come from outside. Honestly, coming from the government's party, it's to cry. In December, it was adopted in the Commission that the Government should develop a law on hate crimes, and today nothing. Also in December, it was approved by the Commission that the State Security Forces and Bodies should have a register of hate crimes, and today nothing. We will see what they are doing with the parliamentary initiative that Compromís registered last week to ensure that agents are promoted with clean files. Do you know what you've done? Raising officials pardoned with sentences for torture, and that is also violence; ignoring the suffering of refugees, and that is also violence; closing eyes to the extermination of homosexuals in other countries, such as Chechnya, and that is also violence; not investing a single euro in victims of sexist violence, and that is also violence. So, they're called Democrats? If they put it in their GNP, they're not that much. Today they come with this paripé, just a week after they also abstained from historic memory PNL. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the victims of fascism are also victims of violence, whether they like it or not. So stop pantomimes and wet paper and do what you have to do: really legislate to fight violence and hate crimes. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Sorlí. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u50	Thank you, President. Thank you, gentlemen. We are going to vote in favour, it would only be missing! That being said, the truth is that it is quite alarming. Not at all alarming is the non-law proposal, what is alarming is that they feel the need to repeat the same sentences so often. How far do you think he's going? Maybe you think they don't do enough? That we sympathize with all the victims of repression? Of course. That we should stand in solidarity with those who defend our rights and freedoms? Of course. Or are we going to say something else? Someone has said it in other words, this GNP adds nothing. With all due respect to the saint of Compostela, I call such propositions botafumeiro, because they add nothing to the sacrament, simply a little smoke and a little smell. [[Applauds]] Having said that, of course you will have our vote in favour, just like last week in relation to that of historical memory. You'll both have it. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Guillaumes. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u52	Thank you very much, President. We are being debated a non-legislative proposal concerning the condemnation of all kinds of acts of violence supported by ideological positions, as well as their justification; facts such as those we are being subjected to these days in the form of paintings and posters in our headquarters, throwing garbage inside and others of similar violent nature. Solidarity with victims of violence is also included in the non-legislative proposal. The general nature of the subject - as has already been made clear - of the proposal, both in its operative part and in its explanatory statement, makes us doubt what the parliamentary group which is presenting it for debate in this plenary, beyond, as has been said, to emphasize the obvious, which we obviously gave it as discarded, that is, that violence has no place in our society to defend a political or ideological position. Nor do we know very well what it means when it is proposed at its second point to reject any kind of anti-democratic act or conduct that attacks coexistence in peace and freedom, undermining the foundations of our democracy. And we do not know what it means because the whole proposition revolves around the idea of rejection of acts of violence or violent behaviors in order to defend a political or ideological position; acts of violence that we can only understand in the sense of force over the person or absolute vis, and in the sense of intimidation or the threat of causing a serious evil, causing serious fear or compulsive vis, as contemplated by the penal regulations. Nor do we know what is being pursued by mixing acts of violence in the criminal sense or of administrative unlawful acts such as those covered by the Law on Citizen Security, with those which are said to be anti-democratic acts or conduct that undermine the foundations of our democracy. We will therefore call for a separate vote on this second point in the non-legislative motion. As far as the rest of the proposal is concerned, almost all of us felt that we understood some reference in the proposal to refer to the so-called hate crimes and to their condemnation and solidarity with their victims, and we will now refer to them for their uniqueness in our society. It is hate crimes that have already been dealt with in various committees in this legislature as a result of different initiatives, as there is a deep concern of the groups in this House for their growth not only in the State but in our Western societies as a whole. The reports of the Ministry of the Interior on hate crimes indicate a continuous increase of the same year to year, and what is most worrying, makes us guess a dark figure of these crimes that are not reported, because their victims are precisely the most vulnerable of the citizens and their confidence in the institutions is surely directly proportional to their own vulnerability. Ladies and gentlemen, hate crimes are directed against people for belonging to a group with a common characteristic, such as their sexual orientation, ideology, alienation, religion, race or ethnicity, socio-economic level, etc. As the OSCE points out, these are criminal acts motivated by injury to a group of people who are assaulted because they are vulnerable segments of the population to the extent that they are minorities. Therefore, we share the need to give an integral response to this phenomenon of contempt for the different, especially when it is a vulnerable minority, comprehensive policies and comprehensive approach that contemplate these violent discriminatory acts from all angles: preventive measures, awareness-raising measures, measures on the media and in public-private collaboration, as well as support for victims and their groups, measures of solidarity and institutional support, and as a last resort, also punitive measures if necessary beyond the existing penal provisions. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Therefore, we consider it urgent to undertake a study on the origin, causes, vulnerable groups and the measures to be implemented in order to fight more effectively and efficiently against this scourge which is hate crimes in our society, which puts us in a dramatic way in the face of ignorance, as this always serves as a starting point for some kind of hatred, hatred towards what is not known or known through topics, as Jean-Claude Grumberg demonstrates throughout his theatrical work, especially in Serlo or not, to end the Jewish question, which I recommend to you. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief in this fashion of PNL Milli Vanilli, PNL which remains very well, but which serve absolutely nothing, only for photography, like that of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party which asked to remove Franco from the Fallen Valley from his heirs. Today they bring us a similar GNP and it is called rejection of all kinds of violence. It would be much more, gentlemen of the PP! We reject all kinds of violence and also all kinds of hypocrisy. But, taking advantage of this boast that you are having of Gandian pacifism, we want to talk to you about another kind of violence, of which both you and your orange and red subsidiary always forget: Violence, gentlemen of the PP, is also to receive with carpets rich and sticks and with concertinas poor with a burden of 60 kilos behind their backs in El Tarajal. That's violence, too, and they never comment on it. Violence, gentlemen of the PP, also means that what breaks a country with 11 million poor and 43% youth unemployment is an urn in Catalonia. That's violence, too, and they never comment on it. Violence is also that today our colleague Francesc Homs cannot be here after putting ballot boxes in an electoral school, but that Guillem Aguló's killer, Pedro Cuevas, could be here after stabbing him. [[Applauds]] That's violence, too. Violence is also that a Catalonian viscera delivers Democrats in a parliament and so cheap a face to the sun to fascists in funerals of fascists. That's violence, too, and they never comment on it. Violence is also to present a budget that spends more than €7 billion in defense and just over 800 in culture. I understand that what they want people to read are the instructions from the tanks. That's violence, too. Violence is not to pay the 200 000 euros that it costs to bury in Moncada a step at the level of Closeness that has already caused 170 deaths and, instead, to pay 4 million euros at the stop of the AVE of a people of one hundred inhabitants, Otero de Sanabria. That's violence, too. Violence means that the lack of respect is to call a gangster a gangster and, instead, normality is to ask for bites from a seat. That's violence, too. Violence is to see his partner, José María Aznar, boasting of having lied in prime time and, instead, José Couso's brother demanding responsibilities for his brother's death fourteen years later. That's violence too, gentlemen of the PP. Violence is that there are more police in student demonstrations than in the control of passports at El Prat airport. That's violence too, gentlemen of the PP. Violence is that in a country where 47% of workers charge less than 1000 euros, its Minister of Employment, Fatima Báñez, says that they lie and that they are not exiled, but adventurous. That's violence, too. Violence, in fact, is that they worry more about what happens in Caracas than in the Royal Cañada. This is violence, too. Or that you kidnap the Venezuelan ambassador for six hours and you say that nothing happens and that it's your fault that you're on the left. That's violence, too. Violence is also that your number two Interior says more pimp than an eight, I repeat, more pimp than an eight, than meeting with defendants, with the 'Dalton brothers', 'Ignacio Dalton', are mandangas or imaginations of ours. That's violence, too, and they don't say much about it. Violence is also that women encamped against feminicides in the Puerta del Sol have a policeman so that they don't put on music and instead don't have him so that they don't kill them. That's violence, too. Violence is that you have a new headquarters in Soto del Real. This is violence, too. And violence is that you believe that breaking ballot boxes solves everything in Catalonia. It's also because of the fact that they break hard drives at their headquarters. In short, all these 'tambiéns' and violence fall on their consciences. Violence is you too, gentlemen of the PP. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u55	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Julià Julià has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to do our best to ensure that this society, which is sometimes punished by history, finds now, in an order that margins extremism, a freedom that does not offer an alibi for violence, a new opportunity for harmony, normality and civil peace. These are the words of former President Suárez before the 1978 referendum, which seems to have been forgotten by some. I rise to this rostrum with the pride of representing the Citizens Parliamentary Group, which, unfortunately, is well aware of the issue we are debating today. Unfortunately, it seems that some of those who are here do not like that we raise the voice to defend the equality of the Spaniards and the unity of Spain. They want to frighten us with violence and hence our headquarters suffer vandalic attacks almost every day, especially in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the show of hatred that some political leaders are generating in Catalonia. [[Show me a picture.-A lady MP: Come on!]] This is the show, vandalistic acts in our headquarters, but this violence is not only manifesting itself in material damage, ladies and gentlemen; our comrades are suffering aggression and death threats. Without going any further, our spokesman at Hospitalet's headquarters, to whom they recently broke their faces for defending the union of the Spaniards. And finally, despite these attacks, some of the ladies and gentlemen here today are mocking that our spokesman in the Parliament of Catalonia, Inés Arrimadas, is under the obligation to be escorted. Right, Mr. Rufián? [[Applauds]] I'm sure you're against violence, as you explained a moment ago, but I don't think the definition of violence has been well read. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, I remind you that not many months ago the Congress was surrounded during the investiture session and those of you who went out to greet and cheer attacked and insulted some of our Members. We continue to wait for the condemnation of these facts on your part, although how are you going to condemn those cans, lighters and bottles and those macho insults to deputies and citizens' workers if this very morning we saw Mr. Iglesias and Mr. Cañamero leave the building to sympathize with Andrés Bódalo, an individual - he was the first on his list - who is serving prison for assaulting a political office of the Socialist Party and who has four convictions for violence? According to a worker, Eva Rico - I don't know if you will know -, this gentleman participated in a picket that assaulted her when she was six months pregnant, ladies and gentlemen. They insulted her, threatened her - I quote textually -, zarandere her, pinched her with the sticks of the flags, pulled her out of the window and threw her to the ground. I was six months pregnant. These characters are the referents that the U.S. Ladies and Gentlemen We can assume they respect. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, your repeated lack of condemnation of these attacks indicates that they are supported in a rather irresponsible manner and your silence complicit only in encouraging such violence, cultural violence that we must also prevent. Do not forget that these attacks are not only born out of your radicality or from other people who are with you, but that the people you endorse are also very radical. To those who feel here alluded to, I will tell you that political reality changes from dialogue, from debate, from consensus, from respect and never with a stone in hand. And I tell you something else; these violent acts make us have much more courage, ladies and gentlemen, because attacks on the headquarters, on our comrades, on members of political parties are not personal attacks, but attacks on freedom and democracy, and we are not going to go through that. [[Applauds]] The values and principles of Spanish society, ladies and gentlemen, are far above any violent act. For this reason, all parties must join in this condemnation, although I assume that some, unfortunately, will not do so this afternoon. Without going further, in October it was not possible to approve the institutional declaration condemning the attacks on the civilian guards of Alsasua because the lords of Bildu, Esquerra Republicana and Partit Democrata Català did not want to join the side of peace and did not condemn the violence. I'm done, Mr. President. How can some representatives of our citizens sitting here not condemn violence? How can responsible representatives in our rule of law not condemn violence? Violence is always violence, ladies and gentlemen, and it is not justified in this House. The raw reality is that these attacks are motivated only by hatred against those who do not think like them and by their lack of arguments. That is why we will vote in favour of this initiative and I would say to the People's Parliamentary Group that since it is the group that supports the Government of the nation, they should do less GNP to fill in quotas and do more to ensure that the law and justice are respected. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u57	Thank you very much, Mrs. Julià. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs García Puig has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u58	Good afternoon. Good afternoon. To the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea we are glad that they put on the table a subject as serious as violence, but we are very saddened by the intentions with which they do it. You remind me of any nightly musical group that, when things get ugly, they always resort to their great classics: Venezuela last week or the condemnation of violence as a stick to beat political opponents today. However, one thing is clear; no soundtrack is going to sound louder than the sound of corruption cases stalking your party. [[Applauds]] A sound that has opened up a democratic emergency situation in which this group is going to present a motion of censure to you in the near future. Just see how Citizens have soon learned this strategy, perhaps to divert attention from their pacts with a corrupt party. We do want to talk about the fight against violence, and this fight is demonstrated by facts and not only by will. The objective of my intervention is to show you how the Government of your party has not carried out or is proposing a real fight against violence. Hate crimes are one of the most worrying forms of violence in our country. You yourself quote it in your GNP and the collectives who fight this type of violence warn of alarming growth. A significant case is that of LGTBIphobia. As the observatory warns, in the Community of Madrid, where you govern, aggression occurs every day and a half. However, despite this situation and the concern shown in the GNP presented to us, there is no explicit programme or part of the Ministry of the Interior dedicated to hate crimes in the draft General Budgets of the State of your Government. Nor is there any mention in the article. If we talk about violence, it is imperative to talk about male violence. There have been thirty-nine feminicides in what we've been doing all year. Again, the facts show that macho violence is not a priority for his Government. As the Platform for Feminist Entities has denounced Gender Impact Ya, the allocation for the prevention of gender violence in these budgets they present is still 10.8% lower than the 2010 budget. Since 2010, 825 women have been killed, which is more than enough reason for women not to continue to humiliate women year after year in their budgets. I invite you to give serious consideration to the more than one thousand six hundred amendments that the Confederal Group has tabled to its budgets, many of them in the area of equality that reflect the demands of collectives and people who fight daily against male-based violence. That would be to fight violence, gentlemen of the People's Group. [[Applauds]] In their GNP they also talk about the State Security Forces and Bodies and it is justice that they do so. Our group recognizes the immense work they do, most of the time without the necessary resources, because the unified police union has denounced, for example - I quote textually - the shortage of human resources and the workload of brigades for gender-based violence. I invite you to stop writing PNL as smoke bombs and to work urgently to fill this lack of resources; that would be fighting violence. I would like to end by saying that violence always rages on the weakest, those who live in precarious conditions. I would like to say to you, gentlemen of the People's Group, that you go out to the streets and you will find these people; women who are so discriminated against at work, people without resources who sleep on the street, immigrants without papers, victims of macho violence who live with their enemy because they have nowhere to go. Thanks to the austerity measures of his Government, 28% of people in Spain today live at risk of poverty or social exclusion. It is to them, to the most vulnerable, to whom we must especially protect. In order to free them from violence, we need budgets and policies that do not leave anyone behind, and those are not yours, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, no matter how much GNP they disguise themselves. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u59	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Go ahead and support all victims of violence wherever they are, wherever they are and who are victims of any kind of violence. The People's Parliamentary Group brings to debate a non-legislative proposal that is a tailor's drawer, in which we talk about everything, we even talk about the United States, that is, without naming Donald Trump, perhaps as a preventive measure because today it is about freedom and coexistence. We must not be convinced that the defence of democracy and its values is the task of all; we know very well who are men of peace and who are not. As Ramón Rubial said, it is infinitely better and easier to make revolution from the official newsletter than from violence, and that is the criterion that we have been applying for a long time in the management of municipalities, parliaments, autonomous communities and the Government of Spain. A moment ago someone said in this rostrum that the PSOE had no history. I'll tell you what my party's recent history is. The history of Spain in this country cannot be written without the Socialist Party; the development of democracy, the rule of law and the institutions of our country cannot be written without the PSOE. This party has 140 years of history and we have always been defending freedom, coexistence and equality; I do not know where others have been, but in these 140 years, for not moving from that place from which we are not going to move, many of my comrades have suffered imprisonment, exile and even given their lives to defend these values. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, how will we not be in favour of coexistence? As I read his proposal, I was led by scenes of burning flags, attacks on party seats that have already been mentioned here, but also by violence in sports stadiums, the use of social networks as a tool for insulting or racist statements in the face of the tragedy of refugees. Also much more dramatic episodes that have to do with the murder covered in ideological differences. All these behaviors and attitudes we are obliged to stop them as legislators and public representatives, and here, as public representatives, we sometimes look out when where we have to start setting an example is within the institutions. [[The lady]] That is why my group does not think that a senator should use the rostrum to break the picture of the president of the Autonomous Community of Andalusia and what action, in an attempt to fix it on a social network, to call it a worm. We believe that this is not the way, ladies and gentlemen. These behaviours must be removed from the institutions and society, since they do not help in any way to foster a climate of coexistence in our country and we must all show our rejection. Your proposal opens the debate on the substance, in which we will always agree with you and we have been demonstrating it, but it also opens it on the form, and it is there, in the form, where we will maintain deep differences with you. The defence of the security forces and bodies must not become a common place in Parliament. The words are carried by the wind, but the official bulletin remains in time, and whether it remains. We can talk about the good work that security forces and bodies do to infinity. We have many good examples to talk about, but we must also talk about the resources they have to do their work, the conditions under which they do it, or their rights as public workers. We can also talk about how the security forces and bodies have to go around the traps that you set them on their way to catch those who plunder the citizens' pocket and get rich because of it; by the way, most of them linked to the People's Party. The citizens, Mrs Blanco, are also offended by corruption, by the corruption that you defend. If we want to support the forces and security forces, in addition to words of encouragement and necessary resources, we must be vigilant so that those who lead them are at the same level of exemplaryness. In this sense, I remind you of some things that are happening in this legislature. At present, there are two ministries under suspicion in this country; nothing more and nothing less than Justice and the Interior. A committee of inquiry has been opened in this House, a minister has been asked to be reprimanded and a secretary of state has been asked to resign. This is not a good example either for the security forces and bodies or for the citizens, this does not generate confidence in the institutions and this is not a reflection of the values of a democratic system. In short, we believe that together we are joining forces in continuing to uphold democratic values and foster coexistence in our country, but do not hesitate that we will continue to denounce and fight against behaviours and attitudes that are alienated from the promotion of freedom and equality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u61	Thank you very much. The Vasco Group, PNV, has requested a point vote. I ask the spokesman of the initiative's sponsor group whether he accepts the point vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u62	No, Madam President. It is voted on its own terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u63	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations may, in common, on the approval of the agricultural income and the agricultural subsidy in a special agricultural system, more agile, which eliminates discrimination and guarantees against the rights of workers in the rural environment. [[File number 162/000381]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u64	We then discuss the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the approval of agricultural income and agricultural subsidy in a more agile special agricultural system, which eliminates discrimination and guarantees the rights of rural workers. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Cañamero Valle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, this pack of asparagus is the recognition for three thousand workers currently in Navarre taking asparagus, because in Andalusia there are no newspapers to be able to have that right to the agricultural subsidy and to the PER. [[Shows a bundle of asparagus in your hand]] It is also a recognition for the workers of the Sierra de Cadiz, as there are more than a thousand working in France right now. [[Applauds]] Having said that, to understand what I am going to propose here, we have to go back to the 1960s. In Andalusia, in the 1960s, an accelerated mechanization began. It was the golden age of Francoism and dictatorship, when tractors, machinery, and hundreds of workers were unemployed, without any alternative to having to emigrate. Where? Catalonia, the Basque Country, Madrid, Valencia and even Europe. We stayed in Andalusia five hundred thousand laborers, more so many in Extremadura, six hundred thousand laborers without work, without possibilities, without agrarian reform, without processing industry, with absolutely nothing. This was the outbreak of a social mobilization and there was no more remedy on the part of the government of the dictatorship than to invent the PER. Some believe that it was the socialists who invented the PER. No, the PER was invented in 1971, it was called community employment and it was more than nothing to finance public order; those peoples who fought were given a few amounts so that they would not continue to fight, that they would not occupy farms and that they would not be distributed in the courtyards as in the times of the Republic. That was, fundamentally, what was invented in 1971. Then, in 1983, when the Socialist Party won the elections, the socialist government invented what they call PER, which has three legs: training course, rural employment plan and the subject of agricultural subsidy. These are the three legs. He then came to the Aznar Government in 2002, changing that system and inventing agricultural income. In short, these are the three systems that have been happening in Andalusia, and we find today that there are no newspapers because of accelerated mechanization, because workers have arrived from other places, because the economic crisis has caused the people of the rural environment who were on the coast to return to our peoples. We have entered this factory, which even though it has no door and no roof is our factory; it has been converted and we need dignity and justice. One cannot depend on the will of an entrepreneur to be entitled to this ridiculous subsidy of EUR 426. We can't be at the expense of the businessman or the mayors to sign newspapers that don't exist, that don't exist. This is what we are putting forward with this GNP, that everyone understands that in Andalusia the hands of agricultural workers have no work, there is not enough work, and because there is not enough work, you cannot depend on the entrepreneur or the mayors. Do you know how many pawns you have to buy in Andalusia and Extremadura to qualify for this subsidy? About 2 million newspapers. Do you know how many newspapers do not declare because entrepreneurs have the power not to declare them? About three million newspapers. Do you know how many losses there are in Social Security? Around 50 million euros are not included in Social Security. The alternative that we are putting forward today - the one who is talking knows what he is talking about because I am a newspaperman, I am still a newspaperman, paid my agrarian card even if I am here in the Congress of Deputies, I have been mayor for ten years and I know the reality of the rural environment - would mean untying the newspapermen from the dependence of the businessman and the mayors because some take advantage to buy the votes of the people, and the entrepreneurs to not pay the collective agreement. At the same time, with this measure, we would increase social security funds. Why? Because they don't declare a lot of newspapers. Don't they say the huts are getting empty? Well, let's put some money in it. That is what we are proposing with this initiative. On this occasion don't look at the one who raises the finger in the front row, because the day that the finger is missing I don't know what we're going to vote for. We must try by all means to have our own opinion on this. Andalusia and Extremadura need dignity. And I tell you one thing, why are there agricultural subsidies and PER in Andalusia and Extremadura? Because there has been no agrarian reform, because there is no processing industry. Do you know that we have 90% of all cotton and we don't have a textile company? Do you know that we have 40 000 hectares of orange and we have no factories that turn them into juices? You know we have pipes and no toasters? That we have tomatoes and we don't have an industry? Politicians have not done their homework well, so we are in this situation. And, of course, we have to claim with dignity what we are proposing. I'm going to the PP banks. Teófila Martínez, mayor of Cadiz, was supporting us in a lockup we did in Cadiz to get the pawnshops removed. The Mayor of Borno, Fernando, who was also a senator of the People's Party, was in the march of the newspapermen asking that this requirement be eliminated. In the banks of the PSOE is Antonio Pradas, who has been mayor of El Rubio, of 4000 inhabitants, near Marinaleda. I remember when Juan Sevillano, Mayor of Bornos, came to support us to remove the peonadas, or even Juan Cornejo, who today is the second on board Susana Díaz, also did. I mean, why don't we limit a perverse requirement that makes people humiliate themselves at night by knocking on the doors of businessmen and mayors for something that belongs to them by right because there has been a savage conversion? [[Applauds]] That's what needs to be done. The proposal we are making is very simple: a system that unifies agricultural income and agricultural insurance. And in addition, that for each section of ten newspapers that are worked in the field is covered a little more, 1.5% more of the minimum wage, with which we are forcing all pedestrians to declare themselves. You know that in the field it is not the same as in the general regime; the employer has the benefit of declaring the newspapers from 1 to 6 of the following month since hiring. You can hire day 1 but do not declare newspapers until 1 or 6 of the following month. What's going on? That the businessman decides how many pawns he points. We are putting forward a fair system for the peonadas to declare themselves, for there to be more money in Social Security, to dignify the lives of the laborers, and I hope that here today, in Congress, where it is the first time a laborer speaks, do not look at the finger; forget a little of the finger and vote in conscience because it is necessary to dignify the lives of the laborers and the laborers. Because the hands of a newspaperman or a newspaperman would not have to be used to ask for alms, but to create wealth and work. That's what we ask, dignity and justice. The hands of the laborers and the small peasants are the ones that enable everyone who is here to eat three times a day in our homes. Therefore, let us dignify the lives of the people, let us dignify the lives of the laborers. That is why I say to you that we vote in conscience for the peonadas and this system to be unified and to dignify the lives of the journalists of Extremadura and Andalusia. Thank you very much. [[A bunch of asparagus is deposited at the Presidency table.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States We can-In Comú Ponde-In Marea, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u66	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Garaulet Rodríguez is speaking on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u67	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the position and position of Citizens has been and will always be in favour of empowering, developing and giving better quality of life to the rural world, but betting on economic policies that create jobs; employment that eliminates temporality, that eliminates precariousness in all economic sectors and, above all, that improves the quality of life of all the inhabitants of the country and, of course, in them I include the 600,000 Andalusian and extremist workers. Because to maintain the current policy that the Socialist Party and the People's Party have been exercising for forty years is to maintain the use of inadequate instruments, with the corresponding loss of resources and, above all, perpetuating the problem. Mr Cañamero, I am with you that we must make reforms in the aid that people receive in connection with agricultural income and the agricultural subsidy. And because we are concerned about your current situation, as you have said, we must restore their dignity, we must give them adequate working conditions and that there is not so much temporaryity, so much precariousness. The conditions in which fellow workers are working, as you say, are very harsh and sometimes even unworthy. But, Mr. Cañamero, you know that the proposal you are offering us is not the right one; you make a whirlwind that is nothing but a patch, a bandage that does not heal the wound. It is true that the PER has been an instrument that has set the population in rural areas, that has offered assistance to people living in precarious situations and that has improved the infrastructure of the villages, but has not improved the employment system, has not improved it, Mr Cañamero. Agricultural unemployment is a very serious problem. Agrarian unemployment, as you have indicated, in both Andalusia and Extremadura is very serious and in forty years this situation has not improved; it is more, even I believe that it has become worse and worse. If we add to this the fraud that, as you have said, exists, with the two million peonadas on the part of the workers and the three million peonadas in black, you will understand the meaning of my amendment. Firstly, we want the whole range of existing aid, both contributory and non-contributory, to be studied and reviewed with a view to promoting and activating employment, including those provided by the Autonomous Communities, Mr Cañamero, with the aim of preventing possible fraud arising from the efficiency of their design. Secondly, there is a need to reform public employment services to ensure active employment policies that guarantee equal access to the services provided throughout the State. In both cases, account must be taken of the specific characteristics of the rural world, as well as those of agricultural workers. From Citizens we believe in the development potential of rural territory, Mr Cañamero, in all its fields, both agriculture and forestry, tourism, gastronomy and the environment, which will create new opportunities for economic and personal development in our country. From Citizens we focus the solution to the existing problem from two points of view. First, by modernizing the agricultural policy of our country, which creates quality employment and improves the working conditions of agricultural workers through policies such as the improvement of the current Law on the Promotion of the Integration of Agricultural Cooperatives, as well as working, facilitating and promoting the internationalization of enterprises, encouraging the reinvestment of CAP funds in agricultural holdings, designing training for the rural environment capable of meeting the existing demand for improving the activity of the means of training, creating the agency for the promotion of the agri-food sector, implementing specific development plans for the implementation of women and young people in economic activities within the rural world and establishing fiscal incentives aimed at favouring enterprises located in rural municipalities. In short, use instruments aimed at reducing poverty and precariousness, such as the wage supplement advocated by Citizens, which this year has managed to provide 500 million euros for young people under thirty years of age; a clear measure that, in addition to offering assistance to those who need it most, does not discourage employment as is the case with the system of agricultural income. Mr Cañamero, as I have said before, you will find in us support and joint work in measures that mean progress and progress, but the rural world must be seen and treated as the same so that we can combat its precariousness and meet its needs. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u68	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Serrano Jiménez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u69	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I want my first words to be to greet the workers who accompany us in the forums of the Congress of Deputies and also those who are at the door of Congress. Welcome to the headquarters of popular sovereignty. I hope we are up to it so that we can solve the problems that bring you here today. Mr Cañamero, we have already had the opportunity to discuss a similar initiative in the Committee on Employment and today they are bringing it back to plenary making the same mistake. They do not dialogue, they do not agree, they do not speak with the rest of the political groups, not even with the social actors. If you want to solve the problem of the workers of the dialogue field, do not play with the illusions of the people, with the problem of the agricultural workers on behalf of others that is serious enough for us to address it from its root and not making grandiose, hollow or empty proposals of content, made more to grab press headlines than to solve the problems. Mr Cañamero, my group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, calls for dialogue; dialogue and consensus to support an initiative in which we are in agreement, although we do not share part of the form and part of the proposals that you bring here today. Proposals that the unions do not support either, that they may not know this because they have not even tried to tell them that they were going to bring this initiative today. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, if you had spoken to the trade unions and the social partners to try to make this initiative a truly useful tool, you would have told them that the goal cannot be to create a welfare system and not a contributory one. They would have told him that the goal must be full integration and equality in the general social security system. Issues that we also share from the Socialist Party. Why? Because we want agricultural workers earning their lives with dignity, with rights We do not want to generalize subsidies, which is what you want with this initiative. [[Applauds]] We want to see decent work, quality and as stable as possible. Among other things, an in-depth analysis should be made of the different realities that Andalusia and Extremadura currently have in the crops of drought and irrigation. I give you an example, and I ask you: Is it the same for a water worker, who works practically all year round, as for a dry worker? A water worker wants more protection, not subsidies. In the Socialist Group's view, labour inspection measures should be increased, and there should be no fraud in recruitment. There is an urgent need to amend the Royal Decree on Highs and Lows in the Treasury of Social Security in order to eradicate fraud. And if you know fraud, report it! Don't shut up, report it. And measures should also be put in place to implement surveillance in the ratio of kilos of agricultural product collected with declared days, traceability of products, listing of companies and demanding compliance with collective agreements. In addition, it is necessary to require the Government of Spain to implement industrialization and employment plans. We must therefore adopt measures to generate employment in the field. We cannot condemn the people of the countryside to the lifetime allowance. The newspapermen, Mr. Cañamero, don't want to ask for alms. But the newspapermen, Mr. Cañamero, don't want misery either. The laborers want protection. There was already a lot of misery in our land and therefore PSOE governments adopted regulations that allowed, as you well know, great achievements for the rights of the workers. Of course you will be able to improve those regulations, of course you will, but not in the way you propose. What you are proposing, Mr Cañamero, is such that it is necessary to agree on it within the framework of the Toledo Pact, as happened with the integration of the special agricultural regime into the social security system which is now under way and is being dealt with. Do you, Mr Cañamero, intend to address questions of social security, contributions and therefore pensions, apart from the consensus of the Toledo Pact? So much to criticize the People's Party and pretend to act like them, from their backs to society? Your Honor, I too am a Cordoba woman and a journalist's daughter. I know very well the reality of the field and the reality of the problems of the field workers. [[Applauds]] For all the workers the situation is unjustly complicated and, if it were little, the stigma, always, on the Plan for the promotion of agricultural employment, of the PER, of the PFEA. Andalucians and extremists know very well what these plans have meant for our territories, how they have set the population and how they have made it possible to rehabilitate buildings, streets and infrastructure arrangements so that our peoples are worthy. The criticism on the part of those who do not know this reality is very easy but it is time to put an end to that indifference, let us improve the rights of the workers in the countryside, counting on the opinion of all, counting on social dialogue and within the Toledo Pact. Mr. Cañamero, my group is reaching out to you to work together for the dignity of the laborers. That is why we propose that you accept the amendment we have tabled to you. Moreover, with the first point we agree, we agree with you and your group that it is necessary to integrate income and agricultural subsidies into a single unemployment benefit for prospective agricultural workers living in Andalusia and Extremadura, but we propose that the legislative changes, plans and programmes to be implemented should be the result of an analysis, study and conclusions obtained by the Social Dialogue Bureau, without forgetting the problems of those over fifty-two years of age, who must be guaranteed their coverage until they are jubilated, nor of women potential agricultural workers, who must be made easier to integrate into employment. The problem of agricultural women, that of rural women, deserves a separate, thorough and rigorous study within the framework of a specific initiative such as that already presented by my group in this House.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u70	Mrs Serrano, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u71	Yes, President. I'll be right there. Thank you. Of course, when there are exceptional circumstances, of course we call for the elimination of pedestrians. Of course, when there is no harvest, when there is a catastrophe, when there are serious circumstances, we ask it and we will continue to ask it because the Socialist Parliamentary Group is sensitive. Mr. Cañamero, no problem can be solved only with photos and press headlines. People expect us to work rigorously, to present serious initiatives...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u72	Mrs. Serrano, I'm going to have to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u73	... to connect with the demands of trade unions and social partners. I invite you to it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u74	Mr Postius Terrado has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this initiative which is before us today and which, as has been said, has already been discussed in the Employment Committee a few months ago, our position as a Democratic Party will be exactly the same as we expressed at the time. We cannot support a non-legislative proposal like this, and we cannot do so because, despite sharing the objective of taking measures to address and resolve the situation of workers in the Andalusian and Extreme countryside who are unemployed and without alternatives, we do not participate in the way it is proposed to do so. As stated in the same explanatory statement of this initiative, what is intended is to update and adapt the system to the reality of the workers in the Andalusian and Extreme countryside, when what should be done, in our view, is to try to change the reality in which they live, that is, not to put a patch and continue to drag the problem. The system of care for this group, which applies only to Andalusian or extremist field workers, has been operating since the 1970s with more or less correct in terms of access to protection, but in reality with few successes. The fact that we are debating this initiative today shows that things have not been done right. In a way, forty years later we have to deal with the same problem. Therefore, perhaps what should be done now is to rethink the system in depth, obviously without abandoning the people concerned but avoiding, in fact, being condemned to remain in this situation indefinitely and chronically. In this process, agreement with the social partners and the autonomous governments concerned is essential. Perpetuating a subsidy-based model does not help in any way to reverse the depression situation you describe in your proposal and, therefore, because we do not share the solution proposed, we cannot give them our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u77	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said before, not only in this legislature but also in the previous one, we in the Committee on Employment had the opportunity to hold the same debate on the same problem. It is a problem that is not new but chronic, a problem that is not due to the action of a government but to that of all governments, and it is a problem in respect of which no one, absolutely no one, has yet made any serious attempt to address it from its root but only from its consequences. The various regulations that have existed on the subject, both on agricultural income and on agricultural subsidies, have sought to alleviate a certain situation to which many of the workers, a large part of the workers in the Andalucía and Extremadura fields, have been led, to the point that what has been intended is to minimize the effects or to minimize the requirement to obtain these benefits. From thirty-five newspapers, by a 2015 Law, it was passed to twenty newspapers or pawnshops necessary to obtain those benefits or subsidies. With this last measure it seemed that a minimum level of employment, contribution and activity had already been reached, from which it seemed unthinkable that no one could be excluded, or at least that no worker would be left outside the scope of any aid. However, Mr Cañamero has presented us today with a GNP in which reality is completely different, it is a much harsher situation in which there is a part that has seemed dogmatic to us and we believe it deserves a different assessment and legal scope. The question to be asked is that if we are looking at employment benefits that are linked to the existence at least of some work activity, does its existence as subsidies or agricultural income become felt when the premise is the absence of such activity? Does it make sense to treat a problem that is of economic structure as if it were an employment problem? If what we are talking about is such a social disaster, so that there is not even the possibility of getting enough work to meet those very minimum and basic requirements to make it a problem of employment, it is that we are cheating on the lonely. In this case, it is not a question of regulating - or deregulating - a benefit linked to employment, work, article 149.1.17(a) of the Constitution, but rather of the failure of policies in the field of agriculture or the environment referred to in 148.1.7(a) and 9(a) of the Constitution, or of the reorganisation of economic activity in 149.1.13(a), with a tragic consequence which is to dismiss workers in the field of social security in order to place them in the field of non-contributory benefits or, if necessary, even worse - of social assistance. That is the problem, because what the GNP does as such is to expel workers from the field of employment and send them back to the field of social assistance, that is the hardest confession that can exist from the failure of the rule of law. In those GNPs that we have seen in the Committee on Employment and in today's Committee, the question that arises in this debate is whether we are bringing something with this kind of short-term treatment or whether it would not be more appropriate to demand from everyone, starting with the Andalusian and extremist authorities, a proposal for solutions to deal with the problems at the root. Given the serious consequences, it would be impossible to deny support for measures that seek to alleviate the situation of absolute insecurity in which many of these workers live, and from no point of view could we deny that support, but does that make this proposal no law? Let us question it. In its day we said and today we want to insist that we believe that this problem should be addressed from a different perspective, not from the political confrontation, not from the perspective of the number of days of contribution, not from the unification of regimes - to which we would nevertheless agree - but from a much more worked-out, objective, serious and more informative view, especially economic ones. That is why we believe that it is necessary, first, to provide us with information and then agreements to try to solve this already endemic problem that carries behind a backpack of institutional normative inefficiency that has been failing for no less than forty years and that requires other solutions. Bring to this House initiatives that will inform and add up because in the meantime the one that you are presenting to us does not do so and that is why you will not have our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Republican Left Group will vote in favour of the initiative put forward by the Confederal Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The perception in the State as a whole of the subsidy and agrarian income systems subordinated to the peonada system is that of a perverse system which constitutes an aggravation with regard to collective agreements existing in other sectors and to the pension system approved in the State as a whole. Therefore there is really a peyorative view of what this current model of the peonadas and the entire system of subsidy and agrarian income is. A picture many times, yes, we recognize it, caricaturized and full of prejudices, but that hides a real problem of social justice and this is where the problem is. It's a social justice problem. The lack of agrarian reform in the communities of Andalusia and Extremadura has perpetuated a caciquil model where the pawn market, which we do not forget corresponds to a precarious model of employment, makes many of the laborers subject to the interests of big owners and companies. The most interesting thing about this proposal is the willingness to untying the perception of the special agricultural subsidy from the demand of the peonadas, which makes it possible to guarantee the subsidy for a much wider majority. In any case, the number of peonadas carried out in the previous year would make it possible to achieve 100% of the minimum professional wage, which would really encourage further work. The requirement would have been to have contributed to the special system of agricultural workers and not to the peonadas. It is therefore a turn, a change of priorities and criteria. It is a change that involves greater protection of the daily, but also a socially unjust change of model and that has failed as a model of development of the rural environment. Therefore, here is a change in a model that has not been working so far. But such a reform not only represents a fundamental change in the protection of the rights of the daily, but also comes fully into a debate of social justice such as that of social income. In fact, the answer has to be this: to understand the special agricultural subsidy as the minimum, not the maximum wage, as a social income directed at the sectors with greatest labour difficulties. Precisely last week the Government of the Generalitat signed an agreement with the ILP's promoters of guaranteed income to citizens, an income that will guarantee a dignified life for those families or people who are in poverty and who have the consensus of sixty-three entities, almost all trade unions and fifty-two municipalities, as well as political parties such as Esquerra, the PSC, the Cup and Coalition Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. This agreement will allow for the signature of the basis of the bill that will be admitted to vote in Parliament and is expected to apply this autumn to the most vulnerable sectors of the population. On the other hand, last week we were defending precisely in this same Chamber what would be the plan for the sustainable development of the rural environment as a mechanism of economic dynamism, social cohesion and territorial balance. However, as I mentioned at the time, during these years we have been witnessing a paradigm shift that has favoured the interests of large estates and corporations to the detriment of the model proposed in 2007 for sustainable development in rural areas. Therefore, the realities that had to go to what is rural development have not worked and are not yet priorities, as seen in this year's General State Budgets. That is why we are voting in favour of this initiative, and it is therefore a transformation of a perverse model in favour of social justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Calvente Gallego has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Your Honor. This I exhibit is the Spanish Constitution of 1978 and I do so to give an explanation of why the members of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea do not want it, do not respect it and do not abide by it. And you know the reason? Because they don't know her. And they do not know it because it is clearly deduced by drafting this non-law proposal which they have not read, not even Article 1, paragraph 1, of it, which states that Spain is constituted in a social and democratic state governed by law that promotes freedom, justice, equality and political pluralism as superior values of the legal system. The proponents still do not know that the law is respected in Spain and that all Spaniards are equal before it. Well, all the points of this bill not only clearly violate the General Law on Social Security, but also create inequality among agricultural workers, as they discriminate against all those who do not reside in Andalusia and Extremadura. Nor do they take into account the workers of the whole field of life in equalling their rights to those from whom, under the measures proposed by the Group of the United Podemos, they would be welcomed without being able to be possible agricultural workers in Andalusia and Extremadura. Ladies and gentlemen, this non-legislative proposal is a tale that has been going through different groups of the radical left of our country for almost fifty years. First, the Communist Party of Spain; then United Left... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u82	Quiet, please. Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u83	And now we can. It has been the myth, the flagship of the CUP and the Andalusian trade union of workers to justify their actions over time, that they do not refuse but are presumed to be: mobilizations, assemblies, enclosures, demonstrations, occupations of farms. However, they forget the convictions of the mayors of the left in Andalusia for frauding the social security system for signing allegedly false pawns, as well as threats to a pregnant worker for exercising her right to work on a strike day, as has been recalled this afternoon, assaults on supermarkets, convictions for assaulting a councillor, supporting terrorists or defending countries that do not respect freedom and human rights. [[Applauds]] With all this background, is anyone in Spain believed that the members of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United We can defend the workers of the Andalusian and Extremian countryside? Defending the workers is what the People's Party has done since the government of Mariano Rajoy. The People's Party is the party of the countryside, of the olive grove on my land and the defender to the extreme of all agricultural workers, with measures such as private storage, the reduction of modules in the IRPF to 0,09 % in a year of low production, the reduction of the peonadas from thirty-five to twenty and the increase to almost 4 % of the programme for the promotion of agricultural employment in Andalusia. We have increased the agricultural income of all Spanish farmers by 15% over the past year and, ladies and gentlemen, I will give you some data to reflect on. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u84	Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen. Take your seats.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u85	96% of the training funds for employment have not been implemented in Andalusia. This was denounced on 20 April by the government delegate in Andalusia, Antonio Sanz, who asked the socialist government to explain why it was not able to execute 96% of the funds that come to it to fight unemployment, which is of course considered to be extremely serious. Another fact that demonstrates Mariano Rajoy's government's commitment to Andalusia is that last year it allocated 147,712,958 euros to the community, an amount that this year amounts to 152.1 million in the 2017 accounts. In particular, my province, which I represent, Jaén, is allocated EUR 18.9 million, in which 282 actions were carried out as a result of last year's investment, with more than 255 000 newspapers and 18 766 contracts. We believe in this land and in the future of Andalusia and Extremadura. As for the reduction of the peonadas, the government of Mariano Rajoy did. I must remind you that there has never been a higher reduction than has been agreed twice by the Government of the People's Party, by the Government of Spain, and that there has never been a total elimination of the peonada, as you want, for access to agricultural subsidies. The measure of the reduction adopted by the Government of Mariano Rajoy and the minister present here, Fatima Báñez, the last measure she raised to the Council of Ministers, implied its approval and benefited two hundred thousand workers in the Andalusian and Extreme countryside. One very important thing is that 61% of these workers were eventual field workers, i.e. women. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the circumstances in which the groups appear, it is clear that they are contrary to what I have said, to what was determined in Royal Decree-Law 8/2015 of 30 October 2015 approving the consolidated text of the General Law on Social Security. They shall be entitled to the protection granted to any agricultural worker in the Spanish State and to unemployment benefit or to agricultural income. That is determined by law. And a specific protection system is established in the Andalusian and Far East countryside, which is the most favourable for these workers. The reduction in the minimum number of peonadas, as I mentioned earlier, has been approved by the Government on several occasions and by royal decrees-law, but is an extraordinary and urgent measure caused by weather circumstances or weather conditions or by the impact on the loss of working days due to drought or, as I have said, weather events. The limitation that you seek would make the raison d'être of converting these aids into social action and a type of social protection disappear and the modification of the conditions and access to discharge that you propose, which you intend to extend up to twenty-four months when it is only three hundred and sixty-five days, would be clearly illegal. In short...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u86	Your Honor, you have to finish now.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u87	I'm done, Madam President. The People's Parliamentary Group, to which I represent, cannot accept any of the proposals contained in this non-legislative proposal. Finally, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Spain, the Government of Mariano Rajoy, has shown serious, firm and rigorous sensitivity and commitment to the agricultural workers of Andalusia and Extremadura in particular and the rest of Spain. In short, stop demagogy and manipulation and get to work with us to further improve the lives of agricultural workers throughout Spain. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen; thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u88	I ask Mr Cañamero Valle whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u89	No, none.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u90	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u91	We then proceed to discuss the motions resulting from urgent appeals. First of all, it is appropriate to debate the motion for urgent questioning by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the political responsibilities which the Minister of Justice intends to assume as a result of the manoeuvres that have taken place within the Public Prosecutor's Office aimed at impeding certain judicial cases against corruption and of the Minister's own actions in relation to these cases. [[Rumors]] For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Rodríguez García has the floor. [[Rumors]] And before I give you the floor, I ask your ladies and gentlemen to remain silent and, if not, to withdraw from the Chamber. I'm not going to repeat it again this afternoon. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u92	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rajoy is not in the House right now, but, welcome, Minister, because I am convinced that he will listen carefully to what this House is going to say and, above all, what this House is going to vote on today. Mr Catalá, you have moved away from your responsibility as a minister and have focused on acting as an advocate for those investigated for corruption cases in your party. We have repeatedly denounced it. The cases of the now resigned President of Murcia and the former President of the Community of Madrid have cleared up all sorts of doubts and what were indications became incontestable facts and evidence. Look, it's not the first time a member of the government has sent loving messages to a suspected offender - Luis, be strong, hold on, remember?-, it's not the first time an accused for corruption is received in an office of the Ministry of the Interior - there was Mouse with Mr. Fernández Díaz -, but the novelty of what happened in these cases is that it is evident how the government has devised a perfect plan to protect its corrupt. [[Applauds]] Here lies the gravity of the facts we have known in the last two cases. That the PP and its leaders are immersed in cases of corruption is no longer new, that those who sit on the Council of Ministers, including the President of the Government, protect them and give them encouragement is not new; the novelty in these latter cases is that our country, the whole country, has witnessed, has been able to hear how these plans have been devised to protect their corrupt from the institution, from the Ministry of Justice and from the Attorney General's Office. And it is that it has put itself at the service of the People's Party, as an object of defense of the People's Party, to the prosecutor's office. The Minister of Justice whom we reproach today, Mr Catalá, has not just devoted himself to calling the corrupt. Remember that of Pedro Antonio Sánchez: Rafa - you are Rafa - was the hope to get out of Mr González's troubles and so we heard him share it with Zaplana. Twisting about investigations outside the Ministry of the Interior is not accidental, but is part of that plan. Only in this way, Minister, is the departure of Mrs Madrigal's Attorney General's Office and the appointment of Mr Maza. This is the only way to understand this proposal for the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office to fall on Mr. Moix. Mr. Moix was the favorite of the corrupt. He was also heard by the whole country, and he, to the favorite of the corrupt, knowing it by the State Attorney General as he knew days before his appointment, was appointed. Why, Minister? Because he was the favorite of the corrupt and he was part of that plan and trap that you had to protect the corrupt of your party. A whole week we've been asking him why and he hasn't answered. You have put the Ministry of Justice in the strategy of defending the corruption of your party and with this you are putting at risk the basic rules of the rule of law. [[Applauds]] I insist, ladies and gentlemen, that there is something more serious than the fact that you are being tainted by corruption and that from your ministry you are mastering prosecutors to prevent the corrupt of your party from being investigated. Mr. Catalá can't be in the blue bank for another minute. You have to be stopped by the President of the Government, as you have not had the decency to resign. It has to be stopped because those who every day work for justice in this country, thousands of judges and prosecutors who every day stand up to defend the rule of law in this country, do not feel represented or defended by you in the blue bank. That is why you have to resign, Minister. [[Applauds]] And to regain the credibility of the prosecutor's office, it is necessary that the government cease Mr. Maza. It has seriously and repeatedly failed to fulfil its functions, as stated in the Organic Statute of the Prosecutor's Office. It has been dedicated to hindering and interfering in the cases and work of prosecutors who were pursuing corruption in order to favour those investigated. Mr Moix must also be removed immediately after the known events and his action in the Lezo case. As I was telling you, last week you did not explain anything about what happened and no responsibility has been taken; on the contrary, you have insisted on supporting these actions. That is why this motion of reprobation is supported and supported by the rest of the House, as he heard from the spokesmen of all parliamentary groups. This is the first time that a minister has been reproached in full for his duties in our democracy by the majority of the plenary of this House. They should make you look at it. [[Applauds]] You must fulfil the mandate of the Congress of Deputies and the majority of parliamentary groups. The President of the Government after this term of office has no choice but to cease as Minister of Justice. I am grateful for the support of all the parliamentary groups and for the mandate of this House. I have heard and read these days that this reprobation has no legal value. I even listened attentively to Mr. Maza this morning when he despised us and despised the pronouncements of the Congress of Deputies. Some groups have spoken of merely symbolic action. It is true that this is not a binding rule, but it does not imply that it has no legal value. It has the very value of democracy, which is the value of this House. [[Applauds]] A democratic government must fulfil the mandate of the House, the Congress of Deputies. A government that believes in democracy must attend to the Chamber that gives it confidence. Therefore, Minister, the President of the Government has no choice but to cease. I don't know if the state prosecutor doesn't mind being reprimanded by the Congress of Deputies, as I said this morning, but you should be conditioned to be reprimanded by the Congress of Deputies and Mr Rajoy forces you to act by ceasing the Minister of Justice. Thank you very much and thank you to all the parliamentary groups. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u93	As no amendments were tabled, we moved on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u94	Ignacio González's conversation with Eduardo Zaplana, in which he talks about the chivataz of a magistrate friend, makes it clear that the government and that you yourself, Mr Catalá, have moles to alert the corrupt of your party, to warn them and to change quickly from burrow. Mr Catalá, you have been playing mouse and cat in the media and in Congress itself for months, but this time there is no prosecutor to serve as bait. You have appeared twice before the Committee on Justice without giving answers, twice in which all you have done has been to escape from a hole in a hole. Who are the moles of his ministry? Who are the prosecution's moles? Who's that judge friend? Why, Minister, have you not taken any steps to investigate the shuffles? He did not do so with former President of Murcia, Don Antonio Sánchez, nor has he now done so with the former President of the Madrid Community in the context of the Lezo case. Who was reporting to Ignacio González? The worst is not that you do not deliberately want to cut the plague, the worst is that you also feed it. Sometimes it feeds it with complicit silence and others with blatant protection until it turns the ministry that directs into a trap for those who pursue corruption until it makes this ministry a cheese that is full of holes, a cheese in which in each of those holes we find a mole or, better, a rat. Tell me how you can say that you can talk about judicial independence from the government after your SMS in support of the incarcerated, of the criticisms you have made to the actions of prosecutors who have soliviated up to the prosecutor's office, up to the prosecutor's council, of those leaks of the 'eye, care' that nobody then investigates, of the appointments that are held by criminals. Lately, the siege to which you are subjected is such that it has come to be shielded in the actions of the State Attorney General, but you may forget to recall that it is the Government that appoints you to your liking. Last week you refused to resign and said that you had the confidence of those who have to have it, referring to the President of the Government, but also you have forgotten that, beyond formalisms, those who have to give you the confidence are not Mariano Rajoy but his fellow citizens, who have already withdrawn it, even before this House checks it out. Mr Catalá, present your voluntary resignation, get off the wheel now that you are still in time instead of entering a flight forward that only leads you to the abyss. That's it.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u95	For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ciuro i Buldó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President. Since Catalonia, we have been warning of the politicization of justice, of the judicialization of democracy; we have long denounced judicial repression, political interference in the judiciary and the prosecution or leaks of summary secrets prior to arrests or police searches. Where were you then, Socialist Party gentlemen? What happens when it comes to Catalonia? Everything okay? Why did they vote in favour of a petition to bring our spokesman, today disqualified from advocating democracy, to a political trial? [[Applauds]] Today we will vote in favour of the reprobation of the Minister and of his finger appointments, because with this reprobation we say to the Minister and the Government that it is not well to give priority to the concept of loyalty over honesty in the appointments. We will vote in favour of the reprobation by those who were unable to vote on 9 November, by the members of the Bureau of Parliament who were prosecuted for allowing parliamentary debate, by the Constellera de Governació and the Director General, who were tried today for buying ballot boxes in democracy, for denouncing today that justice in Spain has not been blind for a long time. [[Applauds]] Also because we want to defend the honorability of judges, magistrates and prosecutors who are away from the government's carpet and who are the ones who day by day endure the lack of means that derives from the exasperating slowness of justice, and because we tell you that you can endorse all the complaints you want, that we will continue to be faithful with the democratic commitment to vote in referendum on the independence of Catalonia of this wretched state in democratic guarantees. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Last week, as a result of the knowledge we had of the telephone conversations intercepted judicially from the investigations of the Lezo case, a perfect storm broke out, as they gathered, as the spokesman of Judges for Democracy has emphasized, the perception of partiality of justice by political pressures with - and in a matter that is of particular concern to citizens - political corruption and fraud. And all this is manifested in a concentrated and amplified way in the Lezo case. The citizen's perception of the partiality of justice by pressure from the governments in charge and from economic groups is the main cause of his bad image, and this comes long in Spain. What the Lezo case has done is to highlight this citizen's perception of the lack of independence of justice by political pressure and to favor those investigated by political corruption and fraud. So last week it was almost a monographic theme in this Congress. At the appearance of the Minister of Justice in the relevant Commission I reminded him of his words: In politics what people believe is, is what it is. An expression that is quite close to one of the definitions of truth; that is, the degree of correspondence between facts and their perception of citizenship, facts that have been accumulating in a hasty, massive and concentrated way, as if of a flood were treated in a previously wet terrain and that results in a reinforced suspicion of partiality and manipulation. He reminded the Minister that many of his appearances in the social media are controversial because they cast doubt on the independence of justice and on the autonomy of the prosecutor's office, and thus cited, as a reminder, the case of the 9N non-recordatory consultation in Catalonia and the resignation of the prosecutor-general Torres-Dulce; what was called the president of Murcia's chivataz, his statements expressing his opinion and criticizing the professional performance of judges and prosecutors, which has sometimes generated pronouncements against those judicial professionals; the references made to the prosecutor's office by the prosecutor's office in talks with the investigators and which do not leave him in a good place; it seems that he would have been given advice for the investigation to be carried out by the judge and the prosecutor's office, in order to avoid excessively inquisitorial proceedings against the investigators; the messages that the minister addressed to Mr. Ignacio González in a sense which leads to suspicion of understanding of the investigatory and, for the sake of the prosecution, also to the prosecution, to be submitted to the prosecutor's office; the prosecutor's office's office, the non-authorization of the prosecutor's office, the office, the office, the office, the office of the office of the office of the office of attorney-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in- We have also heard from Mr Moix of his attempt not to renew the commission of services of one of the prosecutors in the case and of the withdrawal of the other prosecutor, a decision which Mr Moix had taken as we then knew against what he said earlier and which he did not carry out because of the failure of the collegiate bodies of the prosecutor's office and because of the coverage of Mr Maza, postponing the decision pending further information that has been requested from both Mr Moix and those concerned. All these facts - and I am finalizing -, along with the renewal of the prosecutor's office, uniquely of the National Court and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, carried out by the State Attorney General, Mr. Maza; Mr. Moix's action in the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office; the statements of the Minister and what we are aware of the investigations in the Lezo case, force decisions to regenerate citizen confidence, both in the independence of the justice system and when dealing with one of the issues of greatest concern to citizens, political corruption and fraud. And this goes from the vote in favour of our group to the motion that is now being debated. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u100	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, barely a week ago from Esquerra Republicana, we asked the state attorney general to resign... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u101	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u102	...and we asked you directly that if the Attorney General did not resign, the Government of Spain would cease him. And what has happened in this time? Nothing. Well, things have happened because in the courts things don't stop happening and the government remains unpunished and undecided about it: about the State Attorney General and about the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor. The Minister has had enough time to rectify and has not, has not rectified; and the evidence of a collusion and unity of action between the Government of the Kingdom of Spain and the prosecution is evident. And for a sample, just a button. A few weeks ago, at the press conference following the Council of Ministers, the government spokesman said: if the ballot boxes are bought in Catalonia, the state prosecutor will file the complaint. What happened today? It is known that the Governor's Counsellor, Mrs Meritxell Borràs, announces that the ballot boxes will be bought, and immediately the State Attorney General announces that this fact will be pursued. [[Applauds]] I insist, you continue, through the Attorney General of the State, pursuing intentions, pursuing thoughts, pursuing ideologies, and this happens in totalitarian regimes. You're doing very badly. What is happening these days in the Attorney General's Office, as much as the Minister of Justice tries to defend against wind and marries the actions and decisions of the State Attorney General, and as much as he has a long career path, which he has, is a real scandal. Minister, you have not given any true explanations of the true vavenes of the State Attorney General, nor have you taken the relevant measures, which is nothing other than to cease it because there is a cause for it. That is why we are debating this motion of reprobation today. What causes exist? Look, the changes in the head office of the prosecutions. We have now understood why you were involved, in this case the Attorney General of the State, in the existence of a particular prosecutor, Mr Moix. And what does it corroborate? Obviously, the leaks in telephone interventions, where certain prosecutors are being changed, are being appointed because it is most favourable to the cause of the persons investigated. And this is said by prominent members of the People's Party who have then been investigated and who, at the moment, are in prison or are being investigated, and who, ultimately, had important institutional positions. Well, far from explaining all this, what he has done is to value the actions of the State Attorney General and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor, telephone leaks, among other issues. You said it the other day, we should not pay attention to phone leaks. Well, white and bottled, they can deny it, but the existence of unity of action between the Attorney General's Office and the Government is evident. In the meantime, what are you doing, minister? Touch the lira and repeat a mantra, which is nothing but repeat that in Spain there is the separation of powers. The answer is very simple: in Spain the separation of powers does not exist, and, if not, prove it: cease the Attorney General of the State, condemn the continued interference of the judiciary in the work of prosecutors who act diligently every day in the courts and courts of the Spanish State and, moreover, condemn the interference that occurs in the criminal proceedings opened for corruption, all too often against leaders of the People's Party. From the day when he was appointed the Attorney General of the State - and not six months ago - until today we go from fear to fear. A bad candidate was chosen, not because he does not have a good curriculum, but because he is not the right one. In any case, he is not a good prosecutor, because he has proved to be in the interests of the Government of the Kingdom of Spain, rather, of the People's Party, which is the party that supports the Government. In short, they have broken the trust of the citizenry because what awaits the citizenry of the prosecution is nothing else that defends the general interest, complies with and enforces the law, pursues the crime and those who commit it. This trust that should be held in the prosecutor's office and in its functions breaks with the news that is published daily in the media, which question the autonomy and impartiality of the prosecutor's office. It is useless, as I said, to kill the messenger, to question the veracity of the leaked conversations. The truth, the truth is that this is what is happening, this cannot continue and time has run out for them. For these reasons, as we have stated in the various appearances that the Minister has had in the Committee on Justice, we will vote in favour of his reprobation, the reprobation of the State Attorney General and the reprobation of the anti-corruption prosecutor. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u103	Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with an important issue at this time. It has been said here that it does not have direct legal effectiveness, but it has undoubtedly political effectiveness. Proof of this is that in all our democratic history so far there have been only two cases of reprobation, that of a Socialist Development Minister and that of the former Interior Minister of the previous legislature. It is a matter of importance and the first thing I want to say, Minister, is that we are not talking about a matter of people or names here; we are talking about something else rather more important. We are talking about credit, credibility, citizens' trust in institutions. Last week, in the debate in the Commission, I was referring to this Eurobarometer, which we have just heard just a month ago, in which, in the comparative evaluation of European judicial systems, we were very poorly placed in the criterion of credibility, in the criterion of the perception of judicial independence by citizens. We are in line; of twenty-eight countries there are only two, Bulgaria and Slovenia, that surpass us. With respect to the others, we are the third country with the worst credibility ratio. We are talking, therefore, about something basic and essential that is to regain confidence, something that you also set as one of the essential objectives of the legislature. What has happened in recent months, what has happened with appointments to the prosecutor's office, is precisely why we have fallen for the precipice of the absolute loss of credibility in judicial independence and credibility in the institutions. We have to cut that loss of credibility, we can't keep going down the slope. I was reviewing the debate that took place here in this House in 2007 when the last major reform of the Organic Statute of the Prosecutor's Office was approved. In that great reform there were some words that should really be remembered now. The spokesman for the People's Party said: The project strengthens the political link of the prosecutor with the government that appoints him, strengthens the personalist structure of the prosecutor general, turning the principle of hierarchy into a genuine caudillaje. That was said by you in 2007, when it was the Socialist Party that proposed that statute. In fact, we have been attending this tennis party permanently and when it governs the Socialist Party you criticize the appointments in the prosecutor's office and when you govern the other way around. But what would you have said if at some other time it had been known that the appointment of the anti-corruption prosecutor was conditioned because it was the favorite of one of the main actors in an important corruption plot? What would they have said if they had known that the Minister of the Interior sent absolutely familiar and affectionate messages to the principal accused in this plot of corruption? What would they have said if they had known that this person maneuvered for that appointment at the institutional level, and in which he seems to have very important access, in the end he gets it? What would they have said if the prosecutors working on that instruction were put in trouble? What would have happened? That you would have said that this was inconceivable, that the corresponding political responsibilities should be demanded immediately and that that appointment should be brought to an end. [[Applauds]] Unbelievably, last week - and I say to you that it was very important for us to mark the times and we have given you the opportunity to rectify those decisions both to you and to the State Attorney General himself - we ask you to rectify in an appointment that has clearly generated, at least, a fire in a fundamental instrument to combat corruption, such as the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. You have not only not rectified, but, in an absolutely inexplicable or incredible way, both you and the President of the Government have devoted themselves to defending the appointment of that anti-corruption prosecutor. And I tell you one thing: I want a country and a prosecutor's office where the president of the government doesn't care who the anti-corruption prosecutor is, it's more, that he doesn't even know his name and that of course he doesn't defend it when he's absolutely questioned because that connection, that umbilical cord between the government and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office with all that background, as you will understand, the only thing he does is that citizens continue to think that there is no such judicial independence. [[Applauds]] For all those matters, for all that has been said here, for that loss to credit bubbles, for that real blow to the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, for what we have known on the day of giving as it is that change of view in a case before the Constitutional Court, as it is the amparo to those eight assailants of the Parliament of Catalonia, where the principle of hierarchy that is imposed on blood and fire in the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, and radically changes before the Constitutional Court, I do not know whether there will be any hidden pact or of course a lack of legitimacy to maintain the same decision in that principle of hierarchy that has kept the Prosecutor's Office in a matter of such importance. In any case, this highlights the lack of credibility of the State Attorney General. But we're not going to stay there, I'm telling you, we're not going to stay there because for us institutions are not a tennis game.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u105	Mr. Prendes, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u106	I'm finishing up. Therefore, what we will do will be to present the reform that our judiciary needs, the reform that our prosecution needs to break that umbilical cord and gain that credibility that you are of course mistreating and the credibility that you have already lost in these few months of government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u107	Thank you very much. Mrs Elizo Serrano has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, Members of Parliament. Again, the Socialist Party comes to the rostrum of this Chamber to tear its garments for one more, if not the last, of the trophies of the People's Party. Once again the Socialist Party and Citizens exhaust the request for political responsibilities with a request for appearance of reprobation or of interpellation which is a toast to the sun. However, because of its symbolic value, we will vote that yes, not like you, Members of the Socialist Party and Members of the Citizens' Party, to whom when parliamentary law offers you a forceful reprobation tool against a government such as that of the People's Party, you are not even able to sit on a negotiating table. [[Applauds]] We learned last week - and in a letter from the Office of the Public Prosecutor of the National Court - that the Secretary of State for the Interior had leaked to Ignacio González relevant information from Operation Lezo's summary. These leaks have clearly hampered the investigation of Ignacio González and the rest of the accused in that operation and yet we do nothing; a planned operation that would affect not only the State Attorney General's Office itself and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office but also some member of the judiciary in this country. And if that were not enough, it is clearly pointed out in this plot of corruption and power, of indignity and impunity to some means of communication. Lords of the Socialist Party and Citizens, I am not afraid of the evil of the bad, I am terrified of your indifference, because it is not only your responsibility to govern the PP, but also your fault for the impunity and parasiticization of the democratic institutions of this country. With their gaze and indifference they are leaving alone thousands of people struggling to maintain decency in this country. With their indifference, they are allowing basic institutions of the rule of law to be perverted. With their indifference, they beat this institution. Let me quote Zola: 'The most revolutionary and righteous act is to shout the truth'. You have your hands tied. They are unable to accept their obligation to remove the PP from the Government of this country. [[Several Members: you voted no!-Applause]] They could accept it, but they don't want to. They are unable to assume political responsibilities beyond a reprobation of a minister. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u109	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u110	A motion of censure is necessary in this country, say it Podemos or say it Agamenón's scumbag. [[Rumors]] The public information we have at the moment is as follows: Mr Ignacio González contacted members of the judiciary and the prosecutor's office to urge impunity for the responsibilities of some members of the People's Party; suspicions that they are public and that they concern prosecutors and judges in this country. In the same report, they point to the Secretary of State for Security as the protagonist of a chivataz to Mr González to give him information about the cause. In the summary itself there are statements by Mr Gonzalez in which he says: I have spoken to the Secretary of State and he tells me to walk with care. [[Rumors]] If this is true, there would be legal responsibilities. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u111	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u112	If that is true, there would be very serious legal responsibilities, but we are also talking about political responsibilities and I fear that not only the Secretary of State. In another conversation, Gonzalez and Zaplana talk about Mauricio Casals giving them the information that a magistrate friend has called to tell them that there are telephone interventions in the Ignacio Gonzalez environment. These same conversations, recorded during Operation Lezo's interventions, make clear the normalized and mediated intervention by the interests of the People's Party, the designations of members of the prosecutor's office - we cannot forget here the dismissal of the chief prosecutor of Murcia -, very criticized designations in the higher courts of justice of the autonomous communities, and, of course, the very designations of the State Attorney General and of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor, who already anticipated González months before the People's Party took over the leadership of this government. The Government appoints the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor, who three times filed complaints related to manoeuvres in the Isabel II Canal, which prevented the publication of Blesa's mails, which prevented the investigation of recordings in the 'gestapillo' in 2009 and which, in a terna of seven prosecutors, was the only one who did not have sufficient curriculum in anti-corruption matters. He tried to stop Ignacio González's record, and he wrote it down. Only the prosecutors of Operation Lezo, out of genuine professional courage, managed to rebel against this order. The same prosecutor who tried to stop the 3% prosecutors tried to charge the prosecutors of Operation Lezo, and all in writing. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, there are serious reasons to believe that structural corruption in this country is the barrier that keeps us trapped in inefficiency and pushes us to the destruction of public services and to the precariousness of the social and legal state. We can continue to talk about many things, but it is essential to exhaust the times of the PP in the government of this country and that is everyone's responsibility. As Martin Luther King said: 'I don't care so much about bad people but about the awful silence of honest people.' [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u113	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Rojas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President; with your coming. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal comes from those who call for independent justice but want a political motion to interfere in the functioning of justice. First great contradiction. Let me read you an appointment. It says: Reproving is an inane act, it's just a different political position, it's a non-regulatory figure and it's simply a discrepancy; pretending something else is an act of political cowardice. This was said four days ago by Socialist Member Torre Canto in the Parliament of Asturias, then Secretary General of Socialist Youth in Spain. [[Applauds]] You don't seem to be on the wave, Mrs. Rodriguez. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that if we go into the moral or ethical sphere of reprobation, if we go in there, the reprobates would have to be the authors of this initiative and not the Minister of Justice. [[Rumors]] You have made very serious claims here that we are not going to let you pass side by side. It is very serious that they come back with false accusations and also when the minister has already given explanations in this House last week, not once, but three, and has also given them by the State Attorney General. But, ladies and gentlemen, that matters little to you, because you seek to discredit the institutions. They accuse the minister in the action of the prosecution of interference and also in the action of justice, and that is false, ladies and gentlemen. You lie here, in parliamentary office. [[Rumors]] Do not hide in your parliamentary immunity to accuse and lie without evidence over and over again [[Applauds]] Nobody, ladies and gentlemen, nobody in the D.A. has said they should be used. No one! Prosecutors'associations and the Fiscal Council have on several occasions reiterated that they work with full autonomy; with professional differences but with full autonomy. This Government has never given orders or instructions of any kind or category to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Never! But the Socialist Party is striving to draw an unreal and permanent analysis of suspicion in the institutions. [[Rumors]] They are talking about manoeuvres to obstruct judicial proceedings and with this they are disrespecting, ladies and gentlemen, more than 2,500 prosecutors who are doing professional and proper work every day in our country to make the rule of law work; the same prosecutors who are surprised, like us, because they know and know, like all of Spain, that the only public prosecutor appointed illegally was appointed by a Socialist Party in government! [[applause.- Rumors and protests]] By the way, with the Supreme Court ruling march, because the truths for you have to have the Supreme Court ruling march; for others, press cuts or out-of-context conversations. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, believe me that we deeply regret that this strategy of harming the institutions comes from the Socialist Party. What has happened to that Socialist Party of the great agreements, the pact for freedoms, the positive policy? What's the problem? Is this about covering up the week of passion and primary school? [[Laughter]] Well, look, maybe what you have to do is reproach Susana Díaz on the 21st if you don't agree with what's going on in Andalusia; that, by the way, there are cases of corruption everywhere and nobody does anything from the government. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, neither the Minister of Justice nor the 137 Members of the People's Party have any fault for that. That's something you'll have to solve. We, with our flaws, remain the same, we do not live obsessed with turning the view back. If so, as Machado said, we know that we have to look back just to see the path we must not tread again. [[Rumors]] And that path is that of resentment, that path is that of radicalism that we do not want in the People's Party. I sincerely believe that most of the Spaniards are with us to approve positive things in this House, such as the State General Budgets, to continue to create thousands of jobs every month, feeling proud to be the country that creates the most jobs throughout the European Union, as proud to support the party and the minister that are doing the most in the fight against corruption, with a package of measures that has been the most powerful and most powerful in the European Union to fight corruption! [[Applauds]] That's right. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group - and this is relevant - that it was a government of the People's Party that denounced Operation Lezo to the prosecution Yes, yes, do not change. [[Rumors and Protests]] [[Applauds]] And I also remind you that the prosecution that you repudiate has been the one that has investigated, the one that has entered and searched more than sixty homes, the one that has sent the investigated persons to temporary detention. In the future, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, when you resubmit a proposal for reprobation, also present a letter of legitimacy to do so, present a letter of your own moral squandering. [[A Member of Parliament: No!- Rumors and protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u115	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u116	Because you now present us with this initiative that you registered last week, the same week that a Member of the Socialist Party in the Andalusian Parliament, Mr Carmelo Gómez, remains in his seat despite the fact that he is believed to have made false reports to Juan Lanzas, the ERE achiever, and you say that he has to remain in his seat because the crime has prescribed. [[Protests]] That is the political responsibility of the Socialist Party, with two presidents who are charged with corruption, two presidents charged with corruption! [[Applauds]] I'm done, Madam President. With all this you want to blame the Minister of Justice, who has increased the prosecutors for the fight against corruption by 40%, who puts more than 135 new places of prosecutors, who pushes the Office of Recovery and Asset Management to return what has been defrauded, not as you did in Andalusia, where not even 1% of the EUR 800 million stolen has been returned. [[A honourable Member: Of course she does!]] [[Mrs Álvarez Álvarez utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u117	Mr. Red, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u118	I'll be done immediately. It proposes this, ladies and gentlemen, the ERE party, in Invercaria, in Mercasevilla, of the training funds. What reproach should we make to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Actually, the ballot boxes already did. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the stand.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u119	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. I remind some of your ladies and gentlemen that although there are columns in the Chamber, there is visibility from this rostrum, and I will not name anyone, yes, Mrs Rodriguez? [[Rumors.-Mrs. Rodríguez García asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u120	President, I am asking for the floor under Rule 73.1 - the contradictory article - which states that in any debate any person who is contradicted in his or her arguments by one or other interveners shall have the right to reply or rectify for a single time and for a maximum of five minutes. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u121	Quiet. Your Honor, I am not going to give you the floor because I do not understand that you have to use that article at this time. I will not give you the floor and continue with the agenda. [[Protests.- Several Members say words that are not perceived]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is because the article referred to by Mrs Rodríguez is applicable when the debate is reopened by someone from the Government, which has not been done. [[Rumors.- Mrs Rodríguez García: In any debate]] No, Your Honor; when someone reopens the debate, not when there are interventions like yours and the rest. Otherwise, I would have to give the floor to all the groups that have spoken. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Rule 73 will always apply as long as I am in the presidency, Your Honor, and if not, you will remind me.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the agreement to proceed directly and in one reading with the proposed law on the amendment of Law 1/1996 of 10 January on Free Legal Assistance. This item will be put to the vote without any previous debate with the rest of the votes scheduled for today. Let's take a three-minute break until the votes begin. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u123	Let's start the voting. We vote, first, to take into consideration the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, amending the Organic Law 10/1995, of 23 November, of the Criminal Code. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 342 votes in favour, 175 votes in favour, 176 votes against, 134 abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u124	Consideration shall be given to the proposal for a law. [[Applauds]] - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, IMPROVING THE PENSION OF THE ORFANDAD OF THE CHILDS AND CHILDS OF VICTIMES OF GENERAL VIOLENCE. [[File number 122/000079]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u125	We turn to the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to improve the orphan's pension for the children of victims of gender-based violence. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 342 votes in favour, 341 votes in favour, 342 votes in favour, 341 votes in favour, 342 votes in favour, 342 votes in favour and 341 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u126	It shall be taken into consideration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u127	Let us now proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals as agreed in the course of the debate. First, the non-law proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning the rejection and condemnation of all kinds of violent acts. We are going to vote on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 258 abstentions, 82.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u128	It's approved. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United States of America may, in common, on the approval of the agricultural income and the agricultural subsidy in a special agricultural system, more agile, which eliminates discrimination and guarantees of the rights of workers in the rural environment. [[File number 162/000381]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u129	We now vote for the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the approval of the Agrarian Income and the Agrarian Subsidy in a special agile system that eliminates discrimination and guarantees the rights of workers in rural areas. We will vote on your terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 78 against, 172 abstentions, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u130	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u131	We shall continue with the votes on the motions following an inquiry. Motion for a resolution by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the political responsibilities which the Minister of Justice intends to assume as a result of the manoeuvres that have taken place within the Ministry of Public Prosecutions aimed at impeding certain judicial cases against corruption and the Minister's own actions in relation to these cases. It is voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 207 against, 134.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u132	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u133	We shall now put to the vote the agreement to direct and read out the proposal for a law amending Law 1/1996 of 10 January on free legal aid. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 342 votes in favour, 271 votes in favour, 272 votes against, 69 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-16-CD170516.u134	It was adopted. The meeting was suspended. It was seven and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon.
