ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions first of all to the President of the Government. Question by Mrs Margarita Robles Fernández, Member of the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, Spain has been living in Catalonia for the past forty years the worst crisis of dictatorship, forgiveness, democracy. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] What steps will your Government take to address precisely the political situation in Catalonia? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u3	Thank you very much. Quiet. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs. Robles. You know very well what has happened, I will not repeat it. The Government had launched article 155 of the Constitution, which it was also aware of. The aim was to restore legality, protect the economy of Catalonia and Spain and restore coexistence and normality. There are elections called for the next 21st of December, they were called on the same day that article 155 was launched and I hope that these elections will be the beginning of a new stage. There is also a Commission here which we will be launching soon, as you know, to assess the situation of the autonomous state. I hope that will also be useful for working and building in the future. And in parallel with this whole situation, we must not forget that the main objective of this legislature is economic growth and job creation. Things are going well in this area, but the events that have taken place in Catalonia can certainly affect. The fundamental objective, therefore, is that there should be normality from the elections and that things should return to their course. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs. Robles.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u6	Mr Rajoy, my group is deeply concerned about what is happening in Catalonia, not only my group, but it is the second concern of Spanish citizens. What is happening in Catalonia is being a pretext for his Government, to enter into a paralysis of action. But above all, we are extremely concerned about the social breakdown that is being experienced in Catalonia, the economic impoverishment that is being experienced and the tension situation in which Catalans live. Look, my group believes deeply in the constitutional values of freedom, political pluralism and democracy; and because we believe in those constitutional values we have always been against what happened in Catalonia since 6 and 7 September. We have been forceful in that condemnation of what happened in the Catalonian Parliament and other subsequent actions. It is precisely because we believe in constitutional values that we strongly support the holding of the elections on 21 December in a framework of legal certainty, as other previous elections have not been held. But, Mr Rajoy, we would all be fooled if we thought that the elections would solve the problems in Catalonia. We said it before; there is a huge crisis of coexistence, there is a social tear, there is an economic impoverishment that affects those who are experiencing it worse. That is why my group is firmly committed to dialogue, to rebuilding those values that made Catalonia an essential part of Spain's governance, the pact, coexistence and dialogue. We don't want confrontational policies, we don't want bloc policies. We ask you, Mr Rajoy, to do politics. It is the moment of politics, it is the time of dialogue, it is the time to build bridges and work for that Catalonia that we all want, integrated in Spain, and that is a model of democracy, pact and coexistence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u8	Thank you very much. I agree substantially with the diagnosis we have just heard and I am in favour of dialogue, as you know, always within the law. Now what it is about here is to deal with the future, and the future has to start with those elections of 21 December in which I hope there will be a massive participation so that people are aware - which is - of the importance of these elections. I hope that these elections will open up a new political stage that must necessarily be a stage of peace, normality, coexistence in which the rules of play are respected and a stage that will help the recovery of the Spanish economy continue. As I told you before, there are some troubling facts. The latest Social Security, job creation that we have seen a few hours ago, tell us that in Catalonia things are not going as we would all like them to be, and the same is true of tourism, the same is true of the real estate market, of growth. But I hope that from the beginning of next year things will be normalized by talking here, in Congress, and in Catalonia, that the rules of play will be respected and that people will comply with what our Constitution says and the rules of coexistence that we have given each other. You certainly have a very important role to play, and I am absolutely convinced that you will fulfil it. It is necessary to reach a stage of tranquillity, but always respecting what the current legislation says, because the fact of not respecting it is what gave rise to what we have lived in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u9	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO Parliamentary Group, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE POLITICAL CRISIS SUPPLY IN CATALUNE FOLLOWING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF ARTICLE 155 AS THE SERIOUS SITUATION GENERATED BY THE INJURY IN PRISON OF GOVERNMENT MEMBERS? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00427]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u10	He also asked the President of the Government of Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]] Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u11	Good morning. How do you intend to overcome the political crisis in Catalonia after 155, as well as the serious situation caused by the entry into prison of members of the Government?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. We, the Government and myself are the first to overcome the crisis in Catalonia. To this end, as you are well aware, we have launched Article 155 of the Constitution, to restore legality, to defend the rights and freedoms of the citizens of Catalonia and to protect institutions of self-government. I think that when it comes to making decisions, after putting it into effect, we have been cautious. Things are working out fine. The officials of the Generalitat de Catalunya are fulfilling their obligation, doing things right. We have also called an election for 21 December, and what I hope, as I said before, is that from these elections there will be a new scenario that generates tranquility, security and certainty in the citizens, which is exactly what they want. There is also a Commission, as I pointed out earlier in my reply to Mrs Robles, which I hope will serve so that we can all dialogue and find a reasonable solution there among the members of this House who, at last, represent national sovereignty. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Esteban, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u15	Mr President, we must now address this issue politically. It's been a long time since it had to be done. The climate is irresistible with the application of article 155, which is a disturbing precedent; with the action of the Attorney General, who according to the law has obvious links with the Government, requesting types such as rebellion and sedition, when there has been neither riot nor violence, they do not correspond to the facts; and with preventive detention measures, surprising in guaranteed systems such as the penal one, and the judge has assumed it. True, they say that justice must be blind, but certainly not so blind as not to be attentive to the context and essentially political content of the facts being judged. We have most of the members of a government in prison, something sincerely incomprehensible, and of course this does not help to overcome the existing climate. Beyond the elections to be held, Mr President, it is necessary to make policy, it is necessary to seek solutions and agreements, because the unrest with the Spanish Government is not going to disappear either. Political distension is absolutely necessary; political distension in the tone of the messages being sent; political distension by reducing that tension in judicial life; distension by taking action with regard to the security forces. You have mentioned the Commission for a possible constitutional reform, and we must also be able to choose the time at which this Commission, if any, should work, because of course if we put ourselves to work in it in the full Catalan electoral campaign, I think it is more doomed to failure than to success. Catalonia feels like a nation, as Euskadi feels, and that citizens decide their future is the best, whatever it is and whatever it is the will of citizens, the best for democracy and the best for understanding. Not only do those who tried to vote on 1 October believe this, but a very large majority of Catalans and, according to some polls, also a very despicable number of Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Esteban, it's okay what you say about political distension, but I think that, in addition to political distension, two things are very important. The first is that the rulers comply with the law. A ruler cannot say that the Constitution does not govern his territory. A ruler cannot invent parallel legality, which is what we have seen in recent times. A ruler cannot unilaterally declare the independence of a part of the national territory. That is therefore far more important than political distension. Secondly, dialogue is important, but dialogue is also supposed to involve the ability to give in because, if not, it is not dialogue, it is imposition. I have already said many times in this House that what was intended to be discussed was the terms of a referendum on independence which in any case would be done yes or yes, and we have heard that in this House too. So that's the most important thing. From there, no doubt I would like - I will work to make it so - that after the elections on 21 December a stage of political tranquillity, which is what all the citizens of Catalonia want. He's not staying for me. But I have to say with the same clarity that you cannot be a ruler or simply a citizen's representative in public institutions and say that the law does not affect you, because that is the liquidation of the most fundamental values that we have as a nation and that is the liquidation of the most fundamental values that the European Union has, which is... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEVELOPED MR MARIAN BEITIALARRANGOITIA LIZARRALDE, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: IS THE GOVERNMENT THINKING TO APPLY ARTICLE 155 IN ANY OTHER TERRITORY ALSO IN CATALUONE? [[File number 180/00415]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u19	He also asked the chairman of Mrs Marian Beitialarrangoitia Lizarralde of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u20	Mr Rajoy, is the Government considering applying Article 155 in any other territory besides Catalonia? [[Rumors.-Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u22	Thank you very much. We are not thinking of applying Article 155 at all. Article 155 is not an article that is applied capriciously or because it is thought of by the Government because it has nothing to do. Article 155 is there to defend the Constitution, the laws and the general interest of Spain when threatened or seriously assaulted. Therefore, only when this assumption is made can the Government make use of this mechanism, which is certainly exceptional, but not unprecedented, because it is the case that all the countries in our environment have it to ensure precisely that their Constitution, laws, rules of play and therefore the will of the majority are complied with. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u23	Mrs. Beitialarrangoidia.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u24	Mr Rajoy, you have two options: either you clarify it to those of your party who say the opposite or you have the courage to speak clearly and to tell the truth; to remember, for example, that you have been trying for forty years not to develop the State of self-government by blocking the pending transfers because you considered that the pact to pass the page of Francoism without breaking had made you go very far in the concessions made, or to say that in cases where you have been accepting new transfers because of your own needs, you have wanted to hinder the social and political progress that the autonomous institutions were adopting by systematically resorting to a Constitutional Court to the dictate of the interests of the central government of turn, or to recognize that the constitutional reform that you claim to be ready to open is nothing more than a new attempt to definitively close any loophole in the right to decide. Say that 155, which has meant burying the state of autonomy and which represents a turning point of historical dimensions, will be applied to any territory that tries to exceed the present limits, whatever the path chosen for it, because the main objective that you pursue - as you say members of your party - with the help of the PSOE and Citizens, is only the unity of Spain. Say that he is willing not only to imprison the Government, to prevent democratic referendums using force, but also to prevent the independenceists from getting the absolute majority back in the elections on 21 December, which I hope they will get. You've done it before at Euskal Herria. In the face of the increasingly visible loss of electoral support, they manipulated the board and, through illegalization, made Lehendakari the now deputy Patxi López, who would not have taken up that office otherwise; you imposed a government that did not have the support of the population. We've known them a long time. We know that you are able to continue to cut democratic freedoms in Catalonia and any other territory. We also know that there is no possibility of democratizing the State, which is increasingly the people in Catalonia and in Euskal Herria who are sure that we have no future, subjected to a State that wants us to be independent only in privacy. Even from Europe you are reminded this week that you are acting like an authoritarian franchisee. I will be honest, we only see the limit in what most people say. That is what makes our democratic and legitimate bet, counting on the strength of reason. Neither you nor the other, or in Catalonia or in Euskal Herria... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u25	Thank you very much. Go ahead, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u26	Your Honor, you have the perfect right to think as you see fit and proper, and you can be an independentist as anyone who wants to be, but the independenceists are no better off than the rest of the citizens; the independenceists also have to comply with the law, as we have to comply with those who are not. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, I cannot agree with anything you have said. Precisely this very Friday we just passed the Law of quota and the Law of concert, which shows that we comply with what the Constitution says and with the agreements that we have given among all Spaniards. We have been developing the state of autonomy for forty years. In case you did not know, forty years ago, when the development of the state of self-government began, the public spending made by the autonomous communities in Spain was zero. Today the government that I chair, if we remove the pension line, spends 20% of the total Spanish public expenditure, that is, you are living in the most politically and administratively decentralized state of public expenditure in the world. I'd be happy if you didn't forget. [[Applauds]] The Government of Spain does not say what the Constitutional Court has to do. In fact, as you know, I, on many occasions, when the Constitutional Court decides against laws that were passed by the Government, am the subject here of all sorts of reproaches. However, when it does not suit you or any of the other members in this House they say that the Constitutional Court is under the orders of the Government... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. His time was up, because the clock hadn't counted the 18th minute before. Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF Adriana LASTRA FERNANDEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: IS THE GOVERNMENT DESIGNED TO LOOK FOR THE AGREEMENT IN THIS CAMERA TO UPDATE THE CONSTITUTIONAL COUNTRY IN OUR COUNTRY STRENGTHENING THE TERRITORIAL COHESION? [[File number 180/00422]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u28	Questions now addressed to the Vice-President of the Government, Minister of the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations. Question by Adriana Lastra Fernández, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, the Constitution left the territorial model very open with a series of blank pages that have been written over the years, sometimes more accurately than others. The result is a model with shortcomings in funding, in the development of competences and also in the configuration of instruments of collaboration, of cooperation between administrations. That is why we understand that the time has come to order it, to analyse it, to change it, in order to remain a factor of social and territorial cohesion. In this context, is the Government prepared to seek agreement in this House to update the constitutional pact?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u30	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Lastra, if the agreement is always convenient in political life, in this matter you know that it is essential. And for us it is, and not only because of a constitutional requirement - which also, because huge agreements are required to reform the Constitution - but, fundamentally, because of political responsibility, because it is about strengthening the constitutional pact and not weakening it. Therefore, we will work from the government and from the party that supports it by that agreement from the highest political responsibility. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u32	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lastra, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u33	We all agree that constitutional reform cannot be a temporary remedy for resolving a specific situation such as the conflict in Catalonia. Socialists have long called for territorial reform towards a federal model - they know that this is our model - which we believe would have avoided precisely situations like the current one. But this is a proposal not only for Catalonia but for the whole country; a proposal that would strengthen self-government to also strengthen solidarity, equality and cohesion among all Spaniards, live where they live. Plurality and diversity must be compatible with economic and social equality; it must also be an opportunity to shield our welfare State, so that pensions, health care, social benefits or dependency are not at the dawn of the Government in office. A constitutional reform to improve the democratic quality of our institutions; to define the new relationship of citizenship with politics as well; to expand channels of participation, introducing a system of transparency, guarantees and accountability that expels corrupt people from public life. A Constitution of the majority also for minorities, which takes into account the rights gained by many of these groups and protects them; that is precisely what the Constitution does, to protect these minorities as well. A reform that reaffirms our commitment to Europe and also to end that history that the constitutions in Spain are not reformed, but are repealed. There will be blockades, we will need above all generosity, we will need short-term strategies, we will have to have a long look, we will need partyism and we will need a vision of the state. We need a new consensus, and that is what we call all the groups in this House. We have the hand of all groups to work together for once in a new Constitution, a new agreement for a new country, which is what the Spaniards deserve. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u34	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Lastra, our Constitution has always been an expression of maximum consensus and we will only be right if we get it to continue. Perhaps we will have to put ourselves in the head of the parents of the Constitution and do what they did then, which was basically three things. First, to park their differences because it is the only way to break down the agreements. Secondly, although they came from very different ideologies, they all believed in Spain and I think that is an essential element. Although they were from very different parties, they developed the best way to do politics, which is to think of the Spaniards. We will be right if we think of 47 million Spaniards, as I said last week, and not 17 territories; we will be right if we work for the whole of the Spaniards and not for those who do rupturist projects outside the law and who are not going to be convinced by much that we change the law. It is therefore clear that territorial cohesion must be strengthened, that social cohesion must be strengthened and that cooperation between administrations and loyalty between institutions must be strengthened. I also remind you that not all of these issues need to be agreed within a constitutional framework, that the reform of the Constitution can be a part, but if we want to agree on the issues I have commented on, we can talk about autonomous financing, we can talk about the pension pact, we can strengthen our country's social cohesion with the reform of the Constitution and, as we do and reach that consensus, without it. Therefore, Your Honor, I would not close the agreement to many other issues because not everything is resolved within the Constitution. In conclusion, I would like to point out two points. The sign of the times is that of integration and the more integrated our country is, the more modern and advanced Spain we all want and the more we will help to build the European constitution, because that is what constitutional reforms are about. If I may, to put it plainly, the reform of the Constitution and the advancement of the times go much more than Juncker. I think that's... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u36	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF FRANCESC XAVIER DOMENECH SAMPER, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: WILL THE GOVERNMENT TAKE INTO ACCOUNT THAT, FOLLOWING THE LAST PUBLIC RESEARCH, THE MAJORITY OF SPAIN SHALL BE PARTICULAR OF THE CELEBRATION OF A REFERENDUM ON CATALUNE? [[File number 180/00416]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u37	She also asked the Vice-President of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Francesc Xavier Domènech Sampere, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u38	Thank you, Madam President. I ask the Vice-President of the Government and current Governor General of Catalonia and Count-Duke de Olivares of the 21st century. [[Applauds]] Despite all that power that you now accumulate in relation to Catalonia, you will be able to try to win but you will never convince, and someone who does not convince because he has no project does not win at the end either. You have taken your strategy of coercion and repression to the limit in the absence of a political proposal on your part. They suspended the self-government of Catalonia, their attorney general - reprobated in this House -, their attorney general imprisoned, took to prison a part of the elected offices and, moreover, now threaten - Mr Hernando yesterday - to suspend again, applying 155, the electoral results that can come out of December 21. You therefore call an election to suspend your outcome. In that regard, you seem to be following the maxim that the Government loses confidence in the people and, if the people returns, see if a new one is formed. But that new town isn't going to be your people, that's for sure. In fact, as all this happens we see in the survey published by El Mundo how for the first time most Spanish citizens are in favour of a referendum agreed. There's no deafer than the one who doesn't want to hear. Despite all this, I ask you: will the Government take into account that, according to the latest published surveys, most Spaniards are in favour of holding a referendum on Catalonia? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u39	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Domènech, don't mention previous points. I am in this Congress of Deputies as a deputy and representative of the whole of Spain as you, who sometimes forgets - many - in this House that you are representative of the whole of the Spanish people and not exclusively of their own interests. Secondly, you believe that by expressing ourselves as a deputy before the judiciary we all respect the separation of powers as little as you do; for I will tell you that this Government respects the separation of powers and judicial independence. [[Rumors]] Turning to the question, Mr Domènech, the problem of doing politics with surveys is that when you register the question you have read one and when you do another one has been published, and the last survey is that of the CIS. What does the CIS survey say? That two out of three Spaniards are defenders of the autonomous state that exists today and only 10% of independence; if I hurry, there are more supporters of the autonomous state among the voters of Podemos than on the average, where their parliamentary group, justified on the average, 63%. Therefore, Mr Domènech, you can raise questions in your own name and in the name of your group, but I would be much more prudent to speak on behalf of all the Catalans and all the Spanish, because from so much of defending the independenceists you are taking your vice in this House: speaking on behalf of the people. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u41	Mr. Domènech, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u42	I have no doubt about the need for the separation of powers, nor do I have any doubt that you have systematically violated it during the years of government. [[Applauds]] Nor do I have any doubt that this House represents the majority of the citizenship of the State, of Spain, as I also have the joy of knowing that you do not represent the majority of that citizenship, absolutely no doubt. [[Applauds]] What is here is that at the moment almost 60% of the citizens of the state think that there has to be a referendum, that this has nothing to do with the preference in the answer to the question. That is, the solution actually goes through a referendum, and that is independent of whether some opt for an autonomous state, others for a confederal or federal. These are clearly different debates. You guys are built and you've always been built with the idea... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u43	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u44	Mr Domènech, I remind you that this parliamentary group represents at least many more Spaniards than you, and after the last elections even more, because we were voted much more. [[Applauds]] Mr Domènech, I have discussed many times with you, and although I try to hide that you are defending independence, you come to this House systematically to defend the independenceists. I don't know if he does it out of convenience or conviction, but there is one thing that is very clear: it would help everyone to have a little coherence and to know what they defend in En Comú Pomero and Podemos, because it gives the feeling that we don't know where the confluences converge and what the common ones have in common; to those who defend the unity of Spain, if they say so, they separate them, and to those who defend independence, if they tell it openly, too. Therefore, Mr Domènech, before we entangle the others, it would be wise for you to say exactly where you are, because what you are defending is a referendum for independence, Mr Domènech. It is with this that they are represented in these elections, independence, the alibi of the independenceists. Therefore, Mr. Domènech, if you move so much between indefiniteness and self-determination you can pass the following: that you end between indifference and self-destruction of Podemos... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u45	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF BEAUTIFUL PEOPLE, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: WHY DOES THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC SERVICE INCLUDE THE 2015 AGREEMENT WITH THE DGT EXAMINATORS, GENERATING A PERJUICE TO THE OFFICERS, TO THE SELF-SCHOOLS AND TO MORE than 100,000 CITIZENS WHO CANNOT EXAMINE TO GET THE PERMISSION TO DRIVE? [[File number 180/00423]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u46	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Question by Mr Pablo Bellido Acevedo, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u47	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Zoido, we would have liked this question to be answered by Mr Montoro, but the Government has decided to answer you, which seems to be the minister who seems to be unable to solve the problem and not the one who does not seem to want to solve the problem. I'm asking you the question. Does the Government plan to fulfil the commitments of the agreement with the traffic examiners of the DGT, or does it intend to ruin all the self-schools in Spain? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u48	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u49	Thank you, President. Mr Bellido, it is true that there is a complex and complicated situation in relation to certain officials of the Directorate-General for Traffic, which is within my competence, and that is why I, and not the Minister of Finance, am responding. Ever since I got here, I've been dealing very directly with this issue. This same week you have been for two hours receiving all the explanations and all the documentation from the Director General himself of Traffic in a appearance you have had in this House. That is why I tell you that we have been working intensively since we arrived, as did the previous team that was in the ministry, since the agreement of 29 October 2015 was signed. I am in a position to tell you that this Government has practically complied with that agreement that was signed. That is why I urge you, this Government has neither paralyzed nor failed to comply with that agreement, but quite the contrary. It is possible that the entire content of the agreement has not been achieved, but it is true that the agreement for the most part is fulfilled. I must also say that we, without a doubt, respect the right to strike, but we are also committed to resolving the situation because this is what is needed not only by traffic workers, but also by self-schools and students. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Bellido, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u51	Minister, as you see it, the strike of the examiners is a whim. You are well aware of the agreement between DGT and the traffic examiners, and of the commitment to increase the specific complement. Minister, you know that the Director-General of Traffic, Mr Serrano, has repeatedly stated - last week, without going any further - that it seems to you that the demand of the examiners is fair, and that he has undertaken to transfer to the one who can solve the problem, that is to say to Mr Montoso, this demand that is just and for him also necessary to solve. Mr Montoro said yesterday in some media that he believed that officials should be better paid and better prepared. Well, they could start with the traffic examiners. You yourself said on 31 January this year that this problem would be resolved soon, and that you were also mediating to increase the specific complement. So this problem has a name and a name, and it is the Government of Spain that does not want to solve what is happening; that it is harming its officials - which the Minister of Finance says should be better paid and prepared - that it is ruining more than 9,000 self-schools - the vast majority of SMEs - and the 30,000 families living in our country from road training; that it is harassing more than 120,000 aspiring people to take out the driving licence, which they need, among other things, to work for, and that it is no longer entering the state much more money than it would cost us to solve this problem, because solving the problem costs more than EUR 2.6 million, but the state has stopped charging for this matter EUR 15.5 million. According to the self-schools, they have already lost more than 80 million euros. We're going to ask for compensation for them. Minister, by their management they are losing examiners, self-schools, card seekers and also the state. I do not know whether it is a problem of pride or a problem of incompetence, but they can or do not want to solve this problem that affects so many people in our country right now. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u52	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u53	Mr Bellido, it is you who have described the situation of the strike as trembling or whimsical; none of those expressions have come out of my mouth. You have described here an absolute situation of chaos. I can tell you that no theoretical examination has been suspended in Spain, none, and of the practical ones, more than three hundred thousand have been carried out throughout Spain. I can assure you that, of the measures that had been signed in that agreement, it has been achieved, first of all, that the examinations remain a public service - and so it is -; the new productivity instruction, with which the monthly productivity was increased from 35 to 40%; the communication of the result without the need to say'suitable' and 'unfit', and the instructions for this have already been given, and the burden of workers' examinations, which has doubtless also diminished in a very substantial way. In addition, five hundred positions have been convened, almost all of which are for internal promotion. What does this mean? That we will continue to work to solve this problem, and next Tuesday all parties are convened to try to resolve this situation once and for all. We've been working and we're still doing it because we believe... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u54	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL DONE IRENE MARÍA MONTERO GIL, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT ACTIONS ARE TO BE TAKEN BY THE VICE-President AND THE GOVERNMENT TO ENSURE THE COSTS OF SOCIAL REPAIRS FOR THE GÜRTEL CORRUPT TREATMENT, WHICH FOLLOWS THE FISCALIA CONCERNED AGAINST THE STATE OF LAW? [[File number 180/00417]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u55	Questions to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mrs Irene María Montero Gil, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u56	Thank you, President. What actions will the Government take to ensure the costly social reparation of the corrupt plot Gürtel? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u57	Thank you very much. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u58	Thank you, President. Your Honor, what the Government is going to do, as with any judicial matter, is to wait for it to end, for it to have a judgment, and then, in its case, to take the appropriate decisions. I think that many measures have already been taken in the fight against corruption, there are today many more normative instruments than there were 18 years ago - you are asking me about a matter that began 18 years ago, you see that you are more interested in the past than the future - and we are working to make better reforms, better laws and that this type of crime cannot therefore be committed in Spain. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs. Montero, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u60	Thank you, President. This question was for the Vice-President, who is just leaving; as corruption matters must bother her, it has happened to you that, altogether, you are already reprobated by this House for using the Ministry of Justice precisely to protect the corrupt of your party, so you have nothing to lose by answering this question. [[Applauds]] But, look, the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office has said very serious things about the Gürtel plot; it has said - I will quote literally - that this plot was rooted as an ordinary form of public procurement for a long period of time and in different administrations, governed not by anyone, but by you, by the People's Party. The prosecution has said that this criminal plot violates the rule of law and that it will have, as I said in the question, an expensive social reparation. You tell me you're going to wait and I'm going to give you some suggestions for social reparation. The first: ask forgiveness of the Spaniards, because your headquarters have paid for it with black money and, as the president said before, a ruler cannot decide that the law does not apply in Genoa - neither in any territory nor in Genoa - ; ask forgiveness also for having turned corruption into a form of government and for having paid for their election campaigns with black money. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] You are tired of telling the Spaniards that who makes the pay, but when it comes to the election campaigns of the People's Party you make them and it is Correa and the Mafia who pay them; Correa and the Mafia. [[Applauds]] The second thing you can do is clarify whether Mr M. Rajoy who appears in the papers of Bárcenas receiving bonuses of black money is the one who currently holds the Presidency of the Government or is another M. Rajoy campaigning in the People's Party and no one knows it, because yesterday the principal investigator of the Gürtel plot said here that it is indicatively the president of the government who received black money and outstanding in B. Thirdly, return to legality - I will not tire of repeating it - because with your corrupt plots you have been placed outside the law and, as you well say, a government that is outside the law has no democratic legitimacy. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Finally, Minister - this is the most important recommendation - they return to the last stolen euro; more than one billion calculates the justice that has been carried out by the corrupt plot Gürtel. If you love Spain as much as you say, the parliamentary majority that you have formed with the Socialist Party and Citizens to apply the 155 would have the same haste to make it return to the last euro stolen by corruption to the Spaniards and the Spanish, because, do you know what is called those who steal, even if they are wrapped in the flag of Spain? They're called thieves, Your Honor, thieves. [[- Cheers. - Rumours. - Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u61	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u62	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I think this is the 15th time that I have spoken here in these Chambers to discuss these matters. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u63	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u64	Therefore welcome to trust in the prosecution. It seems that the prosecution is interested in you when it acts in favor of your interests, but we are always, always. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Look, I don't value what the prosecution does, but I respect it, and unlike you, who wear the robe on - that's why we have to study, approve the opposition - we don't issue sentences. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] I see that you already know the sentence, the result, consider who has stolen, who is a thief; go for God, with the judgments that you do in advance. [[Rumors]] We believe in the presumption of innocence, Your Honor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u65	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u66	We believe in the rights of all Spaniards, and so let us wait for a judgment, let us wait for results. In the meantime, you have been forgotten some nuances: firstly, that in the statement he made yesterday that person said 'indicatively' and you will have to see what value that statement has, right? [[Several Members: Ah!-Protests.-Applause]] And you certainly know that being a profiteer means not knowing that a crime has been committed - that you have not said, you have forgotten to say - and that you have only civil and non-criminal responsibility. [[Mrs. Montero Gil: That does not exempt you from returning the stolen]] Therefore, Your Honor, measure the conclusions well; it is good to wait until there is a sentence before anticipating it, because no one should usurp the function that belongs only to the judges and the courts in Spain and not to the deputies. [[Rumors]] In any case, if you want us to work against corruption, it would be very good if we read the latest report from Transparency International, which says that the real risk of European democracies is the populisms, the radical populisms that are attacking democracies. [[Rumors]] That is the real risk of democracy, ladies and gentlemen. [[- Cheers. - Rumours. - Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u67	Silence, ladies and gentlemen; silence. - OF THE WOMEN BEING CAPELLA I FARRÉ, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE CONSIDER THAT THERE IS JUDICIAL INDEPENDENCE IN THE SPANISH STATE? [[File number 180/00413]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u68	Question by Mrs Ester Capella i Farré of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u69	The Penal Code requires that there be violence in the crimes of rebellion, but without having exercised any form of violence, part of the Government of Catalonia is in prison accused of this crime. Cuixart and Sànchez are in jail for peaceful rallies before the Conselleria d'Economia accused of wanting to prevent police action, despite the videos where the population is being asked to move away from the door of the Conselleria to allow the exit of the Civil Guard. The prosecution has consciously omitted this video and neither the Spanish Government nor the related media have been able to show it or defend the innocence of these people from the crimes they are accused of. Far from that you have created a state of mind to point out the independenceist political and social leaders as violent, and the reality is very different. Because you know that imprisoned people are not for their actions, but for their ideas and for what they defend, but you have forced the rule of law to legally retaliate. All this while denying and silencing violence at all unionist concentrations, while assaulting those who do not want to shout Viva Spain with impunity, while mistreating the Government of Catalonia when he is transferred to prison. Our prisoners, the prisoners and the prisoners, are political prisoners. Amnesty International and the Council of Europe define as political prisoners the prisoner whose cause contains a significant political element, whether the motivation of his acts, the acts themselves or the motivation of the authorities to arrest him, and in this case all the elements of this definition compete. Denying your status as political prisoners you intend to assert the justice of your rule of law and deny the democratic root of the conflict. The vast majority of Catalans and Catalans do not recognize a Constitution and a law that deny our right to decide, and after requesting more than fifteen times for all legal channels the possibility of exercising this right, we have decided to exercise it peacefully; this has been and is our crime. And the denial of our right and imprisonment is the concept that the Spanish State and you, PP and PSOE, have of democracy and justice. And now tell me, Minister, that justice in Spain is independent. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u70	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u71	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I do believe that justice in Spain is fully independent, and if you do not explain to the 5500 judges and 2400 prosecutors that you believe that the work you do every day - you, who are also a legal professional - do not exercise it independently. I am sure you know many judges who declare themselves not independent because of political pressure, perhaps in Catalonia, I do not think either; in any case in Spain I do not believe that in any case there are judges who are not independent. And it's not that I say it, it's said by international institutions, it's said by the associations of judges and prosecutors, it's said by many professors and many experts. Therefore, it seems to me that talking about political prisoners in Spain does a very weak favor for our democracy, because it is not true, it is a lie, there are no political prisoners in Spain. Nobody's in jail for their ideas. It is because it has been decided by a judge, an independent judge, in the face of the alleged commission of offences that are provided for in the Criminal Code, and provided for in the Criminal Code with very long sentences, that is why provisional measures are surely issued which, as you know, are absolutely exceptional. Every day in Spain there are many trials where citizens appear. Citizens do not go outside Spain to avoid the action of justice, they attend to their responsibilities, every day independent judges do their work with an autonomous prosecutor's office that serves the general interest, and that is the day-to-day justice, every day, and you know it. Do you know what's going on? That politicians are not untouchable, they are not on the sidelines of justice. What crimes can be committed without criminal responsibility? Are there crimes that yes, are there crimes that no? Tell us what crimes you think can be committed without anything happening to a politician. Are the politicians in Catalonia better not to have to answer to the law? Are they different? [[Rumors.-Several Members: Very well!]] [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you're on the road to delegitimizing the institutions, you're starting to look like the most radical. You are not concerned that the Parliament of Catalonia has annihilated the voice of the opposition, you are not concerned that the economy in Catalonia is getting worse and that unemployment is increasing, you are not concerned that the facades of citizens and commercial establishments are being painted, you are not concerned that there are people who are going to crush judges and prosecutors, you are not concerned that journalists or councillors are being threatened. [[Rumors]] They are concerned that justice works every day, but I am not concerned, Your Honor, because I believe that justice is the same for all and is independent in Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u72	Mrs. Capella and Farré.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u73	It is only to call and support the general vagueness that exists today in Catalonia. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u74	Minister? [[Denial]] Thank you very much. [[Rumors]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GARZON SPINOSA ALBERTO, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS, CAN WE COMMUNEM-EN-MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF ECONOMIC, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS: WHAT ARE THE GROUNDS FOR WHICH THE GOVERNMENT HAS ANNOUNCED FOR 2018 RESOURCES IN THE PROPOSAL OF ECONOMIC RESOURCES FOR HEALTH, EDUCATION AND SOCIAL PROTECTION ARE AFTER WHICH WE ARE ALREADY IN FULL ECONOMIC RECOVERY? [[File number 180/00414]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u75	Questions now addressed to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. First of all, a question from Mr Alberto Garzón Espinosa, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u76	Minister, why do they continue to cut in health, education and social benefits if they talk about economic recovery?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u77	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Garzón, four months ago you asked me the same thing and your perseverance is to give me the opportunity to explain the figures again. Not only are there no cuts, but there are climbs. Social expenditure in Spain, according to the forecasts that the Government has sent to the European Commission, will reach 314,650 million euros next year, 314,000 euros compared to 300 000 euros with which we closed last year. This means a 5% increase. Within this the forecast - because that will depend on the budgets of the autonomous communities - is that the expenditure on health rises next year regarding this 3300 million euros, that of education 2 billion euros, and that of social protection - including already all pensions - more than 9000. If it seems to you that these are cuts, Your Honor, go back to the faculty, namely to read the statistics, to know what the budget of the State and of our autonomous communities is. Anyway, of course, I invite you to explain it carefully to see if I am able to convince your group that long ago in Spain the cuts that have stopped practicing and now we are in increases, including increases in social spending. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Garzón.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u80	Minister, I don't know if you intend to fool someone, but of course not me, you won't get it. You have spoken in absolute terms and know perfectly well that I have asked you about economic growth and relative terms, that is, if there is economic growth and it turns out that a smaller proportion is given for investment in health, education and social benefits - as you have told Brussels - this translates into cuts and inequality. These are the data, the data that you have sent, not the data that we have deconstructed. Our country, after the crisis, is one of the countries where inequality has grown the most. The wages of the popular classes have fallen much more than the wages of the more wealthy classes. We are facing a truly terrible scenario in terms of poverty and social exclusion, and you talking about economic growth, instead of taking advantage of it to correct these deficits - which are certainly fundamental elements of a country's coexistence and which have to do with security in civil terms, do not attend to them. You know what, Mr. Montoro? I don't think you're really worried about this. He is concerned about other things, he is concerned that there are experiences like that of the Madrid City Council that show that things can be done differently and that money can be invested differently. You have left this country in pieces, you have left this perfectly destroyed, municipalities, autonomous communities. The cuts have occurred in all areas, they have ruined these entities when they have not looted them in the Gürtel style. And when a city such as Madrid comes to correct the debt by more than 40% in relation to its People's Party council, and when it has a surplus of EUR 1 billion that could be allocated to correct its cuts from the Spanish government, you decide to intervene. You have decided to intervene by looking elsewhere at the municipalities of the People's Party, which are doing exactly the same as you, that is, failing to meet the spending ceiling. Because you, Mr Montoro, also fail to meet the expenditure ceiling and your deficit targets; you are, by the way, a bad student of Mr Montoro, and no one is involved in you. You - who speak so much about the Constitution - are destroying the Constitution itself, not only because of the cuts, which attack the social element of the Constitution, but also because of the tax amnesty and tax reforms, which attack article 31. And you, with the actions you are carrying out in Catalonia and in the territorial administration, are carrying out Title VIII of the Constitution. You're the real anti-system. Let those of us who think of the popular classes work, not the rich. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u81	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u82	Thank you. The truth is, I've been very drawn to your end: you're the anti-systems. For I do not know what you are, because you bring a mess between anti-systems, anti-capitalists and others, which will be cleared up some day; but let's get to the point. He has just acknowledged that there is economic recovery in Spain, he has just acknowledged that this recovery will bring more than 600,000 jobs this year, because he is comparing in proportional terms the expenditure on the total growth of the economy. Do you want to ask how much you have contributed to Spain's economic recovery? Do you want to ask him sensibly and loyally? Do you want to ask what your parliamentary group has contributed? Public administrations have done so, and have done so in compliance with the Budget Stability Act, a law that limits the growth of spending. It doesn't reduce spending, it limits spending growth to... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u83	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF JON JAN CARLOS GIRAUTA VIDAL, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT BELIEVE THAT THE NEW COUPLE LAW GUARANTEES THE EQUALITY OF ALL SPAINERS? [[File number 180/00430]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u84	Question by Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u85	Thank you very much. Minister, the Basque Country has the second highest per capita income in Spain; it is clear that it benefits from the integrated market, which I very much welcome, because prosperity has to be celebrated. That is true, the person who benefits from it must participate in interterritorial solidarity and in the equality of all Spaniards. How does the Government believe that the new Basque Cup Law guarantees equality for all Spaniards?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u86	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u87	Thank you. Mr Girauta, as your lordship knows perfectly well, the state of autonomy of Spain is a state where different estates coexist, and one of the singularities of that state of autonomy - a singularity recognized by our Constitution - is precisely the existence of the outside estates, the outlaws. From there, in the Basque Autonomous Community there is this foral hacienda regime and special quota regime, different, unique in the world. That quota - which is the law we are doing now and which will soon reach the House - establishes the financing, from the outlaws of the Basque administration, of the competences that the State carries out in the autonomous community. That's the sense of the quota, not another. The purpose of the quota is to finance the powers provided by the State; that is the uniqueness of such outsourced finances. I insist that thanks to this singularity it is possible to live together and to recover economically, it is possible that the Basque Country is one of our engines of economic growth and job creation. Moreover, the Government's proposal in this quota law is $1.3 billion, completely in line with what has historically been the quota. Then we could say: to the cup what is of the cup, and to solidarity what are other mechanisms that we could gladly discuss. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Girauta.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u89	That is, you do not know how the quota law contributes to the equality of all Spaniards. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Is he in line with what's been done? Yes, and specifically you have set the base year quota for the five-year period at 13 billion, that is, put the result ahead and then plan to adjust the accounts to accommodate the 13 billion. With regard to the adjustment of VAT, you have decided to go to the Basque Country for more than EUR 1 billion for outlying farms, when the result should be favourable to the State Treasury. In addition, half of these more than EUR 1 billion are paid by the autonomous communities of the common system. We have been waiting for an autonomous financing system for three years; there is no way we can have it, as long as comparative aggravation is fed for certain and imaginary reasons but which are often the result of that lack of clarity in the common system. In the meantime, it is a tremendous and surprising ease for you to reach agreements in the dark and behind closed doors, which is exactly what has happened, which is why I am already advancing that we are going to vote against, but I suppose you already know that. I am more surprised that, having reached such favourable agreements with the Basque Country, here the representatives of those who have negotiated with you have communicated to the public that they do not support the General Budgets of the State that we so much need all the Spaniards, or are they going to approve them and we are facing a theatre? Because right now I don't know if you have an agreement, you don't have it or you have it, but you have to make it look like you don't have it. Look: transparency and solidarity, please, minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u90	Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u91	Thank you. Mr. Girauta, the lesson you have given from the quota is reviewable and I am pleased to offer you that we review it and talk about it because the truth is that you have not succeeded in anything about what the quota is, I tell you with all frankness and loyalty. The Economic Concert and the agreements date back to the 19th century. [[Laughter]] Yeah, yeah, and that's Spain. Are you against the Economic Concert? Are you against the Navarro agreement and in favour of the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands? That's good for you, that's right for you, and the other one isn't? We're happy to talk about the estates... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u92	Thank you very much, Minister. - BY ALBERT RIVERA DÍAZ, BY THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MRS. Vice-President, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT THINK IMPRESSED THAT PUBLIC ORGANIZATIONS PAYED BY ALL CITIZENS SHALL ACT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CATALUNE SECESSION? [[File number 180/00420]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u93	Question by Mr Albert Rivera Díaz, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u94	Thank you, President. My question was addressed to the Vice-President of the Government, but as they have changed and do not want to answer about Catalonia, I will do it to Mr Montoro because I have been asked about this. Mr Montoro, I will ask you about the state structures, about what you have been building in Catalonia for so many years with everyone's money. But let me tell you that these state structures today precisely show that in Catalonia the Government of Spain, which has intervened autonomy to enforce the law, is not doing its job. While we are in this House, millions of Catalans are blackmailed today with all the cut-off roads in the metropolitan area of Barcelona, the access to the Arán Valley and the AVE roads in Girona, and I ask you, Mr Montoro: if you have taken control of the Government of the Generalitat, if Mrs Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría says you are the President-in-Office of the Generalitat of Catalonia, what are you doing today so that Catalans can go to work, so that you can open many companies, so that Catalonia does not collapse? Mr Montoro, we support the application of 155 to guarantee the rights and freedoms of Catalans and today the majority of Catalans who do not support the political strike, the blackmail called by the ANC, we do not agree with what is happening, and I ask the Government of Spain to guarantee the rights and freedoms. Today, the Government - Mrs Sáenz de Santamaría and the President of the Government, who are not here - is not guaranteeing rights in Catalonia. Today, despite applying the 155, there are millions of Catalans tired of putting up with separatists, tired of putting up with blackmail, that they cut off the roads they use to go to work or to get ahead with their business. Therefore, I ask the government to act and say what it intends to do in the future, because today there is a stoppage, a political blackmail from the ANC, but on the 11th another is called. What do you intend to do, Mr Montoro, so that Catalonia is not a territory without law? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u95	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rivera, what we are doing - and we are doing it together, with your political group, with your cooperation, giving the most complete information about these actions, and we are also doing it with the Socialist Party - is, in short, returning the legality to Catalonia, making the Constitution rule in Catalonia and doing so in the regime of freedoms that all Spaniards have given us since the 1978 Constitution. That's the work we're doing. I would also like to say, in a very brief way, that the independenceists, that the Government of the Generalitat has deceived the Catalans, have deeply deceived them when it has told them that it already had a capacity to declare the Republic and make it operational, but that is a profound deception because they do not have the basic elements of the Public Finance and there cannot be a country without Public Finance. That is one of the elements of the profound deception of the independenceists in Catalonia and that is what we are denouncing, we are bringing it to the relevant bodies, to the Court of Auditors; we are acting to ensure that those responsible for that collective deception assume their responsibilities at all levels, as they are doing before the courts and as they will have to do also assuming accounting responsibility and its consequences for having used public resources for the sake of a purported independence that is not feasible by applying our Constitution. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Rivera, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u98	Mr Montoro, but we support you to implement 155 and to do something, not just to implement it. This is the road map right now in Catalonia the map of the metropolitan area of Barcelona: Cataluña blocked. [[shows it.]] Catalans don't deserve this, Mr. Montoro. You have intervened by the Government to ensure free elections but also to guarantee security and rights and freedoms. Today there are many entrepreneurs who cannot open their business, many workers who cannot go to work. We have enough to put up with the president on the run, we have enough to put up with nationalism for so many years, so that now that you govern for a while, until there are elections, you do not guarantee us the rights. I ask you, Mr Montoro, cooperation, which is what we are doing, but also commitment. Apply the law in Catalonia and guarantee the rights and freedoms of all Catalans, not just the separatists. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u99	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u100	Thank you, Madam President. That's exactly what we're doing, applying the law. Let us not confuse a problem of public order, whose security and correction must correspond to the forces of public order, with legal action, which is exactly what we are doing, and we are doing it together with the other large political groups in this House. Therefore, I understand the meaning of your question but I can only answer that we are already on it, that an autonomous elections are called for 21 December and that from that moment on we are convinced that legality will return fully to Catalonia... Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u101	Thank you very much. - OF JOSÉ JUAN DÍAZ TRILLO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: WHAT ACTIONS DO THE GOVERNMENT HAVE PROVIDED TO IMPLEMENT IN THE TRUE CULTURAL PROJECT OF THE SPAIN MARK? [[File number 180/00424]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u102	Questions now addressed to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. Question by José Juan Díaz Trillo, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u103	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the Socialists have a proven tradition of commitment to Spain. It is not in vain that we bear his name in our acronyms for three centuries in the history of our country. In this sense we also have a clear picture of what Spain means. From a diverse natural, historical and cultural heritage, I believe that of the most unique of the European environment, for us there is something fundamental and is that this landscape of Spain is an interior landscape, like the intrahistory of Unamuno; they are its peoples and its people, that is the best brand of Spain, as is its culture, its best expression. That is why we do not understand very well that, after five years of this project of State marks Spain, you, rather than promoting and incentivizing culture in the face also of our image abroad, have penalized it. And secondly, the greatest heritage, the creative, artistic and scientific talent of our young people, instead of exporting it, you have exiled it. Tell me something about it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u104	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Your Honor, I believe that one of the successes of the 2011 legislature was the creation of a Spanish brand and it is true that it was made with a vocation as a matter of state. At that time Spain was experiencing serious economic difficulties with the euro crisis and it is true that at that time the general orientation of the brand Spain was also economic, it was to seek out how we could find for those companies our work that was missing here. And I think the work was good. Marca España has contributed to increasing its value, as shown by all the studies done by the Royal Elcano Institute, and has also served us to improve the self-esteem of the Spaniards. After the crisis, I also believe that it is necessary to reorient Spain's brand and to do so towards something that constitutes the soul of a nation, which is culture. And that's what we're doing. On 9 March, the Commissioner, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, said publicly that we were thinking of reorienting Spain's brand also towards the diversity and richness of our heritage, of our culture. What are we doing? We are integrating cultural activities of the ACE or the Cervantes Institute into the brand of Spain. Yesterday - to give an example - the Carolina Foundation incorporated with brand Spain the commemorative events of the 8th Centenary of the University of Salamanca or those that soon refer to Elcano-Magallanes or those that refer to the Dubai exhibition. In that State policy mentioned above it is very important - within the concept that we have as a brand Spain that expresses the richness and diversity of Spain - to explain it outside and also to explain it to ourselves. Last week there was another fact that seemed important and positive to me, within the Unesco World Memory Record there are three new Spanish contributions: Codex Calixtino, the Archivo de Simancas and the Archivo Ramón y Cajal. That's what it's about, considering it. That it had to be economically oriented at a time determined by the circumstances? That's right. At the moment we are also considering that cultural wealth, that heritage that unites us all Spaniards, of which we are proud and on which we have to rely in order to project ourselves towards the future. Therefore, welcome are all contributions... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Díaz Trillo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u107	Thank you, Minister. I hope that the goodwill already expressed by the High Commissioner will become a reality and be a fact, that there will be decisive support for culture. It will not occur to us as last year with the centenary of Cervantes' death, which we remain regular. Cervantes himself could have said 'it was and there was nothing'. Shakespeare won us for a score, because you know well that from that country that centenary was understood as a project of state. Having said that, I care very much about those words that you said, the Commissioner also said that the cultural potential of Spain would become the great challenge of this brand Spain. Therefore, I wanted to mean to you the value of Cervantes institutes, of our languages, in plurality, and of one of them in particular, which is Spanish, Spanish, which speaks 500 million people and is our greatest social and cultural asset. He's gonna let me finish with a Cervantes Award, Antonio Gamoneda. I think I'll be there in time, but you don't interrupt me, please, President. [[Laughter]] It says thus: 'Spain is also a land, / but a land alone is not a country; / a country is the land and its men. / And a country alone is not a homeland; / a country is, friends, a country with justice.' That's what I want. [[Applause. - Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u108	Mr. Díaz Trillo, six seconds are worth it. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!]] - OF THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND DEPORT: WHAT BALANCE DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE 25 ANNIVERSARY OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM THEYSSEN-BORNEMISZA? [[File number 180/00429]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u109	Question by Mr Emilio del Río Sanz, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u110	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Gil de Biedma wrote: 'Now that of almost everything more than twenty years ago'. For this year not twenty, but twenty-five years are being fulfilled from the inauguration of the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum, surely one of the best things that has happened to us in the recent history of our country, of the young Spanish democracy, one of the cultural milestones of democracy in our country. In addition to what involves personal realization for those who visit it, in addition to being an element to form more religious citizens and therefore more free and more critical, in addition to what is - it was mentioned now - as a political project of the State, above the logics and the necessary partisan differences, is always a priority for the Spanish governments, and this is also a democratic value. It is also an element of top-level tourist attraction, by itself and because it involves completing the so-called Golden Mile along with the Prado Museum and the National Museum Reina Sofia Art Centre, and there are more than nineteen million visitors who have had the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum. That is why we in the People's Party believe that we must be grateful to those who made it possible and very proud to have this museum, which, by the way, has now incorporated into its denomination the national word, Thyssen-Bornemisza National Museum, so I congratulate you, Minister. In addition, it is a good example of something very repugnant by radical populists, public-private collaboration in general, and in a very particular way for culture. No doubt the best colophon for this 25th anniversary would be the renewal of the agreement with Baroness Thyssen. I do not know if you, Minister, can tell us anything about it, besides making - and this is the question - a review of the opinion of the Government of the 25th anniversary of the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u111	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. The balance sheet is very good and it is also a good expression of a state policy. We commemorate the 25th anniversary with an event in the museum itself. Don Javier Solana told us some anecdotes about the vicissitudes of the negotiation. The truth is that twenty-five years later we have to say that the Thyssen-Bornemisza National Museum, together with the Prado National Museum and the Reina Sofia National Art Centre, are three great institutions of which we are all proud and are also a good example of the Spanish brand. I therefore believe that we should thank, as we did the other day, those who had the idea at the time, who led the negotiation and took the initiative. We must commemorate it as it deserves and we have commemorated it by incorporating, as you have recalled, the national term in the museum, something that has been very well accepted also by the entire patronage. In addition, we have done so with a series of activities that are structured into six thematic blocks. We have scheduled eighteen major exhibitions. Right now there is that of two geniuses face to face, Picasso and Toulouse-Lautrec, whom I recommend you to see. In Barcelona, A Thyssen has never seen. And we contemplate six important exhibitions: Sorolla and fashion; Monet and Boudin; Vasarely and the birth of Pop Art; Max Beckmann or Irving Penn. We have also strengthened, as you have recalled, collaboration between institutions and private activities. It seems to me extremely important that we do that, as well as that we do pedagogy: we celebrate the 25th anniversary with nineteen diverse cultural activities that promote debate, reflection and the approach of citizens to the museum. You ask me about the negotiations with the private collection of Baroness Thyssen Bornemisza. They're making good progress. I think there is a willingness on both sides to renew that loan deposit that the Baroness made ten years ago. I think it would be positive, because the collection of the Baroness has big paintings. Right now it would be a gold brooch on that 25th anniversary if we could do it. We have to accommodate the needs of the museum at the will of this private person, but I think we are well on our way and I hope we can do so. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u113	Thank you very much. - OF THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE OECD PRESSURE RISK Alert FOR THE SPANISH JULIED FUTURE? [[File number 180/00425]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u114	Questions now to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. Question by Mr Miguel Ángel Heredia Díaz, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, how do you rate the OECD's poverty risk alert for future pensioners?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u116	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Commissioner, the OECD report for all countries is a useful report because it says a great truth that in net contributory systems the future pension is closely linked to the active working career and to that employment during working life. Therefore, the commitment of the Government, and I believe that of the whole Spanish society, is to continue with this job recovery in order to have long working careers and higher quality jobs. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Heredia, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u119	Our older ones live worse than they did six years ago, they have increased their VAT and IBI, 7% the bill of light and have to pay for their medicines. By the way, how many millions have the Government raised for drug co-payments from pensioners? Say it. In addition, it has removed more than four hundred medicines from the National Health System. Pensions lose purchasing power. The lowest rise one euro a month, a real misery. Antonio, a retired from Mollina, after forty-two years working in the countryside, has a pension of 600 euros. How can you live with 600 euros a month having to pay for electricity, water and telephone? [[Applauds]] I know now that the Socialists have frozen the pensions, but you and I know that's not true. [[Rumors]] We Socialists raise the lowest pensions every year, 7% annually, twenty-eight times as much as Rajoy does. The numbers don't lie, you do. Socialists want decent pensions for now and also for the future. The IMF has told you that those who retire will now lose 30 % of purchasing power over their benefit, and this is joined by the OECD report. How the OECD will have seen the future of pensions to say that inequalities between future pensioners will increase and that they will live much worse! Because of Rajoy, for two obvious issues: his labor reform and his pension reform. Half of the young people are unemployed and those who have jobs are precarious jobs with miserable wages, and they will live worse than their parents, says the OECD. Up by 0.25 % the pension when inflation rises much more is simply indecent. In this context, I would like to ask you, Minister, that the IMF recommends to the Toledo Pact that it take decisions as soon as possible and propose concrete actions because the future of pensions is at stake. But Mr Rajoy made it clear from the first day, he bet on privatization in education, health care and pensions, and they have already said what they are going to do next year: more cuts, more cuts in education, health care, social protection and also pensions. You will pass into history as Minister nini, neither good for young people nor good for our retirees. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u120	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u121	Thank you, President. You're going to go into history as the deputy who most repeats control session after control session. Let me tell you a great truth: in Spain the only government that froze pensions was a socialist government and since it ruled Mariano Rajoy they have raised pensions every year because our commitment is mainly to pensioners in Spain. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u122	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u123	So the great peace of mind of the Spanish pensioners is that he governs a government that trusts them and believes in them, as is the government of the People's Party. Mr. Heredia, it was a day for you to be proud of something that is also Spain's brand, which is our model of pensions. You know why? Because it is a public model, of distribution but very supportive. And you know what's good about it? I'll tell you. Before incomplete quotation races, a model of supplement to minimums that charge two and a half million people in Spain and that have only four countries of the European Union. It is the one who takes the most care of the level of income for those over eighty years of age. It has the second highest replacement rate in the OECD as a whole. It is also the one that takes care of and the one that improves below the average of the whole OECD the gap in pensions between men and women, and it has much to do with that the maternity supplement that this House approved since 2016 that they charge three hundred thousand women in Spain, up to 15% more pension, and that has reduced the gender gap in pensions 11 points in two years. In inequality I believe that the Socialist Party should not give lessons. In 2007, before the crisis, you ruled, the poverty rate among those over sixty-five was 23%. Today it's 11%. Something has changed in Spain with the government of Mariano Rajoy, with growth and with employment, Your Honor. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTONIO PRADAS TORRES, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHAT MEASURES DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO ADOPTE THE LOWER OF JOURNALS IN THE FIELD AS A CONSEQUENCE OF SEQUENCE? [[File number 180/00426]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u124	He now asks Mr Antonio Pradas Torres, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u125	Thank you, President. I don't think the pensioners believed it; I hope you'll have better luck with the workers. Minister, what measures does the Government intend to take in the face of the lack of newspapers in the Andalucía and Extremadura countryside as a result of the drought?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u126	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u127	Mr President, the commitment of this Government is clear to the workers in the countryside, it has always been so since the start of the legislature and no one is going to be left unprotected from the right to income or to agricultural subsidies if the circumstances of production are worse because there has been an adverse weather situation or a drought situation. We did it in 2013, we did it in 2015 and we will do it again, if necessary, when it is properly certified by the Ministry of Agriculture, which is the competent one, and when we gather the Bureau of Social Dialogue, the trade unions and the employers of the field of Extremadura and Andalusia. And if we have to go back down from thirty-five to twenty, as we have done before, we will, Your Honor, because the commitment of this government to the workers in the countryside is a firm commitment, a clear commitment and a commitment since the beginning of the legislature. Thank you very much, Mr. Pradas. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u128	Mr. Pradas, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u129	I am afraid that this is late and would be insufficient, because we have already had five consecutive years of drought, lack of precipitation and, indeed, as you yourself have said, since February 2015 you have not taken a single measure in favour of the workers. Whenever such a situation has occurred, Governments have acted in the same way: they have reduced or eliminated the number of peonadas and have put in place extraordinary employment programmes so that workers can compensate for this lack of peonadas in the countryside. That's what Philip did; Zapatero did; even Aznar, who wanted to end the subsidy, did that; all but you, Minister, who hasn't put in place a single extraordinary PER all this time. [[Applauds]] In addition, you have frozen the PER budget for five years, costing workers 50,000 newspapers. The Government - its Government - has acknowledged that 30 000 people in Andalusia and Extremadura have abandoned the agricultural subsidy since you became a minister, 57.3% of whom are women. You're showing absolute insensitivity to women. Every year you resort to the topic of production trades, as you have done today. The production by the Andalusian Junta has already come out, and it detects that 900 000 newspapers will be given less only in the olive sector this year. What are you waiting for now if you already know that reality, if you know the whole Andalusian countryside? More than a year ago, the Committee on Employment approved a GNP which called for the reduction or elimination of the number of peonadas while there was drought, the implementation of extraordinary programmes and the adoption of concrete measures for rural workers and workers, and you have done absolutely nothing. You who resort so much to popular will and law enforcement, the governments are also to fulfill what is agreed in this House because that gives you credibility. No more announcements; Mr Sanz announced it, Mr Moreno Bonilla announced it, even Mr Hernando announced it the other day and you announced it today. From the words to the facts and comply with the workers of the Andalusian countryside. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u130	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u131	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, Mr. Member, this Government complies with the law and, in order to comply with the law, it is necessary to analyse this situation year by year. And, excuse me, but you have to have an official certification that the Ministry of Agriculture makes in the current year. Secondly, we listen to the social partners in the field, as is our obligation and our desire; do not engage in this constructive dialogue with the social partners. We'll take whatever measures are necessary, you know why? Because no one is going to stay out of the agrarian income subsidy, because the royal decree is approved as always with sufficient space. I'm going to give you two data so you don't lie: this year the Profea Plan has risen by 3% in the 2017 budget. I will give you the second: the average number of beneficiaries of this subsidy and agricultural income in Andalusia and Extremadura is 600 000, and the number of women beneficiaries has risen by 30% since 2012. Therefore, Mr Pradas, I ask you to be a little serious. And you know, whether announced by the government delegate or announced by the ministry today in the House, that will take effect, but always complying with the law. We always comply with the law, not with the letter, as the Socialist MEP claims. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Sofia Fernández Castanón, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, we can in common form the Minister of Health, social services and equality: What does the Government plan to do to ensure that the half of the population does not live permanently exposed to sexual violence? [[File number 180/00418]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u132	Questions to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. Firstly, question by Mrs Sofía Fernández Castañón, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u133	Minister, what does the government intend to do to ensure that half of the population does not live permanently exposed to sexual violence?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u134	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u135	Thank you, President. The fight against sexual violence and all acts of violence against women is a priority for this Government. The definitive eradication of macho violence is the most essential defence of women's equality and constitutes the defence of a better society in which our daughters and children grow aware that respect for others is the value that must prevail in their lives. Violence is not a democracy, therefore, in the face of violence that is always zero tolerance. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u136	Thank you very much. Mrs. Fernández Castañón, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u137	Madam Minister, I think we agree. We ask him about sexual violence because we believe that the climate of violence against women in this country is intolerable. We want to know what measures - not just those ideas we can agree with - are being taken to address it in its complexity. When you are going to understand that sexist violence is not only that which occurs in the context of the partner or ex-partner, it is also violence, harassment, rape and trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation, sexual assault or intimidation, that is also part of the sexist violence. We were shocked by Hollywood actresses when they joined the 'Me Too' but we didn't say anything to Spanish actresses when they joined the 'Me too'. What's more, we're not saying anything to all those women who aren't actresses. What do they tell all women who have been sexually harassed and assaulted in their work - whatever - on the street or in their spaces of trust? What answer does he give us? What answer is given to yourself, Minister, because I remind you that the comrades of the European Parliament have also denounced the sexual harassment that exists in politics. Tell us, how do you comply with the Equality Act if journalists are invited on Spanish public television to say that harassment is subjective or that they take a law as important as 1/2004 as fascist? [[Applauds]] When we have journalists who despise women and the LGBTI collective and talk about sexually abusing girls, tell me how they are complying with the Equality Act. [[Applauds]] Tell me, Minister. How does your ministry prevent women from being exposed to sexual violence and becoming second-rate citizens? What are you offering to victims of sexual violence? Are psychologists and psychologists ready? What training do police and judicial operators have? What resources? Minister, you, in office, will respond to the fact that our citizenship, that of women, is being second, just as it will go to the government to give democratic response to all the women who are now exposed to sexual violence because of the mere fact of being women. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u138	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u139	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, there is no doubt that the violence we suffer by women goes far beyond that which occurs in the context of a couple's relationship. Trafficking in women and girls for the purpose of sexual exploitation, female genital mutilation or sexual assault, harassment and rape makes women from all corners of the world suffer terribly, but I will tell you one thing, and it is that this issue affects us all as a society, so we could move forward from unity; unity that you broke. This unity is represented in the best possible way in the pact of state in which we are working all the political forces and all the autonomous communities, the pact of state against gender violence, in which you are the only ones in this House who have abstained and who have not really voted in favour. [[Applauds]] You had the answer. You ask me where the answers are. They are in the state pact, to which you have said no, you have abstained. Therefore, do not come to lecture us in this struggle because we are working on it every day. A State pact in the area of sexual assault contains more than 20 important measures such as the establishment of protocols against sexual harassment in enterprises, the introduction of relevant legislative changes for the implementation of the Istanbul Convention and the promotion of comprehensive programmes to address sexual violence. I will tell you more; sexual assault, abuse and sexual harassment are already punished in our legal system with prison sentences that can reach the age of ten. In addition, the previous legislature continued to extend this protection, increasing the sexual consent of 13 to 16 years of age, prohibiting the employment with children of persons who have been convicted of crimes against sexual freedom and establishing that minors who are victims of sexual assault do not maintain any contact with their aggressor at the time of the declaration to prevent their victimization. Therefore, we are also making progress in prevention and education based on respect and building healthy emotional relationships. I hope and hope that they will join the State Pact because this is the answer and this is the instrument. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u140	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED MRS ISABEL CAPEZAS REGAÑO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: HOW FINALLY HAS THE GOVERNMENT PROMOTED THE MEDICALLY SUBSCRIbed AGREEMENT AND CLOSE THE LAST 24 OCTOBER IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE PROFESSIONAL FORUM? [[File number 180/00428]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u141	Question by Mrs Isabel Cabezas Regaño, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u142	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, our national health system, as we all know, at the beginning of the 10th Legislature was at risk of mismanagement, resulting in a debt of EUR 16 billion. There was a health card fraud that cost EUR 1 billion a year, universality was a utopia as it was left out of public health to a multitude of collectives and seventeen health systems that generated huge differences between Spanish people coexisted. Since governing the People's Party, the work of the ministry you lead has been aimed at maintaining the universal, public and free character of the health system, as well as maintaining its sustainability. The Autonomous Communities have been assisted through the Autonomous Liquidity Fund and the Providers Payment Fund to deal with overdue debts. Recently, thanks to his work at the head of the Ministry of Health, thanks to his leadership through the Professional Forum, he has managed to resolve a conflict between doctors and nurses that has been under investigation for eleven years; a conflict that began with the Drug Law, whose consolidated text, in its article 79, states that the Government will regulate the indication, use and authorization for the dispensation of medicines and health products by nursing professionals. To regulate this prescription, it was necessary to reach an agreement between doctors and nurses. Last 24 October, through the Professional Forum, a very important agreement was reached in this regard that modified the Royal Decree of indication, use and authorization for the dispensation of medicinal products and sanitary products for human use by the nursing profession. Spanish healthcare professionals are our main asset, they are the cornerstone of health and we must facilitate their task to continue in the vanguard of European health, thus occupying the position they deserve for preparation and development. Minister, as you have said, one of the values of the ministry you lead is dialogue and consensus, and with this agreement you have shown the citizens what their priority is. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u143	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u144	Thank you, President. Your Honor, as you have said, our healthcare professionals are the main asset of our National Health System. Their vocation and talent have made our health system one of the best in the world. Since the beginning of the legislature we have been very clear from the ministry that we should guarantee and work to achieve the maximum collaboration between the health professions, especially between doctors and nurses. We have achieved this through sincere and ongoing dialogue since the beginning of the ministry's legislature with the professional colleges, trade unions and autonomous communities that are part of the Professional Forum. Since the beginning of the legislature, we have put all our will and effort in order, together with the professions, to find a consensual solution and we have achieved it, after having held four professional forums, at the last professional forum on 24 October, where we have reached a historical agreement between these two professions and where we have clearly defined the competences of doctors and nurses in the prescription and indication of medicines. Nurses are allowed to indicate products in accordance with the protocols developed jointly by the professionals themselves and approved by the ministry, eliminating supplementary training for the indication of medicines, except for those of special complexity, as may be the case for innovators. I would also like to tell you that yesterday we started the public consultation procedure to amend Royal Decree 954/2015 in order to comply with the agreement signed by the professionals and to speed up the progress that their day-to-day consultations will make, especially in the quality of the assistance provided to all citizens and, therefore, to patients. With this agreement we achieve greater legal certainty and better collaborative work among professionals, which directly results in the quality of our health and the satisfaction of our patients. We have achieved this thanks to the will of everyone to dialogue, demonstrating once again that in this Government we have listened to and reached agreements for the benefit of all Spaniards, as we have done in the state register of health professionals, as we have done in the framework agreements with doctors, nurses and pharmacists, and, most importantly, as we have done in the public offer of employment between the Government and the unions. Ladies and gentlemen, this very afternoon I will inform the Autonomous Communities of this historic agreement at the second plenary session of the interterritorial council that we hold in this legislature. It will be a very good opportunity to value our healthcare professionals and the agreement we have... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u145	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u146	We shall now proceed to address the appeals addressed to the Government. First of all, urgent appeal from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea to the Minister of Employment and Social Security on measures of extraordinary support for the eventual workers of the Andalucía and Extremadura camp, and of the whole State, as a result of the effects of the drought. For your defense, Mr. Cañamero Valle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u147	President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Today I address the Minister of Employment, who is from my land, from a village near Huelva, San Juan del Puerto, about 13 kilometers from the city, which although it has not been a town of laborers is located in a region where about 50,000 people work: Palos, Moguer, Mazagon, Lucena del Puerto and Palos de la Frontera. There, to your people, many emigrants from the mountains of Cadiz, Córdoba and Seville go to work on what they call red gold: strawberry, raspberry, blueberries and blackberries. The situation of the workers is of historical suffering and you must really know this reality because in Andalusia there are more than five hundred thousand workers - in Spain almost one million - who with their hands and effort work in agriculture in many unfortunate conditions; I say regret because this sector has suffered the consequences of policies in Andalusia, Extremadura and the rest of Spain that do not favor their situation of integration into work, their economic situation and their well-being. In Andalusia, 2% of landowners have 50% of all land; in Extremadura - for giving figures from two autonomous communities - 3% of landowners own 44% of all land. If there was an agrarian policy, call it agrarian reform, call it whatever you want, that would favor the integration of the workers of Andalusia, the situation would be different, but those great landowners using them on whim and without any social commitment to the workers has really led us to this situation. For this reason, the workers of Andalusia and Extremadura, who are more than 50%, have recently been assigned the subject of agricultural subsidies and agricultural income due to this situation of economic penalties and because the landowners were also interested in having this labour available at certain times of important campaigns, whether fresh, greenhouse or collection of orange or olive, for a period of twenty or thirty days. Despite this situation in the Andalusian and Extreme countryside as well as elsewhere, the workers have always been very criticized that they do not want to work, that is an idle labour force, that they only want to receive the subsidy or the agrarian income... That has been said many times in many circles and in many places, but the reality is that this labor has been looking for a piece of bread anywhere, either in Castile-La Mancha, or going out to France or looking for work anywhere. There is much talk about this, but we have to understand that 38% of poverty in Andalusia and in Extremadura, minister, depends on agriculture. That is, at this point in time when the countryside has become a roofless factory, where all sectors work there and where temporary campaigns are being forced to mechanize, people do not get the newspapers. To this should be added that the large landowners who own these large 30 000, 40 000 or 50 000 hectares of land in Andalusia receive Community aid from the CAP - in Andalusia they are receiving €1400 million and in Spain, in direct aid, about €5 billion - but that money that comes is not used to create jobs or for the processing industry but simply as the current expenditure of the large owners. Do you know that 80% of the aid that comes to Andalusia receives it from 20% of the owners? Do you know that only twenty landowners in Andalusia receive 42 million euros for having land and that this means the PER of the rich, and the PER of the rich does not need peonadas to have those public revenues that they do not use for the development of Andalusia? Do you know that the EUR 40 million would relieve 17,000 workers; is this the money that receives 17,000 workers under the system of agricultural subsidies and the PER? I believe that this situation that is taking place in the countryside is wrong and no government has committed really serious policies with the workers of Andalusia, Extremadura and the rest of Spain. They have not been affected by any Government, any Government. To all this we have to add the drought situation, which although it is a natural phenomenon and we know that in the south little rain is spreading to the center and the north. This drought we have seen this year with quite virulence everywhere, in addition to the fires in Galicia and Asturias that have filled us with pain because when the mountain is burned many things are burned, the lives of birds, animals and even the economy of people deteriorates. Drought has a lot to do with climate change that many people do not want to recognize but that is there and that will have to be addressed by different governments. To this drought is being added the painful situation that we workers have been suffering, which is why clear and concrete measures are now needed for the workers; clear and concrete. Already in June there was a royal decree to help farmers, condoning Social Security to farmers. What we propose now is that in Andalusia and Extremadura the requirement of the peonadas is eliminated, all because you know that in the vine harvest both in Extremadura and Castile-La Mancha has been lost between 40 and 50% of the newspaper. Olives in Andalusia, which are 1 500 000 hectares, will represent a loss of more than 20%, and in the province of Jaén, where we have 550 000 hectares, 66 million olive trees, will represent 30% of newspaper losses. Do you know what that means for a province like Jaén, where 125,000 workers work in the olive campaign? By the way, the olive campaign is increasingly discriminating against women because the countryside is getting rough at work and employers do not want to hire female labour. This reality needs to be tackled in the orange campaign, in the olive grove campaign, in all the campaigns, because we estimate that it has fallen by 30%, which means that the workers will not reach enough newspapers to be entitled to income and agricultural subsidies. The statistics are not worth, minister, for a reason I will explain, because, in the field, the work is not distributed equally for all the workers. The entrepreneur takes a team to work and it's possible that that team works a hundred days a year but other workers have nothing. When a campaign like that of the olive grove begins, the next month comes the one of orange and the next month the strawberry, a same group of workers can be hired by the entrepreneur for all those jobs, but a significant part of the people can have zero newspapers; therefore we say zero peonadas for a year, because one has to take into account a year in character backward, since when you make the application to be entitled to the subsidy or the agrarian rent you have to have the peonadas in the last twelve months. Since we have a year of drought, although since 2014 the drought has been abounding with great strength, we propose that the peonadas be eliminated, not that they be reduced but, please, eliminated; as we are this year, that they be eliminated. The second issue is the issue of the social security quota. There are about one million registered labourers throughout the state and about 800,000 pay 94.94 euros of their money. Do you know that when workers retire, they have 40% less left than the rest of the workers, when they pay more than all sectors? Do you know that we pay 11.5 % of a contribution base? 11.5 %. Do you know how much we pay the deputies? 4.7. Do you know how much a construction or civil service worker pays? 4.7. All pay 4.7, less the self-employed and the labourers, than after paying for forty-five years Social Security we have 600 euros left. This discrimination also needs to be compensated and we really need to investigate in the Toledo Pact how we heal this historical situation of the workers who charge 600 euros after contributing for forty-five years to Social Security, paying 11.5 per cent. [[Applauds]] It is necessary to eliminate the peonadas, but it is also necessary to forgive the Social Security, which during this period of time we are forgiven - or as it is called - the payment of the 94 euros because farmers, with the drought, will be applied or will be applied to them, which will also apply to the laborers and the laborers. And thirdly, the increase in the funds of the Profea, because it is believed that the Profea or the PER only arrive in Andalusia or Extremadura; no, it also reaches six other communities such as the Canary Islands, Murcia, Castile-La Mancha, Castile and León, Valencia... It also reaches those places and it is necessary to increase the funds of what we call PER, not the PER of the rich but the PER of the poor. That's very important. I'm done. Madam Minister, you who are from Huelva, San Juan del Puerto, and there, in your region, the laborers work by taking the strawberry at night, with flashlights, as happens with the asparagus in Navarre - they are the mining laborers - I ask you not to discuss the proposals I make to you, but simply apply them, because the people expect them: increase of the funds of the PER, elimination for a year of all the pedestrians and forgiveness of the Social Security. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u148	On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Minister for Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u149	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Andalucian, like me, I thank you for your intervention and the tone of it, which of course is a constructive tone, and I would like to say that we share the commitment with the workers in the Andalusian countryside, their land and mine. That's what I've been trying to do since I got President Rajoy's confidence to be at the head of the Ministry of Employment and Social Security, but I'm going to start by giving a message of hope to field workers from all over Spain, because agriculture is becoming an important sector in recovery. In fact, we have recovered 110 000 of the jobs destroyed by the crisis and the level of job creation in the agricultural sector in our country exceeds the national average rate, growing at a rate of 4.5% in the last year, so there is also hope for better employment in the Spanish field. I also share with you the need for special protection for workers in the Andalusian and Extreme countryside, which became real and which was also constitutionally appropriate, and which ended with measures that were put in place there in 1989. That is the commitment of a Spanish society that is united and committed to all. The Constitutional Court recognized the non-discriminatory nature of the application of the subsidy in autonomous communities such as Andalusia and Extremadura in response to this higher level of agricultural unemployment. I want all of Spain to know that this has the constitutional support, from the solidarity and commitment of all Spanish society for decades with the workers of the countryside. You speak very well of the current situation of agriculture throughout Spain because of the weather, especially the drought, which is affecting with greater intensity all the autonomous communities, even some of the north that historically did not suffer. In this regard, with a focus on our Autonomous Community, Andalusia, I would like to point out that the follow-up report of the Ministry of Agriculture says that in this first hydrological year precipitation has decreased significantly. By geographical demarcations, the hydrographic demarcation of Guadalquivir is already in a state of alert and that of Guadiana in a situation of pre-alert. We can say that the progress of areas and crop productions of the General Secretariat of Statistics of the Ministry of Agriculture for the month of August has already certified that the production of cereals from autumn to winter for the marketing year 2017-2018 had a decrease of 40% compared to the previous year. Similarly, as you mentioned in your intervention, the harvest has not had a good year precisely because of frost and has experienced a decrease in production, especially winemaking grapes. As far as olive groves are concerned, to which you have also referred, the last year of production of the Junta de Andalucia anticipates an average reduction of between 15% and 20% throughout the autonomous community, and there are Andalusian provinces - you pointed out very well - like Jaén that have suffered a level of decline in higher production. The ministry responsible for taking initiatives to alleviate drought damage began work from the very beginning and I would like to thank the Minister of Agriculture for her commitment in this regard, because measures have been put in place for a long time to try to alleviate the damage caused by weather conditions. Firstly, measures were taken with the combined agricultural insurance plan, where all the adversities are collected, and budgetary appropriations and efforts were also increased to facilitate, through liquidity credits, agricultural entrepreneurs to cope with the campaign and the difficult situation in which they were in, and to provide the sector with financing aid totalling EUR 200 million. The Ministry of Agriculture also addressed the Ministry of Finance to propose a reduction of modules for fiscal year 2017 in order to take into account the damage caused by drought. This will allow nothing more and nothing less than a million declarants who tax under this special system of objective agrarian estimation to take into account the effects of drought on the economic performance of their farms. In addition to the work being done by this Government with its own budgets, the Ministry of Agriculture has requested the European Commission, within the framework of the EAGGF, to advance 70% of direct aid to the CAP and 85% of rural development aid, which has begun to reach from 16 October, so that last July the Commission's Committee on Direct Payments approved this advance and more than EUR 3280 million will come from direct aid at national level, of which EUR 960 million will come to Andalusia, to our land. The specific date of payment shall, in any case, be a decision of the Autonomous Community in its area of competence. And as you pointed out in your speech, on 9 June the Government adopted Royal Decree 10/2017, exempting from the payment of the water use fee and the regulatory fee those holders of agricultural holdings affected also by the hydrological drought. We have therefore been taking structural measures for a long time. I would also like to refer in this speech to the Ministry of Employment and Social Security's own measures. We take some action in the field of social security, because in article 13 of that Decree 10/2017, of June, it is expected that holders of agricultural holdings affected by drought, both hydrological and meteorological, throughout the country, will be able to request and obtain, without prior justification of the damage, a one-year moratorium without interest in the payment of social security contributions corresponding to the months from July 2017 to February 2018, both inclusive, to avoid further damage and to help farms throughout Spain. You also tell me in particular about that right which the eventuals of the Andalucía and Extremadura countryside have, which is the agricultural unemployment allowance and the agricultural income. He knows very well that there are two types of benefit at the level of care intended exclusively for these prospective workers throughout Spain. It is an exceptional protection system, as you know, which provides these field workers with an additional guarantee because they can obtain, on a regular basis, care protection from which the rest of the agricultural workers are lacking, accrediting at least thirty-five listed days, substantially less than that of the rest of the workers, who need at least ninety days to qualify for an ordinary unemployment benefit. And with regard to this issue, I would also like to point out - because sometimes there is bad public information - the data on the number of days spent in recent years. Since 2012, there has been a steady increase of the same, which has increased from 51,900 listed days in 2012 to 62,500 in 2015, according to the last closed data of the General Treasury of Social Security. There are therefore more beneficiaries and, in addition, women have benefited in a particular way, because they have increased this benefit by 30% since 2012. As far as total annual beneficiaries are concerned, they remain at around 200 000. It is therefore a protection system that has worked over time and has had the support of this Government since 2012. That said, if adverse weather conditions or drought require extraordinary measures, as the law allows us, we will do so as we have done in the past; the same as we did for the 2012 campaign and the 2014 campaign, with two royal decree-laws that were launched in 2013 and 2015. What do we do? We have an enabling budget to be approved by the Council of Ministers. It is also necessary to certify this situation of production drop, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and, of course, with the agreement of the Social Dialogue Bureau in the field, as has always been done and as this Ministry will continue to do. In both cases, what happened? They dropped from thirty-five to twenty peonadas so that no one would be left without the income protection or the agricultural subsidy in the Andalusian and Extreme countryside. We will therefore take exceptional measures in the face of exceptional situations. I do not know what the Member's claim is to ask me, I do not know whether nobody is left without protection - that this guarantees us the reduction of peonadas, because everyone who is entitled will receive it sooner or later - or, if we end up with peonadas, he intends to transform this income or agricultural subsidy into something else, into assistance. Then we would even be invading the competence of the Autonomous Communities of Andalusia and Extremadura, articles 61.1 and 9.27 of their autonomous statutes. I would therefore like to say, in the honourable Member's frank and honest debate with me, that these are not decisions that have no consequences. All these circumstances can be discussed in the Toledo Pact Commission. You also tell me about the Profea, the Agricultural Employment Promotion Plan, and I want you to know the whole House that this government has made a commitment to increase it as far as we have been able in recent times. For this year it has risen by 3%. It is a programme to promote agricultural employment in order to correct economic imbalances because the Andalusian agricultural economy is not the same on the coast as on the interior, and this has allowed for the implementation of Community employment programmes in rural areas in Andalusia, especially those in the interior, at times of particular difficulty, which have given many people employment opportunities. Let us therefore continue to work together, let us continue with this constructive and sincere dialogue, and let us consider the proposals that the great commitment of you, your parliamentary group and ours be that no one in the Andalusian countryside should be left unprotected by exceptional situations such as drought or the adverse weather situation we are suffering. Thank you very much, honourable Member. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Cañamero Valle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u151	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. We have to be very serious about the issue we're dealing with, serious and concise because if we don't turn this into talking for talking and this isn't the program of the Chain Being being broadcast at two o'clock in the morning, talking for talking. The situation of workers is serious, very serious, as is the situation of other sectors of workers, such as hotel workers and construction workers. It is true that the countryside has become the law of the jungle, where almost nothing is respected; that is true. In Andalusia and Extremadura, only 40% of all those registered in social security receive the agricultural subsidy. See if there are unprotected people in the Andalusian countryside and the extreme! We are talking about 40%, 200 000 people. When we talk about the issue of pedestrians, there is evidence that there were years in which they were all eliminated. I do not remember exactly the years, it could have been in 1993, 1994 or 1995, during a long period of drought in which all the peonadas were eliminated. It is not that I now make a totally different request from what has been done in other situations. We have to eliminate them all, because lowering them to 20 or 15 means that there will be people who will not be able to charge it. Therefore, it is necessary to eliminate them. There is absolutely nothing wrong, because we quote our own Social Security, there is no loss. And when we go to work in the countryside, obviously, as pedestrians are also taken into account in retirement, they are asked. They all declare, there is no loss. In the countryside there is no economic loss by removing the pedestrians. I also want to say, Minister, that the workers have been charging 426 euros since 2010, for eight years, paying 426 euros. It hasn't risen a cent because the Iprem isn't updated. The Iprem is 531.52 since 2010. We were formerly linked to the minimum wage, but as the minimum wage rises a little - very little - but rises, so that the unemployment of the poor - of the laborers - the Iprem, the public indicator of income with multiple effects, which is the minimum wage of the poor, was created. I would also like to say, Minister, that it is very important that not only 35 peonadas are asked for, but the young people are asked for 53. And as you will understand, in the countryside when a person is young and novice entrepreneurs don't want him to work because they want specialized people who know how to work, and young people and women are the most discriminated against. If you are asked for 53 pawns from young people, look at the situation. The young people are asked 53 peonadas and 35 to the rest. I also want to say that the last study is not necessary to calculate newspaper losses. We are seeing that in Castile-La Mancha and Extremadura almost 50% is lost in the vine, and in Andalusia the forum that analyzes the losses is already saying that it is about 20% in all Andalusia and 30% in Jaén. We have these data there. If it applies 30% to newspapers, there are 15 million newspapers that can give Jaén in olives and another 15 that give the vine, we see it drops to 50 and 30% and we can analyze the millions of newspapers that are lost. So, I think we don't have to bargain, we're not in the market. Minister, we're not in any market. The requirement for peonadas must be eliminated, especially this year because of the drought. There's absolutely nothing wrong because there's no loss, there's no picaresc. He had said the responsible in Andalusia that it was done so to avoid the picaresca. No, there's no pickle in the newspapermen. The only thing that exists in the workers is poverty, dignity, coherence and, above all, a historic struggle of the Andalusian people to have work, dignity and coherence. And the governments we have had in Andalusia and Spain have not had the political courage to face the challenge that the workers need, which is agrarian reform, which is land! [[Applauds]] A person who has 40,000 or 50,000 hectares of linde is an insult to the intelligence of human beings. Do you know how much the Duchess of Alba charges for having land? It collects 3 million euros. That's what you charge for having an aerial photo, for photographing the land. That PER of the rich is not criticized, when they do nothing either for industry, for work, or for the future of this land. However, for the 426 euros of the laborers some people take their hands to the head. Do not take your hands to your head because the laborers and the laborers have sown the olive trees, we have worked the land, our parents and our pregnant grandmothers have worked the fields, we have raised the fields, and we need to dignify them, minister! [[Applauds]] We have to dignify them for the good of all. I think you share my opinion, too. We have to dignify the lives of the laborers. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u152	To conclude the debate, the Minister for Employment and Social Security has the floor. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u153	Thank you very much, Madam President. Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I also ask for respect for the workers in the Andalusian countryside, Extremadura and all of Spain, and for all the farmers who give these people opportunities, who certainly deserve it. This economic recovery is inclusive and is bringing 3,000 jobs a day for many people in this country in all economic sectors, particularly in agriculture, as I said, across all age groups and across the national territory. I would therefore also like to send this morning a message of hope to those young people and older people in the countryside throughout Spain who are confident that the recovery will reach them, recovering all the jobs lost by the crisis in the agricultural sector, which is a large economic sector. I would say that the agri-food industry is also a great industry, which not only produces a reasonable distribution of wealth within, but is also giving us the ability to channel that Spanish brand into the world with a large number of exports - more and more - outside our borders. Evidently, as Andalusian, I have had this clear commitment for a long time to the field of Andalusia and Extremadura, because I believe that the eventual agrarians have a peculiar situation and need special protection. But also as deputies of the Spanish House we have to be rigorous with the law enforcement and wait for the level of drop in production to be formally certified, as set out in the rules; we have to listen to the Bureau of Social Dialogue in the field, which works responsibly, with commitment and honesty with the Government, with any government during successive legislatures, and the decisions to be made will be made. I have informed you that it was my turn to adopt in the years 2013 and 2015 on the previous campaigns, and we did so by lowering the number of pedestrians from 35 to 20, and no one, no rural worker who was entitled to the subsidy or agrarian income lost it in those campaigns. So we also trust the responsible work of the social partners. Finally, I would like to refer to pensions, because I did not reply in my first speech. We have - and I have said this during my speeches this morning in the House - a system of public pay-as-you-go pensions with a very important component of solidarity. The percentage paid by employees in the general system is 28.3% and the percentage paid by workers is 11% and yet they have identical benefits. You know why? Because we believe, as Spaniards, in solidarity, and that is not a merit of the Government, it is a merit of all parliamentary groups over decades in the Toledo Pact. For this reason, today the system has a deficit, because of the faster integration that was made of the agricultural regime in the system, and assumes it with that solidarity that characterizes Spanish society. I am with you that things can be improved in all areas, in the area of employment, in the quality of employment and also in the area of pensions. Furthermore, I am ready to listen as a Government to the proposals of all parliamentary groups in the Toledo Pact Commission. By the way, your colleagues, who are also doing a great job in this Commission, can bring the appropriate proposals, because we will study them all, because their commitment and mine, as Members of Spain, is that every day in our country there are more and better jobs and, of course, better benefits for everyone in the future. This is what we owe our fellow citizens and also, if I may, our children. Thank you very much, honourable Member. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u154	Thank you very much. - OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE GOVERNMENT ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN TO REVERSION THE SITUATION OF LABOR PRECARIEDATION AND TEMPORARY LEVELS IN CONTRACTION. [[File number 172/000079]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u155	We continue with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's urgent appeal to the Government on the measures to be taken to reverse the situation of job insecurity and the levels of temporary recruitment. For your defence, Mrs. Raya Rodriguez has the floor. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, in these days when both the need to strengthen territorial cohesion is alluded to, how positive it would be for the Government of which you are a party to abandon the erratic road map in which it has been constantly moving in the area of employment and finally beginning to take the appropriate measures to achieve social cohesion which, because of your Government, is part of our country's past. Madam Minister, for many reasons it can be said that Spain is a great nation, but after the patriotic sentiments that unite us there is a socially fractured Spain from which you are the sole responsible; Spain in which nine out of ten contracts signed are temporary, with a temporary rate of 27.38 %, four points above that of 2013, with an unstoppable increase in contracts less than one week and in which 58% of employees work part-time on a non-voluntary basis, performing on many occasions more hours than those envisaged in their employment contracts, this aspect which has become one of the fundamental elements of wage devaluation and the lack of social security contributions. From the Socialist Party we have reached out to him with the presentation of initiatives that would allow him to start to change the direction of his employment policies and show that his speech about a bid to improve the quality of employment is true. But, Minister, the answer that we have found was quite the opposite, and proof of this is your abstention, together with that of Citizens, in taking into account the proposal for a law that my group tabled to create a daily working day register to curb the abuse of unpaid overtime and which would create more than 26 000 jobs, as the trade unions in our country have reminded you. The most surprising thing is the excuse that you have put not to support her and that then I have had the opportunity to hear how Citizens seconded her, claiming that the text only addresses women's rights. This, apart from being false - you know it, among other things, because the only thing that makes the proposal is not to speak exclusively of men, and I invite you and your party to use inclusive language in the proposals, as we Socialists do - shows that you have developed an allergy to any measure that seeks to combat the inequality that causes precariousness and temporary work. And this is not the only example. The Socialist Party invites you to reflect on and acknowledge that your labour reform, facilitating the flexibility of dismissal and repealing the implementing priority of the sectoral agreement in favour of the company agreement, has resulted in companies having outsourced with great ease many of their own activities, resulting in a phenomenon that has further affected the unsustainable situation of our workers, such as the increase of multi-service companies and the negotiation of agreements by these companies, often outside the unions and which regulate working conditions far below those laid down in the sectoral collective agreements, causing not only precariousness but inequality between workers who perform the same task at the same work centre but often receiving 50% less wages. Uncontrolled outsourcing has led to a widespread drop in wages that were already insecure, as is the case in the hospitality sector and the agri-food industry. But to correct this, we also put forward a proposal for a law to amend section 42.1 of the Workers' Statute and you omitted case. This data reflects the situation of a job-breaking Spain, which is a direct consequence of the unsustainable working model created by you and the government you are part of; a working model that distils the poorest working essences of the People's Party. This is the true picture of a Spain with social indicators as negative as they are unacceptable, which are the product of the policies of cuts you have implemented and which have ended with a labor reform that is an insurmountable compendium of how to generate poverty successfully and incessantly. You, despite living in the olympic alien to the social reality to which hundreds of thousands of Spaniards are measured every day, are the exclusive culprits that our country looks on its facade as shameful and as blushing social indicators. You have multiplied poverty with your employment policies and become the major drivers of precariousness and temporary working conditions. You, hypocritically convinced of a job success that should only exist in your most immediate environment, are the bearers of a narrow crown of laurels that have been won at hand and that only those who, satisfied, have witnessed the devastation of workers' rights are recognized. You, with your labor reform, have finished the trade union and business balance, and must be the starting point in collective bargaining; you have reduced the trade union muscle and have referred the workers of this country to a plan of inferiority to the employer not only in collective bargaining but have left defenceless thousands of workers who suffer daily in their flesh levels of exploitation that clash frontally with the successful working Spain that only exists in their imagination. We are faced with a new version of 'Spain goes well', but improved by its unfortunate attitude of not wanting to know, of not wanting to know how the Spanish really goes; how it goes to that 1.2 million households in which all its members are unemployed; how it goes to more than 8 million poor workers in our country who cannot even meet their most basic needs; those Spanish and Spanish who need urgent implementation of social cohesion measures such as the rescue of poverty and the risk of social exclusion to those who have been contemplated by the policies of their Government, which is the great godfather of precariousness and temporality. You said that the spring of employment had arrived and you and your Government have done what they have done is contribute to job desertification. In this respect, I would remind you that the last report by Caritas points out that 70% of Spanish households do not perceive the soaring improvement in the economy. And it is that, minister, reducing dismissal, encouraging outsourcing, weakening trade unionism you have sent the workers to a newspaper to save what you can. Hence the laconic affirmation, so in your mouth, before the precarious and temporary work of'something is something', which is the manifest recognition that you are, worth the expression, the unemployed par excellence. Madam Minister, you in particular must be given an undeniable merit, that of establishing equality between the younger and older Spanish segments, segments to which you have referred to discouragement, despair and labour exploitation, and in other cases to survival in the submerged economy. On the one hand there are young people affected by higher rates of temporaryity, partiality and wage devaluation, without the current labour market being able to strengthen or offer training and work to young people without training or adequate work to young people already trained, and on the other hand there are those over fifty-two years old who, once they have lost their jobs, have no chance of returning to the labour market due to the lack of active employment policies and without protection for their successive reforms of unemployment protection. All of this makes us think that this economic recovery that you are talking about is not reaching the workers. Something is not right, Minister, when the reports on the social situation in this country are tinged with negative tones and the economic indicators cast blue numbers. The result of the operation is a socially fractured Spain in which NGOs point to labour reform as the determining factor in the impoverishment of Spanish and Spanish. Get out of the triumphal car, minister, turn your eyes back, land in reality, lose the myopia of your most immediate environment and see that the legion accompanying you is formed by the Spanish impoverished by the employment policies launched by you and your government travel companions. Madam Minister, today you have a magnificent opportunity to tell not only this House, but all the Spanish and Spanish what measures you and your Government are going to take to deal with this situation, which is not to be denounced by the Socialist Party, but also by the Socialist Party, trade unions and NGOs. We would like to hear from you what those concrete measures are, but surely not only to me, but also to the millions of citizens who are waiting for an answer. Proof of this is that the CIS survey published yesterday again highlights the level of unemployment as a major concern among Spaniards. That is why I encourage you today to tell us in detail what measures your Government is going to take. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs. Raya Rodriguez. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, believe me that I am very grateful for the Socialist Party's call to the government today because the great objective of Spanish society is that every day in our country there will be more and better jobs, which for the government is its absolute priority. And I want to start by asking you a question, when is there more hope in Spain, when 1500 jobs are destroyed a day, as was the case with the Socialist Party in the government, or when, as now, 3000 jobs are created every day with the Government of the People's Party and Spanish society? [[Applauds]] That is the big question that should be asked to Spanish society. Madam Member, you told me about the CIS. I also thank you for the fact that, indeed, unemployment is the main concern of the Spanish people, with 66%, which you do not count is the level of concern for unemployment in 2011, when the Socialist Party left the government, which was 82%. We will be doing well as a Spanish society all as it has reduced concern because the recovery is reaching more and more families in this country every day, Your Honor. The merit of the change, of this intensive recovery of employment, is not from the Government, I have said twenty times in this House, it is from all Spanish society, from its enterprises, from its self-employed, from its workers, from the social partners and from the families, everyone is leading with commitment this recovery in our country, a recovery, as I say, intense in employment that no one doubts. Look, 2017 - in October - is consolidated as the best year for employment in homogeneous terms in history since there are records, with 581,000 jobs created from January to October when the goal of this government for this year was to create 500,000 jobs. We already have 15% more than in 2016. Moreover, our country is leading, thanks to this commitment of Spanish society, the decline of unemployment in the last year throughout the eurozone. In Spain, unemployment fell more than in all eurozone countries: 2.5 times more than in Germany, which was the second best; 3.5 times more than in Italy and up to 10 times more than in France. That shared effort by all Spanish society has led to 19 million people working in our country today. So, are we satisfied? No, we are deeply unconformist, we need to reach those 20 million people occupied in Spain, which will be achieved when the recovery has really reached everyone who wants to work, who deserves to work and who today has not found a job. Now, if you ask me, is this change the fruit of chance? Honestly, no. Firstly, it has been thanks to the efforts of Spanish society, but it will also have something to do with aid through measures and reforms, which the Government has made available to economic operators in Spain. Thanks to the labor reform that you are so critical of, today in Spain dismissal is the last resort that companies resort to in crisis situations, the last resort. Prior to 2012, layoffs were the main recourse to companies in crisis situations; therefore, between 2008 and 2011, 70 per cent of the cases were used to adjust the crisis situation in companies, and that is why four million layoffs occurred in our country during that period, with a socialist government. So, has there been a change? Yeah, and it's been a change for the better. Among these changes is, of course, the 2012 labour reform, which is a new culture of employment in Spain, is a model of flexicurity that provides more flexibility for companies to change working conditions and avoid dismissals and is therefore an element of safety for workers. But we have not stayed there, we have reformed active employment policies by linking them to results, especially to inclusion in the labour market; we have helped employment stability with measures as important as the flat rate of EUR 100 or at least EUR 500, and we continue to work with the social partners because we want the recovery to reach the entire Spanish society. I do not deny that intense job creation is taking place, nor do I deny that recovery is inclusive or inclusive in Spain. The sectors or groups most affected by the crisis, such as young people or long-term unemployed, are really beginning to have this confidence in recovery because employment among young people under the age of 25 is growing at a rate of 15%, three times higher than the national average. Today I can tell you, for example, that the Youth Guarantee, which is an instrument of guidance, training and integration, has 900,000 young people registered in Spain who are receiving an opportunity for training, employment or guidance thanks to this European objective and to this commitment by young people. In addition, the long-term unemployed have been strengthened by renewing the programme Prepare in an uninterrupted manner with the agreement of this House, just as we have launched a special activation plan for the long-term unemployed in the social dialogue there for 2014, which is giving clear results, so that today nine out of ten who leave unemployment in Spain are long-term unemployed. Therefore, it is a recovery that is reaching everyone and that also allows the indicators to improve. For example, poverty in Spain has been reduced since 2014, with recovery, double the eurozone average, and the population at risk of poverty in our country has been declining since then year after year. Because, as the International Labour Organization says, 80% of the increase in poverty in Spain has been due to unemployment. I would also like to acknowledge here the work of the social partners, who have acted responsibly during these years and have allowed a healthy pattern of growth in the labour market. Since 2014, it has been possible to create 500 000 jobs per year, gain purchasing power over the wages of most workers and increase productivity and competitiveness in the company. That is the way to continue creating jobs and getting better and better jobs every day. You tell me about quality in employment. I would like to repeat in this House that the quality of employment, of course, begins with having a job, but the data are there. Since recovery, all jobs recovered are full-time. Moreover, part-time employment has fallen by more than 20 000 people. 90% of the indefinite employment destroyed by the crisis and 50% of the temporary employment has been recovered. Undefined employment therefore recovers more quickly. In addition, we are witnessing an unprecedented thing in our country, and it is that forty-five months of uninterrupted growth of indefinite recruitment in Spain, as never before in our history. The best previous period occurred between 2005 and 2007 and was only twenty-eight consecutive months. Therefore, we are moving in the right direction. Note, the third-quarter EPA has certified that for the first time in ten years in inter-annual terms there are more indefinite than temporary contracts in the last year. In other words, we are also making progress on quality. That is why today 74% of people working in Spain have an indefinite contract, and it is true that there are workers who are in a worse situation, but I also want to say in order not to abound in demagogy, as some do, that people who work with a more temporary job, those who have jobs or contracts of less than a month, are 0.89% of the total wage earners in Spain. Is that what I'm worried about? Much and I hope it will soon improve its situation, but it is 0.89 % of the total. There is also a fact that I would like to share with you. The conversion of temporary contracts to fixed ones increases at a rate of 23%, the best data undoubtedly in nine years and we will continue to work for that to improve in the future. We are very unconformist and we want to see a recovery with quality employment and that no one is left behind in that recovery. That is why we are reaching agreements in the social dialogue - because this legislature is also making a pact - in that new plan of confrontation for youth guarantee and employment, in that renewal of the programme It prepares for no one to be left without coverage until we make that renewal of the long-term unemployment programmes that we have committed between all political groups and social actors by April next year, and we also intend to make progress at the Quality in Employment Bureau, which is one of the tables of social dialogue. The Government has made a clear proposal, which you know also, that it is to simplify the number of contracts from four to three so that in Spain there will preferably be an indefinite contract, that the temporary contract in our country will continue to be as causal as it has been and of increasing compensation and that there will then be a third group of contracts, which are the training contracts. In addition, we must make a bonus-malus policy to promote and encourage indefinite recruitment and discourage companies that abuse excessive time or rotation in recruitment and, of course, we will continue to strengthen the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate. You tell me, Your Honor, about the outsourcing of activities. See, subcontracting in Spain is a natural phenomenon, as in the rest of the countries of the European Union; now, do not blame the labour reform on the abuse of subcontracting because the 2012 labour reform did not change anything in this area; indeed, I am confident that in the proposed law in this House on Article 42 there is a great political pact to improve these conditions of subcontracted workers. But do not say, because it is not true, that the labour reform of 2012 worsened this circumstance; on the contrary, what the Ministry of Employment has done is, if it is possible, as a labour authority, to denounce abusive conduct and agreements in this regard, and for this we have demanded before the National Court the behaviors that we thought were not in conformity with the law. Also, eighty agreements that came to the ministry, in response to the request for greater adjustment to the regulations by the Labour Authority and the Labour Authority, chose to give up; that is, we are also doing our job, which is to control the norm and avoid abuses, as they are doing every day - and I want to thank you from here - the Labour Inspectors and Sub-Inspectors, who are the last guarantee of the quality of employment in Spain. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u159	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Raya Rodriguez, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u160	Madam Minister, the truth is that your speech no longer surprises us, among other things because it is always the same, the same triumphalist speech that interprets numbers and statistics as best suits you and your Government. I remind you that it has been six years of management, it is good to make reference to the socialist heritage, because if you want to remember it: our heritage has been the advance of Spanish society, the primacy of equal opportunities, the strengthening of collective bargaining and also the millions of pensions that you have squandered. [[Applauds]] I will tell you more, Minister, in your six years of management we have achieved higher unemployment figures than in 2013, at least in the last decade. You would deserve more the name of Minister of Unemployment than that of Minister of Employment, because in this country there have been unbearable levels of unemployment for the majority of Spanish society. And it is normal for you to tell me that the layoffs have dropped, of course they have dropped, but they have done so because there are no indefinite contracts and what has increased are the purposes of contracts because the majority of contracts in our country are temporary. It is true that employment is an instrument against poverty, but hunger and basic needs do not understand time frames, timetables or almanacs, they only understand the urgency of meeting their most basic needs. For me to understand, most Spaniards in our country can't make it to the end of the month. You, with your labor reform, have brought the Spaniards to the realm of poverty, while for the rich they used the magic rod of tax amnesty. And I do not call on the social partners to say that they have increased wages in this country and that they have increased productivity, because productivity in this country has only increased at the cost of the wage devaluation suffered by workers. Madam Minister, what do you say to this which was published a few days ago that Spain is setting up zero-hour contracts? I know that you are going to answer that in Spain is illegal, but the use of contracts less than a week and the abuse of one-day contracts makes this today in Spain a reality. You have been asked what you intend to do and I ask you here today: what do you intend to do to stop this in our country? [[The lady]] Minister, temporality is the perfect wrapping to accentuate precariousness and this grows alarmingly in the Spanish market. Proof of this is that, despite the growth of signed contracts - I think you do not differentiate between signed contracts and jobs; contracts can be signed many, in fact every day in this country many are signed, but they do not generate jobs -, in this country today there are a million fewer jobs than a decade ago. And when you name me the EPA, what do you want me to tell you? If we compare the third quarter of 2011 with the third quarter of 2017, there are 147,300 full-time indefinite contracts less than in 2011. But the most serious thing is that there are 220,800 more undefined part-time contracts, is that the quality of the job you bet on, Minister? [[Applauds]] Temporary contracts, as the EPA shows, 353 900 more than in 2011. 67.71 % of the contracts signed last September - one of the Socialist Parliamentary Group's colleagues reminded us the other day in one question - are of a duration of less than one week. Contingent one-day contracts have increased by 100,2 % compared to the first quarter of 2008. Madam Minister, what do you say about this, you are continuing to highlight an employment reform which is the only thing you have contributed to is precisely having this data that deepens and deepens the precariousness and poverty of our workers? I would like you to give me an explanation but I cannot understand it alone but I can understand it by the rest of the Spanish citizenship, which is suffering in its meats, as I said before, those levels of exploitation. Madam Minister, we ask you to repeal the labour reform because there is a direct relationship - we have pointed out this to you and the NGOs - between your labour reform and precariousness. And I will tell you one thing, Minister, after your speech it is as obvious as it is painful to see that as you die of success, thousands of Spaniards because of their labor reform try not to die of hunger every day. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u161	To conclude the debate, the Minister for Employment and Social Security has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u162	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, believe me that it is hard to hear you criticise the government and give employment lessons with the management that the Socialist Party did of the crisis and with what you did, that it was to send more than three million people to unemployment, with a management - believe me - quite deficient of an adverse situation that lived Spain between 2008 and 2011. But whether you like it or not, I speak rigorously and above all count figures and data that are real. And whether you like it or not, thanks to the reforms, I insist, and the commitment of Spanish society from the beginning of the recovery in Spain is created stable employment for the first time in the exit of any crisis that has occurred; it did not happen in the nineties, when we had to wait eighteen months for it to start creating indefinite employment. In this crisis, at this moment, since we started the recovery, stable employment is created. And the level today - whether you like it or not - of employees who have an indefinite contract is 74.3%, 7.5 points more than before the crisis. That's the reality. Look, there are workers who have a weaker contractual situation, but you can't deny that those who have a contract of less than a month - and there enter the contracts by hours and the contracts of days - are 0.89% of the total employees, who, as I told you, worry me, but we must continue to seek solutions and favor them since the agreements. Your Honor, whether you like it or not, in the last year, according to the EPA, more indefinite contracts were signed than temporary, and here are the official statistics. Moreover, since the recovery, indefinite contracts have increased over the total by 67% more than one-week contracts. Therefore, we can improve and we will do so with the commitment of the entire Spanish society, but that is the reality. On the other hand, you tell me about a specific situation. If you know of any irregularities, I do not know why you have come to this House and have not denounced it before to the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, which is the ultimate guarantor of workers' rights. I am very proud of those officials, who are working independently and professionally and who are allowing Spain today to have a great result in the Plan to combat fraud in the field of labour and social security. They have made it possible for 480,000 jobs to emerge since 2012; 320,000 temporary contracts have been converted into indefinite contracts because they were badly done by entrepreneurs and more than 6600 fictitious companies that had no more known economic activity than defrauding Social Security. The overall economic impact of all this work done by officials since 2012 has amounted to almost EUR 20 billion for the public coffers. Therefore, commitment to employment, commitment every day to quality employment and also commitment by all groups in this House to promote measures that continue to convert inclusive recovery into stable jobs. And I want to encourage from here support and respect for the social partners, who - believe me - have done their work with responsibility by encouraging that since 2014 there are 500 000 jobs in our country every year, better wages and gain of purchasing power and that companies are allowed to compete better to continue to create jobs in the future. Your Honor, I want the Socialist Party to add, working for employment and quality in employment, and to achieve the great goal of the 20 million people working in Spain we have a million reasons to add; let us add for those people, for those Spaniards who demand our responsibility. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u163	Thank you very much. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas, on the measures to be taken THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN FOR THE VIABILITY AND CONTINUITY OF THE PRODUCTIVE ACTIVITIES OF THE CANARY PARD IN OUR COUNTRY. [[File number 172/000077]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u164	Urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Spain for the viability and continuity of the productive activity of the banana of the Canary Islands in our country. For her defence, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u165	Thank you, Madam President. The Canary Islands Coalition brings this question to the House today about the future of bananas because my group believes that the viability of agricultural production is at risk, which is much more than agricultural production, because it has to do with the landscape of the Canary Islands, with employment, with environmental reasons and, above all, at a very difficult time for certain Canary Islands when seeking alternative jobs. As I say, it's not just agricultural production. When these fourteen million tourists come to the Canary Islands, they look like the Mirador de Humboldt, in the Orotava, or the Mirador de El Time, in La Palma, they say: how beautiful! That's not a garden, that's not going to continue to be part of the landscape unless we look for the economic viability of an economic production. [[The lady]] But the banana of the Canary Islands also means employment. It is not a small multinational or four multinationals that have banana workers in semi-slavery conditions in Latin America or Africa. The figures for the banana sector in the Canary Islands are: 8500 producers, 9000 hectares - which means an average of one hectare per producer -, 7500 jobs stable, well paid, fixed, and 5500 indirect jobs; in addition, it is income supplement of more than 4000 canaries, so they can reach a minimum income. Therefore, we are talking about employment and on the island of La Palma it accounts for 10% of all employment, but so that you know, in municipalities such as Fuentecaliente, Puntallana, San Andrés and Sauces and Tijarafe it accounts for 50% of employment, and in a municipality such as Tazacorte it accounts for 75% of jobs; in Tenerife, both in Los Silos and in Buenavista, it accounts for 34% of employment. Not only that, then there is the transport of the banana: the departure of three ships every week with 450 trucks and 9 million tons of bananas to the Peninsula that allows after those ships return with the goods that we import to the Canary Islands, but so and so we have the basket of the most expensive purchase of Spain. If those ships didn't come out full, we'd have to pay double freight for the Canary Islands goods. For you to get an idea: one of the 450 trucks that comes every week to the Peninsula contains the bananas that can be given - giving four per head - to all those who attend the Barça-Real Madrid party in the Bernabéu, being at the top of people. I'm telling you to get an idea of how much you're carrying a single truck. There is a very important environmental issue. The banana of the Canary Islands is environmentally friendly, we have no pests, no diseases or will see the airplanes smoking. However, we have to compete with African bananas and those coming from Latin America that smoke, although there are special Spanish sanitary and phytosanitary requirements, and we hope that customs will continue to be controlled so that we continue without pests or diseases. That banana has elements that are banned in Europe; the banana of the Canary Islands, no. But not just that. Then there's the carbon footprint issue. The banana of the Canary Islands is the closest to the consumer and to Europe and yet come the ships of Latin America, which affect the carbon footprint. The canary is only 2500 kilometers away. Eating a banana from the Canary Islands, even though it seems prepotent, we are also helping the global environment, of course we do. I'm still on important issues. The banana production sector of the Canary Islands has been an example in Europe and Spain because it has been a model of organization and activity that has had an important conversion, that has marketing criteria, that meets, as I say, the health requirements at the highest level, that is part of the brand Spain and that is an example for other productive sectors of Europe and this country in terms of organization and criteria, but at the moment what is happening? That there are some very important threats, and I'm already in them. Why are these threats given? These threats are due, on the one hand, to the continued reduction in the minimum profitability generated by the reduction in revenues due to the tariff decrease and the increase in costs due to remoteness and insularity and, on the other hand, to the uncertainty about the financial support which, as you know, was agreed for 2020 and which also did not predict the subsequent decline or the opening up of banana imports to the market. All this has made - I don't know if they know it - that the canary banana at the moment, although in the end in the green price there is a difference of 4.5, in the end selling price to the consumer, however much richer, is a 150 more expensive than the Latin American banana. There is unfair competition with banana productions which have products banned in production in the European Union. In addition, there is a new focus of competition that is very important, that of Africa, which so far did not exist. African production is aimed at the Portuguese market and Spanish, the Iberian Peninsula. We have to work on this because there will be no chance of competing under quality, price and requirements with that African banana that is entering the Iberian Peninsula like a cannon. That is why, since the Canary Coalition today, we have been asking the Government and in recent months at the Agricultural Council of the Canary Government, we have worked hard with the Minister. The motion we are going to table next week has four fundamental points. As you know, there is a decree regulating compensation for the carriage of goods with the Canary Islands. Although the budget line is basically in Fomento, it seemed to me and the Government that the political debate on the viability of bananas had to be done in the area of agriculture. That decree clearly provided that at the time of a decline and a fall in prices, compensation for the transport of bananas had to be activated. In Coalition Canaria we believe that the circumstances are in place so that already in the budgets of the government that come out of this House for 2018 is endowed the compensation to the transport, like the rest of the agricultural and industrial goods of Canarias. Secondly, we believe it is essential to reconstitute the European Intergovernmental Working Group of Friends of the Banana, with the participation of the Governments of Spain, France and Portugal, but led by Spain, in order to coordinate the defence strategy with the Community institutions. Let us not forget that Spain accounts for 60% of all European banana production, so we believe that at this stage Spain has to lead it, something that did not happen to other governments because, at one point, the banana of the Canary Islands defended it better France than the Spanish government itself, which abandoned it. That does not happen at this time and that is why the recovery of the group seems so important to us. We also believe that the collaboration between the ministry and the banana sector must be formalised in order to regularly monitor the banana and banana market in Spain. We also want to transfer interest to the European Union in considering tariff cuts to be taken into account in any future trade negotiations between the European Union and Morocco. And we also want the Spanish Government to insist in Europe on maintaining and protecting the banana sector, because of the social, economic, landscape, environmental and employment-generating value that this sector has on the islands. As you know, the Royal Decree of 2009 stated, in the first final provision, that it empowered the Ministers of Development and Economics and Finance, on a proposal from the Minister of the Environment, to issue provisions allowing the incorporation of bananas under certain conditions. Today we are questioning the Government because we believe that what was provided for by the decree - those conditions of disbelief that occurred within two months, that price drop - makes it necessary to activate compensation for the transport of bananas. That is why we ask the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister to urge the Government to study and incorporate in the 2018 budgets the financial statement of the transport of bananas and to continue with the rest of the policy before the European Commission, forming pineapple with France and Portugal but this time leading it Spain. Let us not forget that we represent 60% of the production and let us not forget that the banana is not only ecological, it is our landscape and a work formula worthy, stable, with pay and with 8500 producers. We are not going to leave the field of canary banana to a banana that does not know and that is also in the hands of large American multinationals that exploit their workers, that use pesticides and that moreover, above all, they are throwing down one of the possibilities of diversification worthy of work in my canary land. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u166	Thank you very much, honourable Member. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u167	Thank you very much, President. Allow me first of all, before I go into the details of the situation in the Canary banana sector, to transfer this Government's commitment to the Canary Islands. A commitment that we recently endorsed in April with the agreement for this year's General State Budgets, which is an impetus for infrastructure in the Canary Islands and for advancing the objective of creating employment on the islands. This budgetary agreement recognises the ultraperipheral nature of the Canary Islands and therefore makes it necessary for public administrations to respond to and deal positively with these very special circumstances. In short, it is an agreement designed to solve the problems of the canaries, to offer them new employment opportunities, to improve basic services and their infrastructures with the recovery and better provision of agreements such as roads, educational infrastructures, hydraulic works and coasts, on which we are already working, as you well know. Having said that, and focusing on the reason for the interpellation, the Government is fully aware of the importance of the banana sector to the Canarian economy and, therefore, we have always maintained a clear commitment in defence of this sector. In this regard, during the negotiations carried out for the reform of aid to producers under the programme of options specific to remoteness and insularity, known as Posei, the Government of Spain has always taken into account the need to establish an amount of aid for bananas that compensates for the damage that might result from the European Union's trade agreements with third parties. Regulation (EU) No 228/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council lays down specific measures in the agricultural sector for the outermost regions of the Union. Article 23 states that Member States may grant additional funding for the implementation of the Posei provided that they notify it to the Commission as part of those programmes and that the Commission approves it under the said programmes. The Community support programme for agricultural production in the Canary Islands provides for support measures aimed at alleviating the constraints to which the agriculture of the archipelago is subject, which are conditional on its remoteness, insularity, fragmentation of the territory and other difficulties arising from its location, orography and other economic difficulties. The overall objective of the measures applied to agricultural production is to preserve the development and strengthen the competitiveness of traditional agricultural activities on the islands, including the production, processing and marketing of local products and crops. On 5 December 2016, the European Commission notified the Ministry that the amendment proposed by the Spanish authorities on the Community Agricultural Production Support Programme for the Canary Islands was compatible with Community legislation by authorising its implementation, including additional annual national funding. El Posei is a very beneficial program for the Canary Islands, as it contributes about 270 million euros per year. This makes it possible to give stability to the producing sector and to the food supply of the islands. Given the exposed importance of Posei's support measures for Canarian agricultural production and with the aim of co-financing the national part in the additional funding planned for 2017 in Posei, the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment considered it appropriate to contribute EUR 15 million from the 2017 State General Budgets. [[The lady]] This amount has already been distributed at the Sectoral Conference on Agriculture and Rural Development that we held on 2 October. The compensatory aid for banana producers in the European Union was established in the common organisation of the market in bananas from 1993 to 2006 in which it was abolished. The main reasons for this change were the different trade agreements concluded between the European Union and the ACP countries, the outcome of the World Trade Organisation negotiations and the modification of the Posei itself, the result of which led to a reduction in entry tariffs and the setting up of aid through the Posei in compensation. Since then, an additional check has been approved for banana producers in the outermost regions of the European Union within the Posei since 2007. It is important to note a very significant figure. As I said, the financial statement for the entire Posei de Canarias is almost EUR 270 million per year. Of this amount, EUR 141 million per year has been allocated to bananas, which means more than 50% of the total and, if we exclude the REA, more than 70%. The origin of this quantity comes from the European Union's compensatory cheque resulting from the WTO tariff negotiations and ACP negotiations. Thanks to the negotiations of the Government of Spain during the reform of the current Posei Regulation, it was possible to increase by 20,24 million euros in the year 2013 the amount destined for the banana sector of the Canary Islands, a negotiation that was carried out jointly with France, Portugal and the Spanish producer sector itself to accelerate the approval of an additional Posei aid for the banana of 40 million euros, of which, as I said, 20 million corresponded to the Canary Islands. Our government was with the banana of the Canary Islands, we and also our MEPs, and it deserves a special mention by MEP Gabriel Mato because it had a lot to do with this achievement. The future of Posei aid is not questioned. European legislation must provide a framework for stability. There are no planned Community amendments which could alter this system. Moreover, the current design of banana aid has no distorting effects that question its continuity. Support for the banana sector through the Posei will maintain the amounts as long as the Government of the Canary Islands maintains this distribution of aid in its annual amendment proposals. The importance of canary bananas is demonstrated by the fact that 55% of the European Union's banana production corresponds to the Canary Islands, with production in 2016 of more than 420 000 tonnes and a value close to EUR 160 million. The banana production of the Canary Islands is mainly marketed in Spain. Foreign trade data do not distinguish between bananas from the Canary Islands and bananas from third countries, although Spain's average export is around 90 000 tonnes in the years 2014 to 2016, with an upward trend, mostly destined for Portugal. However, it is necessary to strengthen the role of producer organisations in promoting the access of canary bananas to European markets. The European Union's tariff reductions to bananas provided for in various multilateral agreements, the WTO agreement in 2009, as well as the granting of aid to the ACP countries to improve their competitiveness, in force since 1 January 2008, should be taken into account when analysing the situation of canary bananas on European markets and, in particular, on the Spanish market, which is their main destination. Despite these agreements, it is also true that overall imports from the European Union have stabilized in recent years, although there has been some increase in imports from the ACP countries and a decline in the countries of the dollar zone. As a result, they have not reduced banana production in the Canary Islands, which even in recent years would have gone from around 350 000 tonnes to around 400 000 tonnes in the triennium 2015-2017. The most recent is the European Union-Ecuador Free Trade Agreement, which was ratified in 2016 and which means, in fact, an incorporation of Ecuador into the agreement signed by the European Union with the countries of the Andean Community. I would like once again to highlight the efforts made by the Government of Spain to achieve an improvement in the stabilisation mechanism for bananas provided for in the European Union-Andean Community agreement, taking advantage of Ecuador's incorporation into it. These efforts were rewarded by the incorporation into the text of virtually all the amendments tabled in the European Parliament's debates, e.g. the application of the transitional period to Ecuador since the signing of the agreement. In this way, the stabilisation mechanism would continue for Ecuador until 2027, if the agreement was signed this year, rather than ending in 2019, as foreseen in the current text. In addition, it has been possible to introduce an obligation for the Commission to notify the Council and Parliament in writing when it is nearing activation volume, as well as improvements in the monitoring of imported quantities, so that there is greater scope for taking the necessary measures if the activation volume is exceeded. On the other hand, I would like to highlight the opportunity offered by the promotion and recovery activities in European markets carried out by the sector and by the Government. In this sense, the IGP Banana of the Canary Islands was included in the Register of Protected Geographical Indications of the European Union in 2013. Similarly, the geographical opportunity of the proximity of the European Union, the world's largest consumer, and the growing environmental awareness of the Union's consumers favour the consumption of Canary bananas, since their carbon footprint, as your Lordship has said, is much lower than that of imported bananas. Your Honor, the Government is continuing to work to improve the viability of the canary banana sector in the future. In this way we are working on the defence of the sector, firstly by supporting and defending the continuity of banana aid within the framework of the Posei; secondly, the Government will ensure that the import control provisions laid down in the trade agreements affecting the banana of the Canary Islands are properly complied with and that this Government has managed to improve in the last amendment of the agreement with the Andean Community. In addition, the Government will continue to defend banana production in the Canary Islands in the light of forthcoming trade negotiations that may occur or changes to existing ones. In this direction, I would also like to highlight the effort we are making to reach an agreement, together with France and Portugal, within the Friends of the Banana Group, which serves as a tool to improve dialogue between producer countries, to share information and to be able to work together to defend sectoral interests. He also knows that we are doing our utmost to ensure that this meeting of the three countries, of the three ministers, is held in the Canary Islands. The Government will continue to support all activities to promote and enhance the banana of the Canary Islands, which have worked perfectly, turning the banana of the Canary Islands into a product with a very good image and highly appreciated by the Spanish consumer. As you have seen with all the measures, the Government's commitment to the canary banana sector is more than demonstrated. Before concluding, I would like to highlight the good work done by our banana producers, who have been able to adapt to the market conditions and trade liberalisations of recent years. They have managed to increase both the production and exports of bananas from the Canary Islands in recent years and have recorded very good consumption data. This adaptation has also been possible thanks to the maintenance of the Posei aid, for which this Government has fought in all the debates that have taken place in the European institutions, and will continue to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u168	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Impact has left me, Minister. I have not been able to tell the whole banana issue in twelve minutes and you in ten minutes, which seems very good to me, have used it to talk about employment plans, the road agreement, the hydraulic works agreement, the history of the decline, how rich the Canary bananas are, how competitive they are, the good image they have, how well the government is doing, their MEPs... But I have raised specific issues with him. I'm going to put it to you all again, and if not, I'll see you next week on the motion. I have raised a vital issue with you. I'm not talking about the past or the history of the last ten years. We can talk about what happened in 2009 with the disbelief, what he's competing with right now, but we're not at ease. You will be calm, but we are not calm with either the African banana or the 2020 negotiation. That's why it's not a group of friends who come together to talk, it's to pressure. Here it is not Don Gabriel, who seems to me very good to add the Euro MPs of all the parties; here it was Leopoldo Cólogan and Alonso Arroyo with a fundamental role, and at the time when Spain broke up it was the Government of France that saved the banana of the Canary Islands at a critical moment. And now we say that having Brexit in 2020, problems of financial statement, that defense of European banana has to be led by the Government of Spain. But most importantly, the decree on transport compensation clearly provides that at the time of the decline, which has already occurred, and of the fall in prices, the Minister of Agriculture will inform the Minister of Development and the Government to between the application of the inclusion of the financial sheet of the transport of bananas. But more than that, a year ago an investment agreement was signed between Coalition Canaria and the People's Party. [[Show a document]] This, which was also signed by its Secretary-General and by the President of the Government, in which - I will read it - it says in point 8: In the field of goods transport, the recovery of subsidies for the transport of up to 70% in agricultural goods - including bananas -, agro-industrial, industrial, inter-island traffic and with the peninsula. His party's investment commitment; a commitment that did not take place in 2017 because financial reasons were raised and that the budget lines would be in 2018. And today - and if not, we will see each other next Tuesday in the vote on the motion - I ask the minister in particular: Do you consider that, as this clause of the decree contained, the circumstances for the incorporation of the financial statement of the banana are given in the face of the decline and the fall in prices? I don't say 100 percent in 2018, but I do create it. That is what we are putting forward by the Canarian nationalists and there has been even unanimity in their political strength before the agricultural sector. By the way, I would like to greet the representatives of Asprocan; those 8500 small producers, not those American multinationals, those people who defend 15,000 decent jobs linked to the banana sector. Because although the government is calm, the rest of us are not calm and we know that this is not one day at a time but that we must move forward, that we must start negotiating with Europe, that we must make up for the issue of transport because Africa is already there, and the objective of Africa is not Europe, it is Spain and Portugal, and we are not competing on equal terms, neither phytosanitary nor cost. I thank you very much, and I also know that you are working and I know that you have perhaps been tied up and have prepared that speech by talking about the employment plans, the road agreement, the Posei, but I have come here today for a specific issue: Does the Minister of Agriculture believe that the conditions are in place to activate the budgetary allocation in the 2018 budgets of compensation for the transport of bananas? That's my question and I expect your answer. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u170	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and the Environment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u171	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, I said in my first speech - and I insist - that the Government is very aware of the special circumstances of the Canary Islands because of its ultraperipheral character. That is why the Spanish Government's commitment to the Canary Islands is unquestionable, we have demonstrated this in recent years and will continue to do so. I think it is important to highlight the agreement reached for the general budgets of the State; it is an agreement that, by focusing on the powers of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment, allows to promote investments in hydraulic works and coasts and also in infrastructures, because that also conditions the viability of the banana sector, because that also improves its competitiveness and because they are important, Your Honor, also for the production of bananas. I have had the opportunity to see on the ground how the Ministry's investments, for example, in the modernisation of irrigation, improve the profitability of banana producers in the Canary Islands. In this regard, we are working on a partnership agreement with the Government of the Canary Islands for the development of water actions, which I would also like to see recognised and valued, because it affects very directly the competitiveness of the banana sector. We are also working on coastal action, not forgetting, as I mentioned in my previous speech, the co-financing of the national part of the Posei, because of the importance of measures to support agricultural productivity in the Canary Islands. He knows that the 15 million euros of the budget planned for 2017 are not negligible and are worthy to put into value in this way, because they have already been territorialized. The positive effects of these actions, along with other measures from other sectors, will be beneficial to all the citizens of the Canary Islands. And with a focus on the banana sector, I do not doubt that we are constantly working to analyse and ensure its viability, because nothing I have mentioned before is negligible in the interest of the Canary Islands producers. In this line of work I can tell you that in the coming weeks, as I have told you, and led by Spain, as you ask, I will meet with the Portuguese minister, Luís Capoulas, and with the French minister, Stéphane Travert, to share information and work together in the defense of interests and in the maintenance of banana productions, in the short and long term, and it is no less important. On the other hand, and unrelated to the Posei, there is a demand from the sector that it be included within the products with subsidies for transport to the continent. Currently, as you know, subsidies are applied to transport cost elements in the following articles: in almost all agricultural products, especially tomatoes; also since December 2014 in thyme and basil, as well as in industrial products and products processed in the Canary Islands. As you are well aware, Your Honor, the 2017 State General Budgets Act has agreed to increase subsidies for the maritime and air transport of goods originating in or intended for the Canary Islands from 70 % to 100 %. This subsidy is based on Royal Decree 170/2009 of the Ministry of Development and subsequent amendments, which, as you know, expressly exclude bananas from this subsidy line. The reason for this exclusion is because the banana sector receives significant aid through the Posei, you know, of more than EUR 140 million each year, and that is why priority has been given to the other products in order to complete the financing of them according to the budgetary appropriations. In addition, taking into account the distribution of this additional aid by the Government of the Canary Islands, which decides where it will allocate all State aid, the EUR 15 million contributed by the Government of Spain to the agricultural sector in the Canary Islands is added to this EUR 270 million of European funds. However, ladies and gentlemen, I am very aware of your approach and therefore the ministry will continue - we are on top of this - to follow the banana market on time. Do not have any doubt that if the conditions for inclusion in the list of agricultural beneficiaries of aid for the transport of goods are given, as stipulated in the royal decree that you have quoted, we will transfer this request to the Ministry of Development for the implementation of the royal decree. I would also like to mention, and I have said this before, another key factor in enabling the banana sector to achieve sufficiently competitive costs, and it is the optimisation of water resources, because this is also important, it is permanent, it is structural and it remains forever in the banana sector, which is a sector with high consumption. In this respect, the Government has made, and we will continue to make, significant investments, especially on the island of La Palma, in the modernization of irrigation, which I stress is a permanent structural benefit in the production costs of the banana sector. And I do not doubt - as you have seen and as I have detailed - that there is a long battery of measures for the defence of the banana sector in the Canary Islands, because it must be defended in its entirety, since everything counts, everything sums up. In the international agreements, the defence of the Posei, the defence of the infrastructures in the Canary Islands, the defence of the modernization of the Canary Islands irrigation are such important structural measures as the measure that, if necessary, will be implemented with the real decree of support for the transport of the Canary Islands, because we want to guarantee the future of a single product that is fundamental for the economy, employment, culture and - as you have said - the landscape of the Canary Islands, and we will continue to work in this line to achieve it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-08-CD171108.u172	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Before we adjourn the session, I remind you that you do not drink coffee in the Chamber, that to have coffee there is the cafeteria. Thank you very much. The meeting rose. It was twelve thirty-five minutes from noon.
