ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Hernando Vera, Member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government, yesterday all the groups in the House, with the exception of yours, the People's Party, reproach the Minister of Justice, the Attorney-General of the State and the Prosecutor for Anti-Corruption. We blame them, but the recipient, of course, is you. That's why I'm asking you two questions. First, if you consider that keeping them in their posts is positive for the credibility of justice. Secondly, if you consider that the Government's reaction to the cases of corruption we have known is the right one. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u3	Thank you very much. Mr President of the Government, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u4	Thank you, Mr. Hernando. At first, I say yes. I have full confidence in the people you have referred to. And with regard to the Government's relationship to corruption, it pursues four objectives. The first is to prevent it and, therefore, to improve controls; secondly and thirdly, to pursue it and to discover it, we must support those who have this function entrusted to us by our Constitution and by our legal system, and the fourth major objective would be to punish it, so we have increased the sanctions. Honestly, although it is never enough, we are improving both in the control and in the public knowledge of it. Now it is known and discovered, as well as its sanction, but, I insist, we all have to persevere. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Hernando.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u6	Mr. Rajoy, I didn't expect anything else from you anymore. How will you make them resign or will you cease if you are doing what you want them to do, which is stopping the avalanche of corruption that is coming upon you? Loyal to justice are not being, but obedient to you, a lot, and that's why it keeps them where it keeps them. But, look, last week there was some news about an alleged blackmail of his person by a people about the corruption of the People's Party. His spokesman hastened to deny them. But why do we have to have an entire president of the government at the mercy of this kind of information? Because in the heart of your problems, Mr Rajoy, the black financing of the People's Party for twenty years continues and because yesterday we had the umpteenth report of the Civil Guard - in this case mentioning Cristina Cifuentes - regarding the cancellation of contracts in the Community of Madrid, Mr Rajoy. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u7	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u8	And because you live in vilo at the mercy of corruption from those famous SMS, at the mercy of the courts and not only of the courts, but also of blackmailers, Mr Rajoy. And the reaction of the government is not adequate since its government delegate in Madrid, when accused, criticizes justice; the president of the Community of Madrid, when involved by the Civil Guard, criticizes justice, and the lawyers of the People's Party in this writing ask you to declare through plasma, Mr Rajoy. If you live ten minutes from the National High Court and do not declare as President of the Government, declare as President of the People's Party! I imagine that for you it is not pleasant to go to the National Audience and cross eyes with colleagues of all life who are now on the bench, but neither do you think it is a good procedural strategy to do so from a Genoa office reformed with black money. Mr Rajoy, if you want to make citizens believe - we no longer believe anything - that you are seriously fighting corruption, renounce your privileges and go to the National Court in person. I can tell you in another way: Mr. Rajoy, be strong, face the court and forget about the plasma. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u9	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u10	Mr Hernando, if you know that I was not going to cease the minister or the prosecutors, I do not know why you are asking me - and also in Parliament - to proceed with your cessation, especially when you yourself have just acknowledged here that I was not going to cease them. You were right, Mr. Hernando. I recommend that in the future you do not waste your time in this House. You speak of blackmail and you say that someone has had to deny that information. I do not even bother to deny it, just as I am not going to deny many of the statements you have just made in this House because I am not willing to enter into the game of some. What I can tell you is that little more can I add to what I said last week, the previous week and the previous week in this House, I will not repeat the endless number of laws that have undoubtedly been useful in improving the fight against corruption, or all the means we have put at the disposal of those who have to fight it. I'm not going to tire you out, and I wouldn't have time to talk about all the corruption cases that affect your party. If I should like to say to you, Mr Hernando, that you should put forward some ideas so that we can all be more effective in the fight against corruption, you should defend the presumption of innocence and not apply that concept which is already being generalizedly called the presumption of guilt and support the measures we have proposed. Frankly, I think the most important thing in the fight against corruption right now is that next Sunday, the 21st, your Pentecost comes and you stop doing merit so that you win one and don't lose another. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF ALBERT RIVERA DÍAZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK FORESTS RELATED TO PUBLIC POLITICAL AND REPRESENTATIVE CHARGES, AS PROVIDED FOR THE 94 INVESTIGATION COUNTRY AGREEMENT? [[File number 180/00258]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u11	Question by Mr Albert Rivera Díaz, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, also to the President of the Government. Go ahead, Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u12	Thank you, President. Mr President, last December, after signing the investiture agreement for you to be president - you had won the elections - Citizens demanded a number of conditions to change some of the current laws. You were telling Mr. Hernando to come up with some ideas. It is true that Mr Hernando and others do not propose many ideas, but I will propose one that is in the investiture agreement and that you will have to commit because your spokesman signed it. Mr Rajoy, I was asking the Vice-President in December about this matter, the removal of the outbursts of our Constitution, so that all public offices in this House, the Senate and the Government do not have any privileges and, if they ever accuse anyone, we do not have to go to a special court or a special court, but rather go to a natural court. After almost six months since the investiture, after the Vice-President's reply, having already abolished the embargoes in some status of autonomy, as in Murcia, already in progress in Andalusia, having made the proposal in Castile and León and in Madrid, I would like to ask you, Mr Rajoy, who says that we should not only talk about the mess, but about proposals: is the People's Party willing to commit itself to an express reform of the Constitution so that no one in this House will have to go to the Supreme Court or to any foreclosure and we can be tried, if it touches us, in a court of first instance, with a natural judge, like any other citizen? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u13	Thank you very much. Mr President of the Government, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u14	Thank you very much. Mr Rivera, I would like to make a few comments and submit them to you for your consideration. As you know, the legislature has just begun. We have fulfilled many aspects of our investment agreement. There's time for the others. But this matter which you are interested in is no less and we should do so, because it is no less, with a broad agreement on the substance of the matter and also with an agreement which has as much support as possible in this House, and none of this is happening, at least in my opinion, at this time. There are some issues that concern me, Mr Rivera, and I think we should work on. Article 71 of the Spanish Constitution states that deputies are inviolable by the opinions expressed in the exercise of their functions. That is to say, that any one of us here can say what we consider appropriate and appropriate about anyone and that does not have any effect. Also deputies and senators, according to the Constitution, have immunity, i.e. they cannot be detained except in the case of flagrante delicto. Nor can Members and Senators be prosecuted or charged without the permission of this House. Fourthly, he said that they would have to be tried by the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court. Do we just want to change this or do we not want to change the part about inviolability, immunity and authorization to prosecute? Because that is certainly a much greater guarantee for Members. For what crimes? Is it only for those not related to public life or for those related to public life that it does not change? Ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Members of Parliament, on their way to the Supreme Court, have no opportunity to appeal. If we make a change, the one you propose, how many instances will they have the right to use in the event that they are convicted? There are 2000 outposts between public and elected officials, 15,000 judges and prosecutors and 263,000 partial outposts of the Armed Forces and the State Security Forces and Corpses. Does this affect everyone? I sincerely believe that we should think about it, as we should think if it is good that there are autonomous Members of Parliament, not the Members or the Central Senators, because that can affect the principle of equality of the Spanish people. That is why I propose that we have a debate on this matter, that we study the matter and that we bring it here with knowledge to adopt it in its day. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u15	Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u16	Mr. President, this conversation was with you and me in August, before closing the investiture agreement, but you seem like a law student rather than an executive. Decisions have to be made, Mr. Rajoy. You are not here to ask rhetorical questions: and what do we do with what article and what could we do with what? Make, Mr. Rajoy, act, change. The Vice-President replied to me the same thing as you did in December. How long, Mr. Rajoy? Don't be afraid you'll lose your grip, we don't have to be afraid to go to a court that doesn't choose it... [[Rumors]] Don't get nervous, they're very nervous today, I don't know why. Mr. Rajoy, what I'm asking you to do is act. You're a government, we're legislators. Here we have a proposal that we have made known to your group, not to ask questions of scholar, but to be executive and legislative. In this reform document, in which we talk about those two articles that you say, which I know as well as you, there is already a signature stamped, is the signature of the Citizens Parliamentary Group, and with your signature, if you have a word, should be Mr Hernando's, 169 seats, and then go look for more seats. This is where you have to run, Mr. Rajoy. Reforms will be done with or without the People's Party, but they must be done. Don't be afraid and don't say this is a mess, because it's the mess that you have mounted. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u17	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u18	I agree, Mr Rivera, that we have to make decisions, but not by too much early dawn, and if you go too fast, you run the risk of crashing. [[Laughter]] What is at stake is that it should dawn, and for it to dawn, it is appropriate to study the issues well and, instead of being canning with the past, to look to the future and make concrete proposals. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT HAVE ANYTHING TO TELL THE KILLS OF PERSONS THAT HAVE TAKEN COLLATES IN THE PASSPORT CONTROL OF THE BARCELONA-EL PRAT AIRPORT? [[File number 180/00269]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u19	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go ahead, Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u20	Thank you, President. Mr. Rajoy, a curiosity. Do you have anything to say to the thousands of people who have done, do and will probably do queues of hours in the passport control of El Prat airport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u22	Yes, Mr. Rufián, I have something to tell you. The origin of the situation you are interested in stems from a measure taken by the European Union in the fight against terrorism, which is reasonable, Mr Rufián; it is enough to recall the unfortunate terrorist attacks that have taken place very close to our home in the United Kingdom, Belgium, France and Germany. The action taken by the European Union is to increase border inspections of all persons benefiting from the Community scheme. I insist, it's about preserving people's safety, something I think is very reasonable. This, I insist, is a European measure which is very commendable and which creates problems. What we are working on now is to solve those problems that are happening today at many airports in the European Union, we are all coordinated and we are taking steps to make the trouble minimal. I hope that within a few days you will no longer have to ask me this same question because there is no case or bother for the people. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u24	The truth is that I hope so too, Mr Rajoy, Mr President. In the meantime, some idea. From the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra we ask - in fact, we demand - that you tell your number two, Mr Nieto - alias 'the friend of the brothers Ignacio Dalton', and also your number one of Interior, Mr Zoido - alias 'we are not fools, we would hide as before' - that all the policemen who have in demonstrations, in evictions, in operations Catalonia, in patriotic brigades and, above all, giving sticks and balls in El Tarajal send them to the control of passports from the airport of El Prat, in Barcelona. [[Rumors]] And above all, let them stop being ridiculous in passport control, at least until in the future Catalan Republic we take control of the airport if your people so want. Thank you very much and good morning. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u25	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u26	Mr Rufián, you can ask for things and you can make approaches without disrespecting people, because besides it costs nothing, you would look very well and, perhaps, you would even look like a nice gentleman. [[Applauds]] But, things are the way they are. I'm going to try to answer it. I've already told you before that we're facing a security problem. What we are doing is this: Increase the number of agents to deal with the growing number of passengers, which are many; increase the number of computer equipment and the number of helpers to help passengers, and we will also follow up weekly so that things will go well in the future. Now, put to say things, they could do the same also in the metro of Barcelona, so as not to blame it always for what happens to that indeterminate legal concept that you call Madrid. Because on the subway there's a strike, there's crowds, there's Andean problems and there's also mossos d'Esquadra doing exactly what you say the National Police does, which they don't. Therefore, Mr Rufián, I am going to take care of my duties; take care of yours and do not make politics simply an exercise against Madrid, because you have many powers to exercise and do much harm to the citizens, see the Barcelona metro. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Carlota MERCHÁN MESON, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS AND COOPERATION: WILL THE GOVERNMENT COMPLETE THE COMMITMENTS ACQUIRED IN THE MATTER OF REASENTATION AND REUBICATION OF REFUGEES? [[File number 180/00263]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u27	Questions now to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation. Question by Carlota Merchán Mesón, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u28	Thank you, President. Minister, 133 are the days before the end of the two-year period in which the Government pledged to host 17,337 refugees from Syria. There are 133 days left to accommodate 16,033 people. The European Commission has issued hard conclusions and recommendations on the resettlement and relocation of Spain. What do you think of those conclusions, Minister? What measures will the Commission take to establish the monthly quota requested by us? How is the negotiations with the Community of Sant'Egidio going? I hope you don't act like the bad student, the one who doesn't take responsibility and is justified by looking at those who suspend more than him, because we're there, in the group of students who suspend. In Brussels Parliament approved the socialist initiative to create a system for sanctioning those who fail to comply with reception commitments, and yesterday the Commissioner for Immigration and the Interior announced that he is also considering opening up sanctioning dossiers for non-compliance. I ask you: will the Government comply with the host agreements and commitments? The answer is simple: yes or no. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u29	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u30	Thank you, President. Your Honor, this government is doing everything in its power to meet these requirements, and it is doing so out of solidarity with stakeholders, with our partners, through moral conviction and because our society demands it. As for the degree of compliance, I will tell you that it is difficult to comply with the commitment of 17 000 places when, according to the Commission's report yesterday, 12 400 people must be relocated to Greece and just over 4000 to Italy. In any case, I will tell you - and not to rely on the fact that there are others worse than us - that with regard to relocation we have 1500 procedures in progress, of which 886 have arrived, and with regard to resettlement there are 960 procedures in progress and we have shown willingness to resettle 542 more people, that is, more than the 1449 to which we had committed ourselves. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Merchán, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u32	After the European Council, the President of the Government asked in this House for strategic patience, intelligence and generosity. Your Government is not acting intelligently, let alone generously, and as far as strategic patience is concerned, I do not know if it was being asked by refugees to wait for them to give up reception. NGOs, trade unions, municipalities, autonomous communities, the citizens of this country do not want to hear any more excuses; they want them to come now. This year marks the twenty-fifth anniversary of the reception of refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then we were a poorer country, with unemployment figures very similar to today, with little experience in reception and yet we did, because this country is a solidarity country, sensitive to the pain of others. What happened so that then we could do it and not today? I will tell you: then there was a solidarity and sensitive government that served the citizenry; there was a socialist government. Minister, you have been in office for six months, long enough to know what is expected of your ministry, and you must decide what legacy you want to leave this government, and of course I do not think of a worse one than that this country is sanctioned for not welcoming those fleeing from war and terror. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u33	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u34	Thank you, President. Your Honor, this government is aware of the wishes of the Spanish people for solidarity, but what it cannot ask of me is that we ignore the rules of the European Union. We must respect the requirements and procedures of the European Union, which, by the way, has drawn our attention to trying to accommodate humanitarian requests from people who wanted to come specifically to Spain. We can't choose; we have to wait for them to tell us who we can bring. In the meantime, we are working to ensure that those who come have the best reception and social inclusion conditions. That is why we are working together with other administrations, autonomous communities, municipalities, but also with the private sector. I like to recognize that companies like Telefónica are working to develop talents between refugee youth and others as well as Vips, Alsa or FCC to improve their employability or Ikea to improve their reception conditions. With all of them we are working and hope to be able to work with the opposition and other administrations to make it a reality that refugees coming to Spain feel like they are in their country of origin. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u35	Thank you. - OF THE DEPUTY DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO Parliamentary Group, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS AND COOPERATION: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK [[EAJ-PNV]] DO I HAVE AGREED IN THE SIXTH AND SEVENTH ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS OF LAW 25/2014 OF 27 NOVEMBER, OF TREATMENTS AND OTHER INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS? [[File number 180/00251]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u36	Question also addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo of the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u37	Good morning, Minister. In November 2014, the Treaty and Other International Agreements Act was adopted and, at the request of our group, two additional provisions, sixth and seventh, concerning the Basque foral regime and the Navarro foral regime were introduced. According to them, the competent institutions of the Basque Country and Navarra will participate in the Spanish delegation negotiating an international treaty with historical rights as much if its general update has been carried out by the statute of autonomy as other cases whose unique update has been by the ordinary legislator within the framework of the first additional provision of the Constitution and, where appropriate, the statute of autonomy. That is why I ask you, how does the Government intend to comply with these additional provisions?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u38	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u39	Thank you very much, President. Mr Esteban, as you have said, Law 25/2014 aims to adapt treaty regulation to the reality of Spain as an autonomous state and as a member of the European Union. It is a sign of the Government's willingness to address these realities and incorporate them into our international practice on the basis of our relationship of mutual loyalty with the Autonomous Communities. On the other hand, it is the fulfilment of the mandate of the Constitution that protects and respects the historical rights of the outlying territories. Therefore, the implementation of this mandate will be done in accordance with the Constitution and Title V of the law itself and, as you have also mentioned, the sixth and seventh provisions which grant the Basque Country and Navarre the right to participate in the delegations, but, of course, also taking into account the mandate of article 149 of the Constitution, according to which the Government is responsible for the direction of the negotiations and the final decision on them. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u41	Mr Minister, no one is discussing the direction of the negotiations, but you will agree with the President when he says that the legal order is about to be fulfilled. What cannot become both additional provisions is empty clauses, which have been so far. In some ways it will be necessary to implement a mechanism that can simply be the manifestation or information to both Governments of which international treaties the Government of the State is going to address, which, according to my information, has not so far happened. Such a mechanism should become routine because, if not, it is very difficult for them to claim a justified interest on the basis of these provisions to be part of that delegation. There are some very obvious subjects, I will not be exhaustive, but I will tell you some that they are even marked by the statutes themselves: education, security, economic-fiscal, transport, culture and language and everything about the local area. It is clear to me that this falls within the first additional provision plus other references that are throughout and wide the legal system of the State and that have been introduced into the development of the first additional provision in different laws. The important thing is to establish a mechanism, the important thing is that they do not really remain on wet paper and, to do so, it is necessary that information flows from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to these governments so that they can see their interest fulfilled. That is why I ask you that what has not been done so far can be done at an early date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u42	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u43	Mr Esteban, I take note of your request, which seems perfectly reasonable to me. It is true that so far there has not been much time to develop and implement the law, which was passed at the end of 2014 and, since then, we have had two general elections and one government in office. But that said, the Government's will is to comply with it, and we will develop it, as provided for in the third final provision of the legislation itself, to specify which institutions should be competent, the historical rights invoked or the division of jurisdiction. In any case, regardless of whether this development takes more or less, these normative aspects do not prevent us from developing in practice the best cooperation, with the respect and mutual loyalty that we have. That's how we'll do it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u44	Thank you very much. - OF JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT MARÍA CHIQUILLO BARBER, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMULATING THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS AND COOPERATION: WHAT VALUATION DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE FIRST FULL OF THE COOPERATION COUNCIL FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF 2017? [[File number 180/00265]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u45	He also asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, Mr José María Chiquillo Barber, of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, allow me to say my first words to highlight and recognize the efforts and work being made by Spanish actors in cooperation in all geographical areas of the world, and the Government of Spain to remain active in all international forums where the major debates around our global commitment, the 2030 Agenda, actively participating within the European Union, the United Nations, the G20, the DAC, with proposals and commitments in the United Nations Development Programme, Unicef, UN Women, Acnur, FAO, World Food Programme, WHO, etc., and with a constructive spirit in a multilateral manner, with four priorities: concentration, effectiveness and efficiency, responsibility and participation. Active was our participation in the Open Working Group that gave rise to the 2030 Agenda, adopted in September 2015, defending the inclusion of the fight against inequalities or the promotion of human rights, the fight against poverty or gender equality, health and education, refugees and migrants, as priorities of the international agenda from Spain. The People's Parliamentary Group is committed to a participatory model in which Parliament acts as the central axis of a constructive debate, because cooperation is a matter of State, where the participation of all actors, public and private, who make Spanish cooperation possible. Today, in the process of developing the V Plan Director as an instrument for planning and implementing the 2030 Agenda and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals, which must permeate our cooperation action, I ask you: what assessment does the Government of Spain make of the first plenary of the 2017 Development Cooperation Council. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u47	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u48	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Kid, thank you very much. Indeed, the Government's policy of cooperation is, in a decisive way, geared, inter alia, to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. The Government made a very positive assessment of the first plenary session of the Development Cooperation Council. It was the first high-level contact between our ministry and the members of the council, and it took place in a very cordial atmosphere that allowed us to share the broad lines of our policy of international cooperation for this legislature. It also served to report on the activities carried out by the Ministry's cooperation team at this new stage and our participation in multilateral forums, such as the informal meeting of European Union development ministers, the G20 development working group or the United Nations meeting on the status of women. In addition, the meeting provided an affirmative response to the request of the Cooperation Council to increase the time frame for the preparation of the Fifth Master Plan for Cooperation. With this, there will be more time for multidisciplinary reflection and for this plan to be as inclusive and participatory as possible. Of course, at this stage of consultations we have the contributions of the General Administration of the State and the members of the Council, of the autonomous communities, of civil society and of the members of Parliament who wish to do so, whom I encourage to do so. This extension of the deadline for drawing up the Master Plan implies that the Fourth Plan will have to be extended, and we have agreed, so that there is no vacuum in our cooperation policy. Anyway, it is our intention to have approved the V Master Plan by the end of this year. It is also our intention, as we have transferred to the Council, that this plan should be fully accompanied by the 2030 Agenda and its sustainable development goals, to which we are fully committed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u49	Thank you very much. - OF MR. CARLOS SAHUQUILLO GARCIA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: DOES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE CONSIDER THAT THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE IS TAKEN IN ACCORDANCE WITH HIS RESPONSIBILITIES TO THE FRONT OF THE MINISTRY? [[File number 180/00260]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u50	Questions to the Minister for Justice. Question by Luis Carlos Sahuquillo García, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u51	Madam President. Reprobated Minister Catalá, the question on the agenda is whether you are adequately assuming your responsibilities at the head of the ministry. The answer was given yesterday by this Parliament: there were 207 Members who asked you to leave. You had the opportunity to defend yourself yesterday during the debate on the motion and did not have the gallantness to do so. So, now, after a few hours and sure you've consulted with the pillow, do you plan to resign as Minister of Justice? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u52	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u53	Thank you, President. Good morning. Your Honor, I think you have been confused about yesterday afternoon's debate in this House. I was there because I thought it was my responsibility, while some Socialist Members and Ministers, who were rejected in their day, were not and did not listen to the debate, as I had to do yesterday afternoon. [[Applauds]] I did not have to intervene because the spokesman for the Group of the European People's Party has already done very well, which I think has made things very clear. In any case, Your Honor, I have exercised my responsibilities since the commitment to the service of the general interest, with the commitment to the citizens, and I have been doing so for more than thirty years as a public servant that I am. With which, modestly, and within my limited capabilities, I believe that I am exercising my responsibilities with responsibility. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u54	Mr. Sahuquillo, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u55	Mr Rejected Minister, you should have devoted yourself to working for regulatory, technological and organisational reforms of justice in order to achieve better effective protection for citizens. That's what he had to do as a minister and not blatantly manipulate Spanish justice, acting as an advocate for alleged criminals involved in cases of corruption. He has devoted himself exclusively to plotting a perfect plan to cover the corruption of his party by jeopardizing the basic rules of the rule of law, attacking the credibility and independence of justice and thereby creating an environment of disaffection for the Spanish people with regard to State institutions, which will be very difficult to repair. But do you believe your arguments, those you are continually using in parliamentary office? He accuses, among other things, the rest of the parliamentary groups that we lack the truth, that we manipulate, that we harm the institutions and even dare to say that we have no proof. You can't stay a minute longer on the blue bench, as my partner told you yesterday, because your problem is that all of Spain knows it, because that's what the corrupts themselves say to those we've heard clearly in recordings that trusted Rafa to fix it. Mr Catalá, since yesterday you are carrying a reprobate sign, three-fifths of Parliament has asked you to cease. And you know why he's still a minister? Because today Rajoy is useful, as in his day were Mato, Wert, Gallardón or Fernández Díaz. It is useful to him because he has him as a defense lawyer in the corruption cases that affect the People's Party. Do not be afraid to attack the Socialist Party and think that in our country there are thousands of judges and prosecutors who give themselves up every day to guarantee our rule of law, and they do not deserve you to remain at the head of the ministry for one more minute. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u56	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u57	Thank you, President. Mr Sahuquillo, defeated Member, I believe that we all exercise our responsibilities and you, after ten years, have lost half of the popular support in the province for which you come, although I am sure that you also exercise with responsibility your status as representative of a province and as Member I believe we all have responsibilities, all of us. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] [[applause.-Continue the rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u58	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u59	I believe that you also have full responsibility for choosing the questions and issues that are being discussed in this House, and that you certainly do not want to talk about economic growth, job creation or pension guarantee. They are not interested in talking about this, surely because they can give very few lessons in view of how you left Spain in 2011. But let us talk about these matters and let us talk about justice and transparency. I think there are already ten questions in this House, three appearances in the Commission, two interpellations and I will continue to give all the explanations you ask of me; another thing is that they are not worth anything because you do not care about the truth at all; you are only interested in fallacy, creating noise, generating smoke, saying that things that do not happen happen. Where are the evidence, Your Honor, do you have it? Trust them and demonstrate what they are accusing so gravely not to me anymore, but to the Attorney General of the State and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor. I am sure that this parliamentary group and this Government will remain committed, as they have done so far, to the defence of the rule of law, to the fight against corruption, as their group did not when the Criminal Code or the Criminal Procedure Act were passed. You did not support it - and you were able to do so - and now you do not make a single proposal to improve the fight against corruption. Let's see if next Sunday we get out of these and we can...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u60	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA MERCÈ PEREA I CONILLAS, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHEN ARE THE GOVERNMENT'S INJURY INJURY GOVERNMENT'S INJURY ON THE WORK OF TAXES CONCERNING CORRUPTION? [[File number 180/00261]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u61	Question by María Mercè Perea i Conillas, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, Mr reproved Minister, you are but do not listen or answer. Do not hide behind members of the Socialist Party. Answer what this House is telling you. [[Applauds]] Yesterday, Minister, he was single-handedly rejected, only 207 Members, and I repeat that because you do not listen. Due to serious, very serious events, what has never been experienced in this House, you were reprimanded for your prosecutors, for the prosecutors of the People's Party, and you did not even change your mind. [[The Rumors Continue]] He was reprobated for giving specially protected information to a friend of his, a party mate, Pedro Antonio Sánchez, and here you don't even change. He was reprobated for the appointment of José Manuel Maza as the state's attorney general, questioned by everyone from the outset, and you nothing. Just to arrive that attorney general, prevented the imputation of Mr. Pedro Antonio Sánchez, and you nothing, not a single gesture. Minister, yesterday I was looking at you all the time, and not a single gesture. I ask you, Mr Rebate Minister, when are the government's interference in the work of prosecutors fighting corruption going to cease? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u63	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u64	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I recommend that you read your speech and try not to improvise it because, well, you said: People's Party prosecutors! You are convinced that there are prosecutors of the People's Party, just as you know that I gave information to an accused and you also know that the Attorney General of the State prevented the imputation of Don Pedro Antonio Sánchez. You know a lot of things that nobody else knows but you, so you see. It would be good for them to be accredited and for them to do so, as the President of the Government quite rightly said before, apart from parliamentary immunity, because you are accusing public servants of very serious prevarication. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u65	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u66	In any case, your honor, interference, none. [[Applauds]] Government interference in the prosecution, none. And it's not that I say it - I imagine my word will be worth very little to you -, say the prosecutors' associations, Your Honor, says the Fiscal Council, which is the representative body of prosecutors, says the state attorney general. Inferences, none, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u67	Mrs. Perea i Conillas.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u68	With all due respect, you must not hear well. Look, this is the statement from the Progressive Union of Prosecutors about the prosecution, about the interference you're making. [[Show a writing]] And I say you because an appointment of yours, after all, is the one that ends up putting high office in the Attorney General's Office as well as in the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Yesterday we were listening to astonishments - I say astonishments - the interview that was made in the SER chain to Mr. Maza, who, without any problem or discomfort, did not object or comment on his reprobation; he found it as something normal, like going on the job. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council. He recognized it and even came to justify it. Read it. [[Show other writing]] I'll give you the interview so you can have it. There's no waste. He came to say that it was normal and that if Mr. Moix knew him, for quieter all; even the former minister, Eduardo Zaplana, said so... [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u69	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Quiet. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. [[The Rumors Continue]] Please, I beg your silence. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u70	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the State Attorney General has already appeared twice in this House's Committee on Justice in the short four months leading the institution. You have the opportunity and you have had to ask her, to listen to her clarifications. Once again, you don't care much about what any fellow can bring, because you are only installed in the fallacies and lies that are repeated as a mantra. I don't know if they realize it. I fully understand the political debate, the political criticism, the attempt to undermine the political adversary, but, be careful, Your Honor, with the institutions, because you are not talking badly about a minister, a prosecutor general, you are talking about the Attorney General's Office, where there are 2,500 people working that every day. Do you know anyone?, have you spoken to any prosecutor and asked if you have any interference in your work?, have you done that exercise? Maybe he doesn't know anyone and doesn't have the ability to speak directly to professionals. [[Mrs Perea i Conillas shows from the seat the Minister of Justice, Catalá Polo, a letter]] I talk to the professionals every day: with the judges, with the prosecutors, with the lawyers, with the notaries, and I know what your perception of what is happening and what approach you are taking. In any case, I am sure that the Socialist Party is eager to combat corruption, surely in Andalusia. In Andalusia, where there are 600 investigated, 4300 million euros under suspicion; you have more than 370 investigated socialists. I am therefore sure that you are the first to be interested in combating corruption. Whenever you want, when the noise passes, when the smoke passes, after Sunday, we will continue to work, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u71	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF IGNASSI CANDELA SERNA, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHAT CRITERIA HAS THE GOVERNMENT BASED ON TO APPROVE THE REAL INVESTMENTS PROVIDED FOR IN THE DRAFT GENERAL BUDGET LAW OF THE STATE FOR 2017? [[File number 180/00250]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u72	Question to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mr Ignasi Candela Serna, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u73	Mr. Montoro, given that there is up to three and a half times the difference between the community that receives the most and the community that receives the least, on what criteria has your ministry been based to forecast the actual investments in the State General Budgets for 2017?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u74	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Candela, the criteria are those that are allowing Spain to emerge from the economic crisis, that we are leading growth in the developed world, that we are the creators of employment - almost two jobs created in Europe do so in Spain -, that the Valencian Community is at the head of that economic growth and job creation and that we prioritize social spending. That is really what the State's General Budgets are for; by the way, they are also to enable autonomous funding that you, as a member of a political group, the Joint Parliamentary Group in this House, but of a political group that has government responsibility in the Valencian Community, should support budgets that mobilize for the Valencian Community 851.4 million euros. Therefore, it makes no sense, as Mr Baldoví has already done, to come up here to complain about how little the State's budgets invest when you are voting against what would be a provision that would allow, that would enable you to finance those investments that you consider priority, above all, to devote those resources to education, health and social protection. Thank you, Madam President. [[The rumors continue.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u76	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Candela Serna, I would like to tell you, please, to remain silent. The control session is another part of the plenary, not an exceptional part of the plenary. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u77	Yes, precisely because we are government we know what our powers are, and I will tell you what the basis should be for establishing budgets. The Constitution says so. Article 31.2 of the Constitution: Public expenditure shall ensure an equitable allocation of public resources. Article 40 of the Constitution: The public authorities shall promote favourable conditions for a more equitable distribution of regional income. Article 16(10) of the Organic Law on the Financing of Autonomous Communities, Mr Montoro: The investments made directly by the State will be inspired by the principle of solidarity. And you, precisely what you have broken is the principle of solidarity, because even though you know that the Valencian country has a per capita income of 11% lower, even though you know that we are the last in autonomous financing, you punish us with the least public investment of the state. But it is not only our problem, it is also the same for Andalusia and the Balearic Islands. Mr Montoro, when solidarity is broken what is done is to open the way to the politics of friends and the marketing of rights, and this is what you do. The consequence of all this, of trading with people's bread and people's future, is a matter of great concern to you: you are doing what you are doing is breaking Spain, because Spain is broken by the General Budgets of the State. In a serious and fair country, the action of the public authorities would be aimed at reducing the differences between regions and also between classes. That is the definition of a good Government. Mr Montoro, a good government manages and acts politically, votes what people vote and comes from wherever it comes from. That's what we do in Valencia. That is why we say that you should learn from what is a good government like ours. Mr Montoro, we ask you to correct these budgets during the parliamentary process, because if they are approved as they are, they also end up in the Constitutional Court. - I'm done. I applaud what the People's Party has done in the Valencian Parliament by voting against these budgets. Don't treat them anymore and let them be free.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u78	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Candela, there are political groups that if they don't cry not mom, to understand us. [[Rumors]] You make the policy of victimism; you are victims: victims of the system, of injustice, of social fracture. That's what you're provoking. [[Mr. Candela Serna shows a writing]] These budgets increase investment, investment in the Valencian Community on the investment executed - because people care about what has been done - and they schedule an increase of more than 35%, and they also do so in the infrastructures that are key. Because fortunately there are other infrastructures that have already been made; we are one of the first countries in the world to have infrastructure, but you seem to have come to this House to cry. Well, nothing, I lend you a package of clinex every time you intervene in the rostrum or in your seat, Your Honor. [[Rumors.-Mr. Baldoví Roda: A lot of face!]] But they are not for that, ladies and gentlemen; they are to exercise the responsibility of government. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u80	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTONIO HURTAD ZURERA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: HOW JUSTIFYING TO KEEP THE SECRETARY OF STATE OF SAFETY? [[File number 180/00262]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u81	Questions now addressed to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Antonio Hurtado Zurera, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u82	Thank you, President. Minister, if it is shown that Mr Nieto, Secretary of State for Security, lied at the appearance here, will he cease immediately? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u83	Quiet. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u84	Mr Hurtado, Mr Nieto has given sufficient explanations since the first day and at his own request. Therefore, it does not start with assumptions that are not going to be given. My trust in Mr. Nieto is intact. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u85	Mr. Hurtado.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u86	Minister, you have no confidence in Mr Nieto. [[Rumors]] In fact, you don't tell me you wouldn't be willing to stop it. [[Mr. Tarno Blanco: Yes, you've said it before.]] I'm going to give you two data that are demonstrative that you lied. First, he said he did not know Mr Ignacio González. Mr Nieto was on a trip to Buenos Aires on the occasion of Madrid's presentation for the 2020 Olympic Games in September 2013, and I have witnesses to that meeting. In addition, he was for four years as vice president of the Arab House sharing the vice-presidency. Secondly, Mr Nieto said in that appearance that Pablo González' visit was not only an scheduled visit, but also a recorded one. Well, according to published information, the Ministry of the Interior has no record of that visit at all. Minister, the two statements on which the Secretary of State for Security is supported and maintained are not supported. First of all, it seems he didn't know anything about Operation Lezo. Everyone knew it through the media, and the Secretary of State for Security did not know it. Secondly, it seems that in this conversation with Pablo González he speaks nothing more than about markets, about market security. When Pablo González leaves, he immediately calls his wife to ask her: How did the conversation go? - because I was very uneasy. And he says to him: don't worry, very interesting; we'll talk, but not on the phone. Minister, the statements of the prosecutors themselves have been subsequent and have said that this has been a very serious meeting. The Secretariat of State is currently hostage to a corrupt plot and you are maintaining it. Corruption is being covered up by you, and it smells like smoke at the base of the People's Party. Therefore, cease Mr. Nieto... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u87	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u88	Mr Hurtado, I am surprised by your statements. I don't know what you're in, what's going to happen in the future, but you're not like you just presented here today. I will name you the qualities of Mr Nieto, who knows you: he is a working person, he is a professionally competent person, he is a person who has rigor, he is a serious person, he is a responsible person, he is a person who is committed to the public service, he is a person who has earned the respect so that I can trust him. He is identified with the project of this Government and, therefore, I can assure him that the management he is doing at the head of the Secretariat of State for Security is very good; it is a complex and complicated management. I will tell you more: you just quoted what the prosecutors say, I will quote literally, with all due respect, the following: the prosecutor of the Lezo case has clarified that they did not want to charge in any way any offence to the Secretary of State for Security, Mr Nieto, by mentioning it in the writing of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Chief Anti-Corruption Prosecutor has publicly said that Mr Nieto has nothing to do with the issue. The State Attorney General has also publicly apologized to Mr Nieto for a flawed wording that cast a halo of suspicion unjustly, Mr Hurtado. I think that the PSOE should apologize for these disqualifications, even insults, and also false accusations that it is pouring on a person who is a public servant and whom you well know. I think it is good enough that I have already made allusions to the defence of the rule of law, to the division of powers. It was not known that Mr Ignacio González and Mr Pablo González were under investigation in a case such as the Lezo case. All I can tell you is that my confidence in Mr Nieto is intact and that is why it will continue to be held at the head of the Secretariat of State for Security. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GALVAN ERJON, OF THE CUSTOMS CUSTOMS PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, CAN WE IN COMMUNITY MAY IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: IS THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDERING COMPATIBILITY OF THE IMPUTATION OF THE DANCE CONCEPTION WITH ITS ACTIVITY AS DELEGATED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF THE COMMUNITY OF MADRID? [[File number 180/00256]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u89	Question also addressed to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Íñigo Errejón Galván, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Minister for the Interior, do you consider Mrs Concepción Dancausa's imputation of the Mercamadrid case to be compatible with her activity and her stay as a government delegate in the Madrid Community?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u91	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u92	Mr Errejón, in the state where the case is, the Government considers that the role as delegate of the Government of Dona Concepción Dancausa is compatible with the situation of an investigator which it has - I insist - at the present time where the investigation is located.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Errejón.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u94	Thank you, Minister. I am grateful that you responded so clearly. Here we have different opinions. Firstly, we believe that Mrs Dancausa should never have been promoted to a government delegate. In a private company someone who runs an entity that loses in a scam 11 million euros is not promoted, is fired; yet you promoted it to government delegate. She's been charged today. I cite two examples in which government delegates or sub-delegates, who have been accused, resigned or have been terminated: October 2012, Antonio Juaneda, government sub-delegate in Menorca, resigns on the same day as his indictment. May 2015, Serafín Castellano, government delegate in the Valencian Community does not resign, but you cease him. In this case, I have not heard you say anything and, to Mrs Dancausa, I have heard you insult justice. My question is: in this case why not. I can only think of two options: in this case, not because Mrs Dancausa may know too much about the laudazal in which you have converted the Community of Madrid or in this case you will not cease her or suggest that she resigns simply and plainly - I say this to you with all calmness but with regret - because you have lost your respect for the Spaniards. For a long time I have had the feeling that you come here on Wednesdays and laugh at the whole of us giving explanations that you don't even believe. So it happens that all the groups in the House, except their own, reprimand the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General and the Chief Prosecutor Anticorruption and nothing happens; so it happens that we know that their number two meets with Pablo González, brother of Ignacio González - today both in Soto del Real - and nothing happens; so it happens that we learn that his predecessor, Mr Fernández Díaz, met with Mr Rodrigo Rato - condemned - and nothing happens either. I begin to suspect that you have a political objective, and I tell you very clearly: to defeat the Spanish morally, to make us get used to corruption, as if it were an evil endemic to our country. Well, I think we're still safe from getting used to it because there are institutions that do things differently. Not everyone does the same, not everyone uses institutions as trenches to protect friends. Do you know what the example is? In the case of Mercamadrid, the Madrid City Council makes the accounts clear and makes them available to the courts, while others continue to protect the alleged culprits. Spain is not going to resign itself to corruption or its Government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u95	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u96	Well, you've been quiet, haven't you? You said everything you had to say and you stayed very calm. [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u97	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u98	For I am very concerned about the intervention you have made because you have just dynamized the rule of law and, of course, eliminated the presumption of innocence. [[Rumors]] You, perhaps for your youth, ignore the effort we have made by all Spaniards to achieve a rule of law and above all to build together a division of powers since the 1978 Constitution. [[Rumors]] Allow me a thought. A simple denunciation and admission to the proceedings certainly do not make anyone guilty of the facts that could have been reported. What's the point, Mr. Errejón, of an instruction first and a trial later? Very simple, so that the presumption of innocence can be safeguarded, a presumption of innocence that you have, that we all have and that also has Mrs Dancausa. From what you have said here, this looked more like a public mockery more like the Middle Ages or Salem's trials. But we're going to be rigorous and I'm going to give you two thoughts alone, Mr. Errejón. Legally, the person who can disqualify a person from public office is exclusively a judge and after a trial; politically, at least, he/she will have to wait to see if this complaint that has been admitted continues and is opened oral trial after an investigation. In that case, the Government will no doubt act. As the investigations have been conducted and the oral trial opened or not, the decisions will be taken. But I tell you one thing, you got what you wanted. You wanted here a scenario to start making your diffusion, your dissemination in Madrid because you are already campaigning for Madrid; that's what you wanted. For you, wanting that, have dynamized the rule of law and charged yourself with the presumption of innocence. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] - OF THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURAL AND SPORT: WHY THE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE MINISTER OF CULTURE DID NOT ASSIST TO THE MEETING OF THE COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE OF THE CONSORTION OF THE PAIL OF PAST FRIDAY MAY 12? [[File number 180/00268]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u99	Question addressed to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport by Mr Don Francesc Xavier Domènech Sampere of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Minister not yet reprobated, why did the representatives of the Ministry of Culture not attend the meeting on 12 May of the Palau de la Música Consortium? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u101	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I hope you're not right in your predictions, Mr. Domènech. In March 2012 and following the recommendations of the legal advisers of the foundation, it was unanimously decided to personate itself as a particular charge against Mr. Millet and Mr. Montull, as perpetrators of the continued offence of misappropriation. Later, during the oral trial, an agreement of the prosecutor's office with both defendants made it possible to reduce penalties in exchange for their statements to result in an imputation to the former Convergence. From there, the City Council of Barcelona asked the patrons to extend the charge to Convergence for the crime of influence trafficking. The foundation requested two legal reports, one from Palau's lawyers and one from an independent criminalist. What do Palau's lawyers say? That it would not be admissible to change the punitive claims at this stage of the proceedings on grounds of defencelessness, that civil action finds more impediments to their modification because the law itself strongly prevents the variation of the demand after the beginning of the trial and because eventual adherence to the prosecutor's position does not serve the purposes of reparation pursued by Palau de la Música. And the same goes for the professor of criminal law Juan Cordoba Roda. Therefore, the position of the Ministry of Culture is clear, it is to follow the report of the legal services. That's what we were on and that's what we're on. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Domènech, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u104	He has not answered the question; it often happens to me with you. I asked him why they didn't come. What I have heard now is the defence by the People's Party Government of the position of the Generalitat de Catalunya at that meeting, which is surprising. That is to say, the People's Party Government and the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia currently have exactly the same position as to why Palau de la Música does not have to act, to go to court to recover the money that was squandered from it, that is, the 3% case, which affects a particular party, to Convergence. I did not think that you would defend exactly the same criterion in this regard. Besides, he didn't answer me because the question was why you didn't go. If you wanted to defend this, you could have defended it perfectly, but you weren't there to do it. Two things happened that Friday, May 12, the first thing is that you announced that you were going to bring to Congress the decree of the greenhouse and that you had the support of Convergence to approve it. The next thing that happened that Friday is that you did not go to the meeting of the Palau Music Consortium to defend your position and with that absence made it effective that Palau did not go against Convergence. Of that, I don't have evidence but normally one can establish a cause-effect relationship between one thing and the other. And we know perfectly well that you knew what the content of the meeting was - as you have shown - you knew that you could delegate votes and you didn't, and we also know that you, being the party with the most causes of corruption in all of Europe, are no longer just dealing with your own but also dealing with those of others, and above all you are dealing with corruption. I mean, I change this for you. That has a name, it's called a pact of silence, it's called omertà. And with his answer - which he has not answered -, with his non-assistance, it makes clearer the vision that this is a pact of silence to hide cases of corruption together. What do we know? We know that you have contributed to the failure of the Palau de la Música in the case of 3% to recover what was looted; we know that, in exchange for that help, you seem to be helping you to precarious the conditions of the workers. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] We all know that.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u105	Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u106	Thank you. In the first intervention you have made pythonise about my future reproof and now you have fertile imagination. In life will give you many satisfactions the fertile imagination but here you have no reason at all. I have not read him the considerations of the Generality of Catalonia, I have read to him what the lawyers say. What the Ministry of Culture says is that we must follow what the lawyers say; it is a purely technical question, Mr Domènech - I insist, purely technical - in which we are interested in being punished and the money recovered. And you know why we didn't go? We didn't go, first, because our position was clear. Secondly, because the agenda dealt only with debate and not with conclusions. And, third, because we knew that this is a war between the City of Barcelona and the Generality and, within the Generality, between PDeCAT and Esquerra Republicana. What do we want? The general interests, getting the money back, we don't want to get into political battles that you're in. We care about the general interests, Your Honor, not the future autonomous elections in Catalonia. That is why we have not gone, for not playing the game to you, ladies and gentlemen. So, there it is. Have better luck with your fertile imagination on other occasions. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. IONE BELARRA URTEAGA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND DEPORT: DOES YOUR GOVERNMENT, WITH THE IMPROVED, IMPROVED AND IMPRESSED IMPLOYMENT OF THE LOSCE, CONDITIONS TO PROMOTE THE FOLLOWING COURSE, RECOGNIZE IN SEPTEMBER OR FINALLY SHOULD I REPEAT COURSE? [[File number 180/00255]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u107	Question by Mrs Ione Belarra Urteaga, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u108	Good morning, Minister. After the improvised and overrun application that your Lomce government has made, do you think they're going to pass the course, will they have to go to September or will they finally repeat? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u109	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u110	Good morning, Mrs. Ione. Not hit, not improvised, not unexpected. This Government is in a position to provide stability to an educational system in need of it, through dialogue and consensus, to which this minister - who is a friend of difficult causes - also wants to join his group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs. Belarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u112	Don Íñigo, I would say that you too suffer from a kind of amnesia syndrome that greatly affects the other members of the People's Party. I'm gonna help you make some memory. You, in July 2016, passed a royal decree of revalidation when you had a government in office that was in office for anything but what was of interest to you. I already had at that time all the opposition of the House for the implementation of the Lomce, which had been paralysed in this House in the XI Legislature, when the paralysing of the timetable for implementation was approved. In September and October he was given two strikes from the educational community, a general educational strike and a student strike. It was then, when you found yourself having the streets full and the classrooms empty, when you finally turned back and approved that royal decree-law to finally paralyze the revalids. What was that supposed to mean? That the kids started the course thinking they had resuscitations and ended up thinking they didn't or didn't. This has led them to chain a series of plugs, one after the other, which have led both families and teachers as well as especially ESO's fourth-year students to fall into a defenselessness in which they do not yet know, in mid-May, how they are going to approve, how they are going to get the title, whether they are going to be able or not to go to high school. They have converted final stage tests into diagnostic tests that are neither diagnostic nor serve for anything because they are different in each autonomous community, the data they collect are samples or censuses, according to what each territory considers, and they also apply when students are already going to leave the center, which, as I say, does not serve that diagnosis at all. I think you guys actually already knew very well what you were doing. This application of invalids harms the student who is in a more disadvantaged situation, and you already knew that too when you applied Lomce, because from the beginning you have had a single political objective in education, which is to put an end to public education. That's what they say, and that's what they say. I will tell you one thing very clearly: from my group we will always support those who turn their backs on the public education system - because it is they, whom you are going to make that three years of interims cannot continue working - so that they can continue working. We... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u113	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u114	Your Honor, you have a very selective memory. Since I came to the ministry I have tried to seek consensus and agreement, precisely to guarantee the educational system peace and security. I have met with the Autonomous Communities on more than forty occasions, I have had four sectoral conferences, all the royal decrees that this Government has drafted in compliance with the Lomce have been made with consensus, with the agreement of the Autonomous Communities, and the last one, to which you have referred, the important decree-law of late November, was not due to the pressures of a general strike where, frankly, there was hardly anyone. You know that the so-called general strike punctured; you know, as we all know and the educational community knows. That's not why. It was because the system had to be assured peace and security while we achieved the goal we all wanted in this House, which is the social and political pact for education. That's what we all want, that's what we're working on. That is why the President of the Government, at the investiture session, proposed that the academic effects of the invalids, of the evaluations be suspended. That's what there was, not another story. That is why the 2016-2017 course is taking place with absolute normality. When some friends of yours have tried to call a general strike now in March, what happened? That no one has gone, that they have had to deconvoke until the demonstrations. That's the reality. Why? Because what people want is security, stability and the pact. That's what we're on. I would tell you that when this Spanish education system is getting good results - we are seeing PISA, we are seeing Timss, we are seeing the reduction in school dropout, which is very serious, from 30% to 18.6%; they are good figures - we must be happy. We must be happy when we do things right, which is not done only by the Government, which is the educational community. I'm not tired of saying that it's the teachers who are at the center of the system. Let us not denigrate it, let us not speak ill of it because to speak ill of the Spanish educational system is to speak ill of ourselves, it is to speak ill of the future of the Spaniards. I encourage you to be positive... [[Applauds]] - DON JUAN CARLOS GIRAUTA VIDAL, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER FOR EDUCATION, CULTURE AND DEPORT: HOW DOES THE EXECUTIVE ACT TO GUARANTEE THE ACADEMIC RIGOR OF TEXT BOOKS AND AVOID THE DISTORTION OF THE HISTORY AND INSTITUTIONAL ORGANIZATION OF THE STATE? [[File number 180/00257]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u115	Question by Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u116	Thank you, President. What does the Government intend to do to ensure the academic rigour of history books and to avoid distortions in them, as well as with regard to the institutional organization of the State?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u117	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u118	It is very important to ensure the academic rigour of textbooks and to avoid any distortion in the teaching of history common to all Spaniards, as well as the institutional organization of the State. Recently, Your Honor - and your question is very pertinent because it goes that way - within the subcommittee for the State, social and political pact for education, promoted by this Government and the rest of the House's groups, there have been statements by the president of the National Association of Book Publishers and Teaching Material regarding recommendations - he even spoke of pressures - which this collective has to face in adjusting the contents of texts to autonomous decrees. This Government shares some of the reflections made at that appearance. The competitive distribution between the State and the autonomous communities, enshrined in our Constitution, cannot lead to the absurdity of producing texts of mathematics, biology, and geography for each autonomous community. The current legal system as set out in the fourth additional provision of the law of 2006, amended in 2013, is, first, that there is no prior censorship system for textbooks or curricular subjects and, secondly, that all textbooks must comply with requirements such as scientific rigour and respect for constitutional values and principles. And it establishes one last thing: that the competence to supervise textbooks is of the autonomous communities in the territorial area in which they are competent. Therefore, the role of the Ministry of Education is a subsidiary function; it is for the Autonomous Communities to ensure this rigour and for the Ministry of Education to ensure that the Autonomous Communities comply with this rigour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Girauta, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u120	It seems to me that here no one is watching, neither one nor the other. In response to the denunciation of pressure from editorial members of the Association of Publishers of Books and Teaching Material, I will not quote the specific names of these publishers, but I will quote the report of the AMES union where, in a series of well-known editorial textbooks, the contents set out in Royal Decree 126/2014 are reduced, something which I believe you and your Government should ensure. There is a lack of scientific and terminological rigour in the media knowledge textbooks in Catalonia, at 5th and 6th grade. Catalonia is presented as a separate entity from the rest of Spain and in many cases confronted; a public administration and a hierarchy of laws are presented that does not correspond to reality. You say that they have to ensure that the government has a subsidiary task. Look, let this subsidiarity be implemented as soon as possible; I urge you to comply with the law and the basic curriculum. I have here examples of textbooks for children of 5th and 6th grade where it is said: King Philip IV of Castella i de Catalunya-Aragó... That is, there was a King Philip IV who was of Castile and Catalonia-Aragon, an entity that we studied before the nationalist penetration we did not know. Systematically, we speak of the Catalan-Aragonese confederation to refer to the Crown of Aragon; we sow - and the AMES union says - discord, we highlight what differentiates us and we hide what unites us. A person of the Socialist Party recently asked what a nation is; a nation is a plot of affections, Minister, and those affections are being diluted. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u121	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u122	Thank you, Mr. Girauta. Indeed, the ministry's work is carried out by the ministry; it has to be activated through a complaint and what the ministry does in this case is to call the High Inspectorate. The High Inspectorate sends a request to the relevant educational community, establishes a dialogue between them and, if there is no agreement, goes to the courts. This is the procedure that is currently established in the LOE, as modified by Lomce. I am willing to change it, to look for another that is more effective, and for that I believe that right now we have a useful instrument, that subcommission for the social and political state pact for education can allow us to look for a procedure that does what you say needs to be done and that I share with you, and it is a nation, that daily plebiscite of which you speak... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u123	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN MIRIAM ALCONCHEL GONZAGA, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE EFFECTS THAT THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 16/2012 IN THE NATIONAL HEALTH SYSTEM, AFTER FIVE YEARS OF HIS EFFECTS? [[File number 180/00264]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u124	Questions to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. He asked first of all Mrs Miriam Alconchel Gonzaga of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u125	Thank you, President. How does the Government assess the impact of Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 on the National Health System after five years of operation?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u126	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u127	Thank you, President. Mrs Alconchel, we welcome them both from the point of view of cohesion and quality in the assistance to citizens and from the point of view of the maintenance and sustainability of the National Health System. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u128	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alconchel.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u129	Minister, it has been five years since Minister Ana Mato ended the universality, fairness and accessibility of our public health system. You have not evaluated for five years because you would fall for the speech, but you have done so by social entities and international bodies, from the United Nations to the Council of Europe, including the Ombudsman, and you warn them that you are violating the right to the protection of people's health. Young people without unemployment benefit who leave this country for more than 90 days to study or seek employment have been excluded from the system, people have been excluded from the system because they do not have a link with Social Security, foreigners, and they have imposed an unfair pharmaceutical co-op. Five years of cruel reform have been completed, which has caused suffering: chronic patients without periodic controls; treatment interruptions; pregnant women without medical control during pregnancy; children who have been denied primary care; transplanted persons who have to pay for treatment after the operation, and may continue and continue with documented and reported cases by independent agencies. Are you really going to go on with the health tourism excuse to justify all this? The system is no longer sustainable - that is false - but it is more unjust. Stop throwing the ball at the autonomous communities because health cannot depend on where you are born or where you live, which generates inequalities and involves playing with health. Stop burdening professionals with the responsibility of ensuring the health care you deny. Minister, the budgets for 2017 are reaffirmed in those policies. You talk a lot about the health pact in your speech. It shows that it has real will; repeal the royal decree, as we have asked on numerous occasions and ask it again in the amendments submitted to the budgets; lift the veto on the proposal of socialist law to return universality to the system; return to social and political dialogue to recover a universal health that treats all citizens equally, and end this unjust and ineffective reform already. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u130	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u131	Thank you, President. Mrs Alconchel, do not patrimonialize the National Health System; the National Health System is the heritage of all and we have all contributed to its consolidation and improvement. It is one of the best rated public health systems in Eurostat and Spanish patients express this in the latest health barometers. The success of our National Health System is based on professionals, who are the main asset of the national system itself, and on patient citizens - because we are all patients - who are our raison d'être. When we arrived at the Government in 2011, we guaranteed universal assistance to the unemployed, their children and their families; we solved the problem of students who were going to study abroad, and we gave health care to professionals, such as lawyers, architects or engineers. And we also find many unpaid bills in the drawers that really affected the sustainability of the National Health System. I will give you two important data: EUR 16 billion in invoices and debts with healthcare providers, which put the system at risk but also many jobs. By the way, bills we now pay in less than a hundred days when you paid them in more than five hundred days. And, second important fact, our reforms have allowed us to save more than €68 billion to reinvest them just in the National Health System itself; for example, by controlling health tourism, which meant a debt of €1 billion; we have created a centralized purchasing platform; we have increased the use of generic medicines, and we have reduced the accumulation of unnecessary medicines in households. With these savings we have been able to incorporate 217 therapeutic innovations for our Spanish citizens, improving cancer treatments or, for example, the Hepatitis C Plan. Our health reforms have made it possible to reverse the situation. And I'm going to ask you for more. I will ask you to support the General Budgets of the State. They are budgets that contribute €53 billion to the autonomous communities to invest them in what is most concerned the citizens, which, of course, is health. Secondly, these General State Budgets provide for the most important OPE in the history of democracy, offering 129,700 seats. I look forward to your support. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF MRS CARMEN NAVARRO LACOBA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY: WHAT ARE THE MAIN ACTIVITIES THAT THE GOVERNMENT WANTS TO IMPLEMENT BY THE PROJECT OF BUDGETS OF THE AREA OF SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY FOR THE YEAR 2017? [[File number 180/000267]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u132	She also asked the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality, Ms Carmen Navarro Lacoba, of the Popular Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, good morning. The People's Parliamentary Group is aware of the State General Budgets Bill for 2017 that the Government has brought to the House. We are fully aware of the Government's efforts, with President Rajoy at the head, to ensure that these budgets have been the result of consensus and agreement not only with some of the political forces, but also with civil society. These General State Budgets for 2017 leave the recovery behind; they are budgets of consolidation and economic growth, aimed at people and to meet the needs of people, and above all so that no one will be left behind in that recovery. The People's Parliamentary Group therefore welcomes the Government's commitment not only to job creation, which we are convinced is the best social policy, but also to the welfare society. Hence these general budgets are social spending, EUR 307 billion for social policies, a record figure in our history of democracy, to pay our pensions, our health, our education, our social services. Seven out of ten euros are intended to improve the quality of life of Spaniards. This morning, Minister, this parliamentary group wants to celebrate that the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality is the star ministry in the general budgets for 2017, that it is Mariano Rajoy's favorite because it takes care of our elders, our families, our children, our dependents, the most vulnerable, and that it has been placed at the head of the growth, highlighting from the other ministries with an increase of 8% in its budget regarding the year 2016, 2184 million euros from the total budget of the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, the ministry that rises the most of all. And the amount allocated to the area of social services and equality occupies more than 80% of this ministry, is 1807 million euros, with a 9 % increase over the 2016 budgets. Minister, what are the main actions of the Government to push forward the budget proposal in the area of social services and equality for 2017? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u134	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u135	Thank you, President. Your Honor, first of all I would like to condemn the death of the last victim of gender-based violence, who was confirmed yesterday. Indeed, Your Honor, this is the budget of the people, especially those who need it most, because we do not want to leave anyone behind and we want to continue building a country, a Spain in which we all have a chance, in which we all have equal opportunities. It is a growth budget, a job creation budget and one of the most social budgets of recent times, investing, if we count what is transferred to the autonomous communities, 70% in people and families. Our ministry's budget in the social area has increased by more than 9%, an increase aimed at families, the protection of our children and our elderly to meet their needs. Families are our raison d'être, so we are going to invest 32% more than the previous year to help families reach the end of the month, for the educational reinforcement of minors, for the payment of day care, for out-of-school activities and for any need of families. We also want this budget to value the experience, roots and values that the elderly represent in our families but also in society. We therefore want to support their personal autonomy and improve their quality of life. For this reason, the budget reinforces the system of care for dependency with an increase of 122 million euros. We also want this budget to be used to further strengthen the fight against gender-based violence. Gender-based violence is the expression of the most cruel inequality that exists against and fight against women. It is the priority of society as a whole and of this Government as well. It is a cross-cutting policy of the Government, and as far as our ministry is concerned, we have increased the departure for combating gender-based violence by 10%. We must continue to work to ensure that equality of women and men, reconciliation and co-responsibility are part of Spain's DNA and that the next generations do not know about inequality, especially gender-based violence. In these budgets there are not only numbers, there are families who will receive help to pay the rent of their home, children who will be able to go to a nursery while their parents go to work, there are women who will be able to open a business, older people who will receive help at home and our commitment to the fight against gender violence. There are many people, many families and many helpers. That is why I call for the support of the People's Parliamentary Group for the general state budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL WOMEN OF IRENE MARIA MONTERO GIL, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT WORKS OF SUPPORT WILL THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT CONCERNING HER COMPARENCE IN THE CASE GÜRTEL JUDGMENT? [[File number 180/00254]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u136	Questions now addressed to the Vice-President of the Government, Minister of the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations. Question by Mrs Irene María Montero Gil, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u137	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, what support work will the Vice-President do to the President of the Government in relation to her appearance at the Gürtel trial? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u138	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u139	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Mariano Rajoy will, like any other citizen, comply with his obligation to cooperate with justice as a witness for events outside of his work as President of the Government. Therefore, if you ask me about the vice-president's support work, I tell you - and I tell you very much - that none. That, if you are so concerned about the support work that I am going to do, causes us all to worry about the harassment work that you will be preparing and those who are very used to us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u140	Mrs. Montero.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u141	Thank you, President. Vice-President, as we are in a control session, I am only going to ask you three questions and I suppose you will imagine that the intention is to answer them and to answer them to all the Spaniards. The first is whether you can explain to me what are the reasons for the agenda, security and - I quote literally - public order that would justify the request made by your party for Mr. Mariano Rajoy to appear in plasma before the National Court. If we listen to what his parliamentary spokesman, Mr Hernando, says that the pope of Rome could go because he knows the same thing as Mr Mariano Rajoy, perhaps there would be no problem in that it was in person. [[Mr Hernando Fraile pronounces words that are not perceived]] I remind you that today it publishes a media outlet, El Confidencial, that of the money Mr. Granados made from another plot, the Púnica plot, Mariano Rajoy and all his party paid for the 2008 general elections and came doped to those elections. [[Mr Hernando Fraile pronounces words that are not perceived]] I insist, I simply ask you to explain to us in a little more detail what those reasons would make the President of the Government have to appear for plasma, because I believe that if not, many people may think that what they are trying to do is to avoid the photo of the President of the Government of this country going to the National Court to testify for the illegal financing, corruption and looting of his party. The second question is whether or not you have any record of the existence of that tape that Mr Ignacio González and Mr Zaplana are talking about, in which an entrepreneur would recognize payments in B to people of his party, including Mariano Rajoy himself, and whether at some point you or someone of his government have been blackmailed with that tape. The last question is whether the relationship of political trust with which you and Mr Mauricio Casals, deputy to the Presidency of Atresmedia, have led you to know very well the privileged information of the Lezo case, well - and with particular interest - who is the judge friend who would be behind some crooks to corrupt of your party. Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u142	Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u143	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Montero, there are two types of parliamentary groups in this House: those who respect judicial processes and specialists, such as yours, in parallel trials; those who trust in justice and those who demand that justice commune with its ideal to trust it and respect it; and those who take action against corruption and those who have made corruption their only political strategy now that Spain faces recovery. But most important: those who take action and those who only have speech. How many of the people you have quoted are still active in politics and are sitting in this rostrum? None. On the other hand, from your parliamentary group we have to bear that every day we are taught some who accumulate very uneducating behaviors, Mrs Montero - yes, do not look at me with that strange face, that you will understand me quickly -: employers who do not discharge their workers in Social Security, speculators with official protective housing, politicians who do not step on the university that pays them, advisers who charge from foreign governments who are at the worst in the rankings of democracy and who do not tax the Public Finance and, worse, the harassment to which Mr Bódalo, he and his confluences, constantly subject us, in Jaén's prison; that is where they have the people of Podemos. [[Mrs. Montero Gil: You're in prison]] Mrs. Montero, so many lessons in ethics and so little practice, do you know what they do? That you do not even create your own speeches because 82% of your activists have clearly told you about Mr. Iglesias' motion of censure, and in a language, the only one you understand, that will refine it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u144	We shall now proceed to address the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà, on the assessment of the so-called Operation Dialogue with Catalan institutions and civil society for the sake of a better understanding. For your defence, Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u145	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, when Empress Catherine the Great left the capital to visit the vast plains of the Russian empire, the commander-in-chief of the imperial army, the almighty Grigory Potemkin, organized routes with beautiful artificial stone cardboard villages at the bottom of the landscape to show such an idyllic reality as radically false and non-existent. This phony practice has been called potemkinism. Madam Vice-President, six months ago you were tasked with a dialogue operation with the Catalan institutions and society with the aim of improving and recomposing the bad relations degraded after years of accumulation of non-compliances, unexecuted budgets, unfulfilled sentences, unrespected competences, unrevised funding systems in time, resources against the status voted by the people preceded by campaigns to collect signatures. In short, ladies and gentlemen, pure potemkinism, pure parallel reality, pure cardboard stone of evaporated promises and inconsistent realities that millions of Catalans are no longer willing to endure. But above all and in the first place, for its inability to recognize the existence of the Catalan nation. For you, we are diversity. Without this recognition, their dialogue is nothing more than a pre-democratic monologue of those who do not assume that Spain can never be unless it is purely plurinational and self-determination by its parties. We exist and have the right not to be recognized as enemies of anyone, but, as long as you do not recognize the existence of the plural, diverse, but persevering nation in time, dialogue cannot be either sincere or effective. His idea of Spain has become old, his political culture and his explanatory power have been exhausted in the eyes of the vast majority of Catalan citizens. It's changing everything around it and all you can think about is: because the Constitution says so. The strict application of the legislation in force within its governmental meaning is not part of the European Union's conventional stamp culture. In any legal dialogue, problems are jointly studied and solutions are negotiated. That is where you will find the political culture of the Catalan people and where the problem will end, sooner or later, even without you, because you are not there. You do not recognize yourselves either, because we are eight out of ten citizens of Catalonia who want to vote in a referendum; eight out of ten is a broad majority to which it is advisable not to practice the political myopia or the melancholic resistance of past times. The main argument of the Government is that it cannot dialogue about something that is illegal, the referendum. Nor has there been a reasoned display of motives, pulling for elevation. Since some constitutional parents accepted the legality, viability and political opportunity of the referendum, there should be a possibility of dialogue on this point. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, you may have been surprised that you have not focused the beginning of this inquiry on a flood of figures and data - we already have them well-known and well-known in various parliamentary debates in this House and in the Senate -. We are discussing the democratic principle in the Europe of the twenty-first century. They have persisted in judicializing a reality that has its way out in political dialogue. On November 9, 2014, 2,345,000 people went to vote, more than all those who went to vote in the last general elections in Aragon, Extremadura, Cantabria, Navarra, La Rioja, Ceuta and Melilla together. Can you imagine that none of the representatives of the mentioned communities had anything to say, nothing to express? Don't you see the relevance of what you have in front of you? Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, the ballot box in democracy is never a problem and must never be a taboo. Operation Dialogue over the past six months has been a messy announcement of investments and budget forecasts. They have frankly wrongly coordinated it: one week they announced a rain of millions and the next week they presented the budgets that involve a drop of 32 million euros in investment compared to the previous year. Why should we have confidence in these figures when last year the level of implementation of the budget in Catalonia was 66.7%? I mean, every three years you get zero in real investment; pure potemkinism, lots of stone cardboard. The operation has consisted of presenting a new plan of trains of proximity, rolling stock, copied from the Plan 2008-2015, of which only 13 % was executed at the moment and they will have to be very creative to explain in Europe that the Mediterranean corridor, with funds from the European Union, has a central side - plateau - and a coast, and that between Vandellós and Tarragona we continue with one route while they allocate this year 2500 million in AVE along and wide of the Hispanic geography. Madam Vice-President, at the end of last year, with Member Francesc Homs - in the second round I will make more detailed reference to him - you held a dialogue, through an inquiry, on the forty-six points that the President of the Generalitat, Mr Puigdemont, transferred to President Rajoy. And you said: Of the forty-six we won't discuss the referendum, but let's talk about the other forty-five points. Well, six months later, the Government has not opened the file and has not even discussed the other forty-five points, and it has to be a Constitutional Court ruling - the 9/2017 - that reminds you of the complete list of constitutional justice judgments that you yourselves fail to comply with on a face-to-face basis. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, next Monday the President of the Generalitat will put forward at a conference in Madrid a final proposal for a referendum on self-determination in Catalonia agreed with the Government of Spain. A proposal based on the principle of 'do not impose, do not prevent'. Not to impose, not to prevent, seems very reasonable in democratic societies; that so reasonable did David Cameron and Alex Salmond, for example. The Catalan Government is prepared to discuss questions or questions, date, a sort of law of clarity, the delegation of competence, which is perfectly provided for in the Constitution. The Catalan Government has shown plenty of signs of sitting at the dialogue table waiting for the other party to appear. We believe that the Government of Spain has not sat down, it has simply been limited to listing investments by allowing time to run out. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not state policy, this is to misdiagnose Catalonia's political and social reality. To be more precise, they have not limited themselves to the enumeration of investments that are never fulfilled, but have shown their brown face in the judicial and terribly disturbing way in the dirty war of the low funds of the patriotic police, which do not allow it to be thoroughly investigated in this Parliament through a constituted commission of inquiry but which does not allow the appearance of the key police commanders to get to the bottom of the issue. Next week they should take it seriously and as rulers willing to find solutions. I invite you, Madam Vice-President, very sincerely, to attend the conference of President Puigdemont next Monday, it seems to be that in the City Hall of Madrid because the Senate Bureau did not allow a president of Catalonia to deliver a conference in the Chamber of Territorial Representation, something that invites reflection on the construction of the so-called State of Autonomy entered the twenty-first century. I invite you to participate and listen to the proposal under the principle of 'do not impose, do not prevent'. I already know that the appetizer was the order of the attorney general to file a complaint with the governació councillor, Meritxell Borràs, for having started the process for the purchase of ballot boxes exactly with the same wording of the contest with which they bought ballot boxes for the autonomous elections in Andalusia. And so also the deputy García-Margallo, yesterday morning in an interview on a Catalan television, called the use of the word and the reason for the conference next Monday day 22 by President Puigdemont as an intellectual challenge in the heart of Madrid, with the warning that this conference will shake the waters. An intellectual challenge in the heart of Madrid that will shake the waters. This is the diagnosis of Congressman García-Margallo. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the crux of the matter. For some, coming to Madrid to talk about democratic reason and dialogue in the center of the capital is to enter a territory that cannot be desecrated. Therefore, Madrid, as a concept of political power and not referring to the good people of the city, has ceased to be in the hearts and hopes of the great majority of Catalans. Madam Vice-President - and this concludes, Madam President - it has been six months running an Operation Dialogue that has not led to a good understanding with the Catalan Government, which has not led to the forty-five points that you said from this rostrum in November that you were willing to negotiate. We are and are faced with a political problem that requires a political solution, not to let the time pass. Madam Vice-President, I hope you will surprise us by radically changing your point of view and offering a political solution. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u146	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, I now give the floor to the Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Xuclà, with this interpellation your lordship stands himself as an arbitrator measurer of the will of dialogue between the Government and the Government of Catalonia, comes a part to exercise as an arbitrator altogether, and basically focuses on the referendum of self-determination the objective and purpose they pursue with that dialogue. In the dialectic that Mr Xuclà has used today, the Government will be a dialoguer if it agrees to authorize the referendum, and as a demonstration that Mr Xuclà and his group are, in the face of the intolerance of the Executive, has granted us today, graciously, to be able to talk about the date, the consultation and the percentages. For all of us to understand each other, I'm going to use a simile that I think is enlightening. What Mr. Xuclà has done today is as much as imposing marriage on a lady, but let him think about the menu of fashion and dress, you will not believe people who have to marry a despot. The least for your honor is that this referendum on self-determination is unconstitutional. What do the constitutions serve and what are they for in the world? Nor does it care that the Government or any power of the State, including this Congress of Deputies, has the capacity to authorize it. Nor does it matter that the Spaniards are deprived of what is primarily theirs in a democracy that wants to remain so: the ability to express their opinions on how Spain is and how it is organised. Without the will of the Spanish, Spain cannot cease to be Spain, as it could not cease to be a rule of law or a parliamentary monarchy. What you want, however, is for the Government to authorize a party to decide for all the Spaniards and for the others to agree to accept that result and the decision in which they have not intervened, which affects them but in which they have no right to comment. Curious way to understand democracy. That is why, perhaps, Mr Xuclà, Mr Puigdemont did not accept a debate in the parliamentary seat, in the Senate Committee on Autonomous Communities, so that the rest of the representatives of the autonomous communities and all the senators could have an opinion on what they consider to be Spain. It is just that, Mr Xuclà, the Senate is not an institution that rents its seats, as the City of Madrid lets it do for the modest price of 3000 euros for someone to speak without replicating what our country is; it is an institution that represents all the Spaniards, also the Catalans, also elected by democratic elections. You wanted to come here to talk about democracy, and I am going to talk to you essentially in my speech on democracy. The question I ask you is this: Could Mr Puigdemont and the company raise their claim in a democratic way in Spain? Of course they could, they just don't care. In democracy one can be independent - one can be independent -; it is called ideological freedom. Each can have his or her ideas and defend them under two premises: respect democratic rules and respect the opinions and rights of all others. And I'm going to prove to him that he doesn't comply with any of them. If Mr Puigdemont wants Catalonia to be an independent state, the Catalan Parliament can put it forward and approve it by constitutional procedures, bring it to this House, debate it and, if accepted, put the Spanish to the vote. This is how things have been done in Spain since we decided in 1978 that we would cease to be a dictatorship and that we would rule by democratic methods. The problem lies, Your Honor, in the fact that the Generalitat and the parties that support it have long slipped through the slippery slope of identifying democracy with its political program and Catalonia with the beings who live in the palace of Sant Jaume. And now I'll get into it. [[Applauds]] Do you want us to talk about democracy? For I will illustrate to this House how the institutions of the Generalitat practice democracy. A democratic regime requires a Parliament, like this one, to respect the rule of law and its own rules of operation. Under the presidency of Mrs Forcadell, the rights of the opposition in the Catalonian Parliament are subject to independence and are constantly violated. And I'm not saying it, the courts have said it. The Bureau's admission to office of the proposal to initiate the political process of independence violated the House's Rules of Procedure and, more seriously, violated the rights of the other parliamentary groups, as did the establishment of joint presentations for the drafting of disconnection laws. I'm going to talk about disconnection laws. Those laws, which, in your opinion, are the key to the future of Catalonia, but which write more secretly than if it were an initiatory rite. You say that it is to be surprising - and I say to you that you will be more surprised to yourselves than to strangers - but you want to approve them without debate and without opposition, as four of the six parliamentary groups in the Catalan Parliament have denounced. You will think: Why? What right do you think everyone else has to think about what Catalonia is? In a democratic organization that is valued one respects at least one's own institutions. Those of Spain do not serve them, nor do their courts, but the institutions of self-government of Catalonia do not serve you as a parameter of the legality of their behaviors. You dishearten when you are not interested in the opinions of the Council of State Guarantees that warns of the illegality of your approaches, you missed it when you determined in the 2015 budgets that the state structures were unconstitutional and contrary to the statute, and you have done so again when in 2017 you warned about the departure to cover the referendum. What I say to you applies also to the lawyers themselves of the Parliament of Catalonia. Do you imagine that in this House we would ignore what the Secretary General and the lawyers of Congress say? The Secretary General of Parliament warned in writing that the provision of the budgets was null and void and that voting on it was to disobey the Constitutional Court, and the Speaker of Parliament forced the vote despite the protests of the groups. How did it all work out? With a spurious parliamentary precedent: to have adopted two amendments incompatible with each other. A Republican Squerra Senator of Catalonia - a disqualified judge, for more signs - boasted that the Government of the Generalitat was illegally collecting tax data from Catalans, and the only explanation of the Generalitat for a possible such serious violation of the right to privacy of Catalans has been to veto the tasks of the Commission of Inquiry - you come to talk about the rest of the commissions of inquiry -, breaking the petitions of all groups, including those of the Socialist Party of Catalonia and those of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. I have talked about the rights of parliamentarians, legitimate representatives also of the Catalan people, but I could talk about the threats of sanctions to public employees, those of Mr Llach supported by Mr Puigdemont; the concern made public by the associations of judges for interference in the exercise of their functions by the independence sector, or the pressures on the Mossos, who have demanded that their political neutrality be respected in the face of constant pressures not to align with the independence process. And it is that the Generalitat has long since ruled not for all Catalans but only for those who commune with their postulates; it requires all others to bend at their will. For this reason, attacks on civil organizations contrary to independence are common, and no more or less oral than the Councillor of Institutional Relations, who has accused Catalan civil society of phalangist, Mr Xuclà, phalangist. And the non-independence political parties have to endure in Catalonia squabbles and attacks on our headquarters by their preferred partners in deciding what Catalonia is, which are the radicals of the CUP. And with that history, do you come here to talk about democracy? Start respecting those in Catalonia who don't think like you. Start treating Catalonia as it is: a democracy within another democracy, which is Spain. [[Applauds]] This is what the government does, working for all Catalans. Because, Mr Xuclà, we too are the Catalan government and its legitimate representatives, elected by them in democratic elections. Our dialogue is constant and broad with all the Catalan public administrations, with the rich Catalan association structure, by the way much more open and cooperative than your Government. I wish they'd look a little more like the Catalans! Our presence in Catalonia is increasingly constant and fruitful, and you say to me: with us, no. Undoubtedly. I went to discuss the forty-five points for which you asked Mr Junqueras, Mr Puigdemont blew up the visit, and when I arrived he told me that we were only going to deal with one, the referendum, which I just talked about and I hope you will answer me. But this government, Your Honor, has a wide dialogue with Catalan society and I will give you some data. Let's talk when Spain experienced a national emergency and you were unable to access the markets and we all supported the Catalan public services: 68 billion financing and savings - which is funding in vein that is not returned - of 16 billion in interest. And today, when the national priority, including that of the Catalans - and you review their surveys - remains, despite the mantra of independence, employment. And in Catalonia and Spain as a whole, jobs are created. Thanks to these budgets that you are not going to support, Catalonia will receive 1 billion more funding - then complain about what is being provided to others. And infrastructure has been compromised in Catalonia. Here, Mr. Xuclà, you screwed up. He says why don't we invest in the Mediterranean Corridor and we'll open AVE over there. I remind you that all the Catalan provinces are connected by AVE and in the third city of Spain, which is Bilbao, we are still working on it. Or is it that the Spaniards do not deserve to go in AVE to Bilbao and yes to Tarragona? I think all the places we can get to. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, the government will support the Mediterranean Games, Barcelona's candidacy as the seat of the European Medicines Agency, Sant Jordi's day as the intangible heritage of humanity. This has you on the nerves, as politely as it seems, in the rostrum you even become lacking, Mr. Xuclà. That's what bothers you, losing the exclusivity of the representation of Catalans. Mr Xuclà, if you come up to this rostrum to talk about democracy, I hope that from now on at least we will not have to endure the democratic outrage that our fellow Members of four parliamentary groups in the Parliament of Catalonia suffer. You apply the story. Thank you very much. [[The Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality, Montserrat Montserrat: Bravo, brave!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u148	Thank you. Mr. Xuclà.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u149	Thank you very much, Madam President. With a constructive, democratic tone, with patience but with the observation that the Government of Spain through its vice-president does not want to move and wants to remain installed in the myopia, which is in the Journal of Sessions this week, which is in the Journal of Sessions the following week when you will hear a last proposal from the Government of the Generalitat to find an agreement. Look, Madam Vice-President, I have not come to stand as the representative of the Catalans, but something must be represented when the absolute majority of the Members elected in the last elections on 26 June - present in this Chamber - are in favour of holding a referendum as a political solution to the current situation in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Take note of the results of your party in the Parliament of Catalonia, in the general elections and in the municipal world. Do you know where Pontons is? Pontons is the only municipality in Catalonia governed by the People's Party that represents 0.1% of Catalonia's municipalities, with all due respect. Something we must represent, among other things, the absolute majority of the Parliament of Catalonia. When 2.4 million citizens are expressed in the ballot box on 9 November 2014 and their answer is no, no and no, do you think that will solve the problem? The week after the disqualification of Mr. Francesc Homs, a journalist asked me on television: After that disqualification, is the process over? I am convinced that the journalist asked me in very good faith and I also said to him in all good faith: Well, no. You have seen that, in thirty-nine years of parliamentary life, in this Chamber only two Members have been stripped of their status. One, for State crimes accredited by the Supreme Court and the other, for facilitating citizen participation and putting the ballot boxes in the 9 November trial. Do you believe, Madam Vice President, that that's going to stop you from complaining, that it's going to stop you from having dirty war? Do you think this facilitates dialogue? Do you think this improves the relationship conditions in the dialogue operation that you were commissioned to do? Madam Vice-President, I quote: 'Cataluña will be what the Catalans want. Catalonia will be what the Catalans want.' Philip VI. I very much agree with this statement and in the 21st century we should give democratic solutions through the ballot boxes to a problem that you are not going to stop with more disputes and more courts. I'm going to quote another classic: 'You can talk about everything without violence. You can talk about everything without violence.' José María Aznar. Madam Vice-President, I would like everything, not the forty-five points, to be able to speak very quietly about the forty-six points. With whom? With the legitimate representatives of the people of Catalonia democratically elected in elections with a very high and never known level of participation, the elections of September 27, 2015, and that you from this rostrum have dared to qualify as 'the beings who live in the Palau de la Generalitat'. Madam Vice-President, a little respect for 'the democratically elected rulers by an absolute majority of the people of Catalonia', and not 'the beings who live in the Palau de la Generalitat'. [[Applauds]] You know perfectly well that it is possible, within the constitutional framework, to hold a referendum by delegation of powers. Here came three commissioners of the Catalan Parliament to ask for this delegation of competences and the answer was no. The answer was not from a political culture that, as I said in my first speech, is retreating and decaying. You do not understand the balanced and democratic logic of not imposing and not im-pe-dir. Forty-six undialogued points, the ordinary contentious-administrative justice giving reason to the Generalitat on competition issues and burdening the Government of the State, and a relevant ruling of the Constitutional Court of 19 January this year listing the long list of judgments of the Constitutional Court that the Government fails to comply with. I insist, fail, misguided. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are, at the door of the final proposal of the Government of the Generalitat. The party I represent, the Democratic Party, has made great efforts during these years to contribute to the evolution of democratic culture in Spain. I'm done with this, Madam President. The result has been, no, no and no. This is not stopped by the courts, it is not for their final career prize or their status as state counsel; this is solved by the ballot boxes in a democratic way. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u150	Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u151	Madam President, Mr Xuclà, I have at least made two things clear from this inquiry. First of all, may you acknowledge in this House that you are not coming to speak on behalf of all the Catalans but only of your parliamentary group; therefore, you can raise what you think is appropriate but please ask you not to continue to arrogate the will of the whole of Catalonia. And, secondly, that you return here to place the document of forty-five, plus one point, because we are not the ones who like to work in vain and I tell you that you are late, because we are already executing some of the points. To work for Catalonia, Mr Xuclà, this government does not have to be aware of what the priorities of your government are. You said that you have won the elections by an absolute majority. I understand that you are already joining as part of your fully institutionalized team the radical lords of the CUP. I think that is the main conclusion of this debate: you have absolute majority because the CUP is an essential and structural part of that majority with which you want to build Catalonia; radicality and anti-system. Now I understand why, Mr Xuclà, a few months ago you were sitting where Mr Villegas is sitting and why your group used to be the majority in Catalonia and why things were going differently for you, simply because you had a little more personality than coming here to say that you are an absolute majority with the Members of the UPC. Finally, Mr Xuclà, you come here with great social support. He says we won the election. I remind you that a member of that absolute majority that you assume, said to them: we have not won the plebiscite, we cannot go further in the declaration. That has been said by a member of his absolute majority. Your social support, Mr. Xuclà, is dwindling. I don't know the decorations you put on, with whom you go down and with whom you talk, but what I detect, and my colleagues what they notice, that I also have companions in Catalonia, is tired. That is why, according to its own surveys, those of the Generalitat, the aspiration of independence never exceeded 50%, but now it does not reach 40%. That is why, because you do not respect democracy or constitutional regimes, you do not find international support that is worth it and you meet abroad with whom you could probably do it in Sant Cugat del Vallès. Furthermore, Mr Xuclà, you have a division in the government that makes it very difficult to speak. The substantial problem in moving forward in any dialogue is not having a decision-making interlocutor. Mr. Rajoy is on our side. For your part, Mr Xuclà, who is the future interlocutor on the future of Catalonia? This government works for stability, this government works for serenity, this government defends the democracy that the Spanish gave in 1978, and I hope that - now will come debates with which you threaten us to the rest of the Members - when you go up to the rostrum of Parliament or preside over it and none of the rights of others, you will remember the debate that you and I had in this rostrum. I think we can keep talking about that a lot. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) THE HEALTH AND ACHIEVEMENT OF INTEGRATED ACTIVITY ON THE GALLENGES. [[File number 172/000044]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u152	We move on to the urgent inquiry of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea to promote sanitation and perform an integral action on Galician rivers. For your defence, Mr. Gómez-Kingdom Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u153	Good morning, Madam President. [[Start your intervention in Galician]] It is very difficult to talk about the sea and the laughs as we knew them. Today, unfortunately, we come to talk to you about the sea and the ries that have left their policies over the past thirty years, of more than thirty years of conservative governments of the People's Party in Galicia. What's wrong with our laughs and our shores? The climatic, biological and geographical complexity of our ries have allowed them to be the essential economic engine of our country; a maritime, productive, natural and tourist engine. It is difficult to calculate the extent of the economic impact on them or how many jobs in our country depend on them. In any case, what we have very clearly is that, in addition to a fundamental part of our identity and our territory, they are our way of life. Faced with such a huge treasure it seems of common sense, lords of the People's Party, to keep them and protect them from all those who want to harm them, from all evils. However, we have already told you that what has happened to all of them is that they have been sold to the worst bidder. Let's start with the most obvious. With Mr Aznar's Land Liberalization Act, the privatization of public space and the lack of protection of natural space were hand in hand. The People's Party's bets have been a non-urban and territorial model predatory of the coast and our quality of life, but also predatory of legality. Of course, non-politicals, as you well know, are also a way of doing politics. In short, the lack of a model means that some have taken advantage, and continue to take advantage, of what is of everyone and everyone, of the common good, which in this case - which we have come to talk about - are our laughs. Make no mistake, it is not that ours is a land without law, it is that the law is not completely universal under the governments of the People's Party nor is it exactly the same for all and for all. As the Count of Romanones, President of this House also said in times of turnism that they like so much: 'For enemies, the law; for friends, the favor'. Their Governments are, in many ways, guilty of the situation of our ries. Firstly, because of the action against the common good by liberalising and privatizing the natural space. Secondly, by public inaction, by not acting when they were obliged to do so. Thirdly, by making a blind eye to the public goods, by failing to ensure that the law is, as I said before, the same for all and for all. And, fourth and last, to collaborate with the criminals, with those under their protection who built businesses that destroyed our laughter day by day. In short, in too many cases coastal pollution collected waste from its democratic pollution. Let's get to the facts. There are three main problems with regard to irrigation pollution. Firstly, the defective treatment of waste water. Secondly, the uncontrolled dumping of industrial waste and, thirdly, the lack of sanitation of the ria. Let us see which of these are the responsibility of their Governments. An important part of the pollution comes from unpurified discharges from the urban cores and rivers that flow into the rivers. Council Directive 91/271 on urban waste water treatment provided that urban agglomerations with more than 15 000 inhabitants should have a system for collecting and treating waste water by the end of 2000. On 14 April 2011, the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled that the Spanish authorities were systematically violating European Union legislation in this regard. [[The Lord]] Well, in 2017, that is, twenty-six years after the adoption of the directive, seventeen years after the deadline for compliance with European Union rules and six years after the first judgment, we remain the same in Galicia, with three urban agglomerations not complying with European rules: Santiago, Vigo and Riveira. In November last year we learned that the European Commission was referring the case back to the Court of Justice, proposing a fine of €46.5 million, in addition to a daily fine of €171,000. On 26 November last year this Member at this parliamentary seat asked you, Mrs Tejerina, what measures the Government intended to take to remedy this situation. And I ask you again today what steps the Government has taken since then to resolve this situation, and do not tell me about specific actions. I ask you clearly whether you can answer me when the clean-up of urban waste water in Galicia is finally going to be solved. Let us now go to industrial pollution and what we call the hotbeds of mass destruction of the coast. Two tearing and graphic examples: ENCE and Reganosa. The ENCE factory has destroyed the ria of Pontevedra and its surroundings. It should have left that site by now, but, yes, we would have to comply with the law for that, although it is already known that in the country of the plasticin hills it is complied with on demand. Listen to this chilling example: 290 000 barrels, 14 500 kilos of polluting waste per day. That's the balance of ENCE's daily pollution over a natural environment like the Pontevedra ria. You have favored the settlement of friendly industries or, rather, the industries of friends, and it is that on the board of directors of ENCE do not feel ordinary citizens, no, no!; feel former senior members of his party, such as Carlos del Álamo, former Environment Advisor, or Mrs. Isabel Tocino, former Environment Minister. It is very curious and paradoxical that in such a polluting company so many people feel responsible for the environment of their party. In this regard, three questions. Firstly, do you believe that cellulose does not affect the seafood, tourism and quality of life of the citizens of the Pontevedra region? Secondly, do you know how many jobs you create in the face of all the jobs you have destroyed and destroyed? Thirdly, do you agree with the fundamental principles of law that a functioning Government grant an extension of sixty years to that factory with numerous unfulfilled sentences? Let's talk about another equally tearing case. In the north of our country, in the Ferrol River, the case of Reganosa. It is a gas plant located inside, as I say, the Ferrol River. There are four Supreme Court rulings stating that this gas infrastructure is null and void. And, curiously, once again the same government in office of the People's Party has wanted to regularize it and, moreover, has done so through an administrative act. In order to set up this company, they have established a confidential agreement between PP politicians, financiers and entrepreneurs, determining that if there were losses, as you always do, the public sector would take care of them. Does this sound like socializing losses and privatizing profits? For in this secret agreement it is made clear and disembodied. What interests are behind Reganosa, we wonder from En Marea, for his Government to have acted against four Supreme Court rulings? In addition, a company of the same group, which is attached to this group, is Forestal del Atlántico, a highly polluting company, to which the concession is also terminated shortly. We ask you: Do you intend to extend the Ferrol ria concession to this highly polluting company? Finally, the general framework, the regeneration of the ria. Rias are a unique ecosystem where the encounter of salt water with fresh water in confined space brings great biological richness, but also a great difficulty in purifying the pollution; in short, a great fragility. This enormous wealth is being threatened by high pollution rates that undermine sustainability and restrict its potential. All ries need sanitation to remove toxic substances from the bottom and rehabilitate entire abandoned areas. It takes an integral regeneration, but this is hardly worth it if you eradicate the foci that continue to contaminate. Every year they promise greedy investments for the regeneration of our ria, of which in the end nothing or almost nothing materializes. I give you another example: the ria do Burgo, in my city, A Coruña. Thirty years ago, they worked in this region of the order of two thousand people; today fewer than a hundred shellfish workers work. Nine days after the general elections of 20 D - what a coincidence - the government of Mariano Rajoy - his government, Mrs Tejerina - published in the BOE the project of sanitation of the Burgo ria, which amounted to 46 300 000 euros to be executed in twenty-one months. In this regard, I ask you, Mrs Tejerina: can you tell us how much has been invested so far? I'm telling you, probably something close to zero. In addition to that, do you know how much this year's General State Budgets allocate to the clean-up of this area? A million euros, or what's the same - I translate it -, smoke. What do we really want from En Marea? For our group, comprehensive action on our ries is crucial, including its sanitation, compliance with European rules and taking account of its dimension as a means of working in the primary sector and in the other sectors as a natural public space. In Galicia, as you know, there is an enormous environmental sensitivity that has led to large demand movements of our environmental environment, such as 'Never again' or 'The rias are not sold'. All the demands of these citizens' movements are the ones that we are trying to transfer to you with this inquiry. In short, responsible and sustainable management, a change in the productive model, a bet for the green economy, a bet for the people of our country, who want and need to continue living from the sea and tides. [[Finish your intervention in Galician]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor, in your question you raise a number of questions; I answer them all in one answer: everything this Government does is in accordance with the current legal order. Before I go into this matter, however, I should like to draw attention to the insistence of your group on asking this Government about the policy of sanitation and purification. I have had the opportunity to speak in this regard on previous occasions before this House - on 23 December 2016 with regard to an oral question from you and on 22 March of this same year with regard to an inquiry by your group - and I remind you, I would like to remind you, that, in accordance with the rules in force, the provision of public sanitation and purification services is the responsibility of the municipalities, not the Government of Spain. It is the local corporations that provide these services directly or through the provincial departments or autonomous communities, and are therefore responsible for the purification of the water. Once again, Your Honor, I must insist that the State only carries out sanitation and purification if previously and by law such works have been declared of general interest. Similarly, of the thirty-eight agglomerations included in the Community file mentioned, thanks to the work of all the administrations we have moved to seventeen where it is necessary to implement measures to improve the treatment of waste water, but of these seventeen the ministry can only act in seven. In all we are working, in fact, six of these seven are already completed or very close to it. That said, and despite the fact that the distribution of competences in our institutional framework is the one that it is, this Government is fully committed to improving the quality of our waters both in Galicia and in the rest of the national territory. We are concerned and concerned about the state of our water ecosystems. We want to achieve our environmental objectives as a matter of priority, and we do not want to transfer the cost of Community sanctions to citizens for any breach, whatever it may be. That is why, at the beginning of the 10th Legislature, the first objective of the Government was to return to a situation of absolute abandonment of water policy and, in particular, of the policy of sanitation and purification, which led - and this is what we find - to the opening of three criminal cases for failure to comply with the European directive affecting more than seven hundred urban agglomerations. The Government carried out an audit in all the autonomous communities to know the real situation, which was unknown, and thus to be able to prioritize investments in the 2016-2020 horizon. We include priority actions in the programmes of measures of the watershed hydrological plans of the relevant demarcations, plans that should have been approved in 2009 and that were not done and approved by our Government. We also incorporate sanitation and purification actions into the Growth, Competitiveness and Efficiency Action Plan, the Growth Plan, which was approved in 2014, which guarantees an investment that will exceed EUR 11 billion by the ministry until 2020, all with the aim of meeting the objectives of Directive 91/2017/EC on urban wastewater treatment and meeting the improvement of water quality. This plan allowed us to launch in 2015 fifty-five clean-up and clean-up actions that were under way but whose implementation was less than desired and which had European funds for the period 2007-2013, thirty-one of which had opened infringement files or were being investigated. Over the course of 2017, it is planned to initiate another 20 actions for a tender amount close to EUR 110 million. In the particular case of Galicia, in which his lordship challenges me, the Plan Grows was during the 10th Legislature the impulse of up to fifteen actions with different degree of priority that were in different degree of execution. In the province of A Coruña, the general interceptor of the Sar river in Santiago de Compostela, the general interceptors of the Ferrol river, also recently connected to the network, the extension of the Silbouta EDAR, the construction of the Ribeira EDAR. In Lugo the interceptor collectors of the river Miño were made. In Ourense, phase I of the EDAR of San Cibrao das Viñas, the EDAR of O Barco de Valdeorras, the EDAR of Xinzo de Limia, the EDAR of Ourense, the sanitation of Pereiro de Aguiar and the sanitation of Laias. In Pontevedra, the sanitation of Vigo, the sanitation of Porriño and the new pumping station in Areas. This whole set of actions involved the investment of more than 320 million euros. Of these actions, we have just finished three particularly important ones, the EDAR of Ourense, Ribeira and Vigo, to which I have referred, with a purification capacity of 1.2 million equivalent inhabitants, of which 800 000 correspond to Lagares, in Vigo, which is Galicia's largest capacity. Ourense's EDAR just over three months ago is fully operational, while the other two are being tested and will do so between September of this year and May of 2018. By that date, these urban agglomerations will fully comply with the discharge parameters of the Wastewater Directive 91/2017. After the completion of these very important infrastructures, it is planned that this legislature will carry out four other actions envisaged in the Plan Crece, three in the province of A Coruña and one in Ourense. The most important project of these will be the new EDAR of O Souto in Santiago de Compostela, with the collector of the river Sarela. A fifth initiative, not included in the Growth Plan but of general interest, will be the improvement of the Verín EDAR and the collectors of the San Roque neighborhood in the province of Ourense, for which the drafting of the project was contracted last February. This set of actions will entail an additional investment of EUR 140 million. In short, they are a set of measures that effectively refute their assertions, because they make it clear that the improvement of the quality of the waters in Galicia has been and is a priority for this Government, which we have devoted a special effort in this area, as we have done in the rest of Spain. Your Honor, it does not look like the current situation we are in 2011 at all. The situation is better each year, because this Government has planned and made very important investments. That is why the quality of our waters has improved significantly in recent years - from 70% who received the qualification of good in 2009 to 77% who receive it today - and our commitment is to reach 90%, which is what marks the Hydrological Plan of the Galicia-Costa Hydrographic Demarcation until the year 2021; a plan drawn up by this government and which his lordship should know. On the other hand, in its question it expresses concern about the situation on the Galician coasts. This Government is very clear that the nearly 10,000 kilometres of maritime-terrestrial public domain, including the nearly 1500 kilometres of the Galician coast, are one of the most valuable assets of our country. That is why our priority objective is to continue to work on the protection of coastal systems, the conservation of the maritime-terrestrial public domain, the recovery of degraded coastal areas and the fight against beach erosion. Since 2012, the Government has invested more than EUR 25 million in Galicia; of this amount, slightly more than EUR 12 million respond to actions in A Coruña, EUR 4.5 million in Lugo and around EUR 9 in Pontevedra. In addition, the General State Budgets project for 2017 envisages an investment of EUR 6.5 million for Galicia, with a dual perspective: that of immediate action in response to the inevitable damage in adverse weather circumstances and medium- and long-term actions. We carried out emergency actions in 2014 worth close to €8 million. Among the structural actions I want to highlight the environmental regeneration of the marshes of A Xunqueira do Areal, in A Pobra do Caramiñal, in A Coruña, carried out in 2016, thanks to the PIMA Adapta, for almost 2 million euros. This work has allowed the recovery of the margins of the marsh with a perimeter of 4500 meters. In the coast of Pontevedra, since 2012, almost 6 million euros have been invested only to maintain and protect the maritime-terrestrial public domain from the action of the natural elements and the pressure of the coast. Finally, I will mention a matter that you mentioned, which is the environmental recovery of the Ria O Burgo, in A Coruña. I want to make it clear, Your Honor, first of all, that it is not good to mix concepts, mixing sanitation and purification with the dredging of the ria. On the one hand, there is the problem of sanitation, that is, avoiding the discharges that fill the ria and, on the other hand, that of dredging, which consists in the removal of sludge. In this regard, I must say that since the beginning of the 10th Legislature the Government has maintained its commitment to the recovery of the ria. We are the only Administration that has drafted a project for the removal of sedimentary deposits that is currently in environmental processing. It will be the environmental impact statement that will define the treatment to be applied and will make it possible to know the actual cost of the work to be carried out. It will also mark the rhythms and the times, because we act not only by complying fully and scrupulously with the Spanish legal order, but also by giving all the maximum environmental guarantees. As long as there is no declaration of environmental impact, no project can be auctioned in this regard. But it is in the process of evaluation and it will then be when all the parties, including the municipalities - and some of the municipalities governed by one of the parties attached to their group will be particularly involved in being responsible for the sanitation of the waters that are going to stop at this point - will be able to agree on the distribution of actions and their financing within the framework of collaboration and dialogue, as I say, essential in these cases, because all the administrations must be involved. That is where we will see the value you attach to the issues you have raised. In short, Your Honor, the policy of sanitation and purification, I insist, being the competence of the local authorities, of the A Coruña City Council, also occupies and concerns this Government, as we have demonstrated since we arrived at it. Some EUR 600 million between the central and autonomous administrations have been invested in ria operations since 2009. The quality of our waters is one of the most important elements of a serious water policy, which seeks to ensure the provision of an essential public service, which is the supply of water in sufficient quantity and quality throughout the country and for all uses, as well as the achievement of the environmental objectives associated with the protection of water; a serious policy such as that carried out by this Government, which first studied and analysed the actual situation of sanitation and purification in our country, because the state of abandonment in which we received it was absolutely unknown in 2011, so that we could then prioritize the actions and thus guarantee the necessary investments; I insist on more than EUR 600 million in improving the Galician estuary. I remind you that we have three sanctioning dossiers for 2011, as you mentioned, which referred to seven hundred urban agglomerations and, as I have told you, a total lack of knowledge of the situation, such was the state of abandonment. The policy pursued by this Government has included these priorities in the programmes of measures of the watershed hydrological plans, which were not done either. We have developed a policy that has included and sought complementary investment by incorporating sanitation and purification objectives into the Growth Plan. We are a government that understands the environment as an ally of growth and employment generation and that therefore reconciles the protection and defence of the coast with the development and promotion of tourism on our coast and also with the employment and well-being of people living on their land and, of course, in the case of Galicia, with the sustainability of other important activities such as shellfishing. You can be sure that we will continue in this line; we will, yes, without demagogy, without uplifting declarations, only rigorously and effectively, so that all Galicians, like all Spaniards, have better quality water every time on rivers and coasts. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Mr Gómez-Kingdom Varela.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u157	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, I am puzzled by your rapporteur for interventions. He initially says one thing and also says the opposite: first he says that they have no responsibility for purification and then he reports a number of initiatives and takes authority over these interventions. Say one thing and say the opposite. Moreover, after hearing his words, it seems that I complain of vice myself, that my group complains of vice and that they probably complain of vice most of the brotherhoods, of the platforms, of the fishermen and of the shellfish and the shellfish of Galicia. In any case, little or nothing has told me about ENCE, Reganosa and the court rulings on these plants and their position on it. In relation to A Coruña, it was only missing that he now imputed the municipalities - which are also doing a very important job in a very short time, in two years, to reach almost the zero discharge - the current problem of the ria of O Burgo; that is what we lacked to listen to. However, I believe that it is up to us to be proposed in this inquiry and to prepare the ground for the motion. For us the key to all this is an integral action and, for this reason, we are going to tell you a series of initiatives that we believe it would be essential to launch. Firstly, we believe that it would be essential to communicate all the initiatives, studies and analyses developed so far to address the environmental and socio-economic management of Galician rivers and to include the initiatives under way to comply with European directives, which systematically - as you said and also acknowledge - we are failing to comply with, on comprehensive sanitation and coastal zone management. Secondly, a process of dialogue must be launched, in which, as we know in the different areas, you are not particularly skilled; a process of dialogue and negotiation with the different administrations involved in the management of the ria in a direct or indirect way for the implementation of public policies, this time integrated. Thirdly, it is necessary to create an environmental information system that integrates all existing environmental observation and monitoring instruments and meets the criteria of open data policies; to ensure that this system is complete and that its design enables intensive use by the different actors concerned: public policy developers, scientists, research centres and, of course, civil society organizations. Fourth, integrate the main existing environmental risks based on scientific criteria, such as pollution loads in sediments, marine crops close to the system's load capacity or risk of oil spills; define environmental assessment and state of risk plans and concrete intervention plans for the elimination and/or reduction of these risks. And, lastly, design and implement real strategic plans for integrated management of Galician rivers, which incorporate institutional design and redesign and environmental and ecological resilience objectives, sustainability and socio-economic development, and also incorporate, in this process, the different political, scientific, economic and citizen actors with interests in these ecosystems. If that is the way, they will certainly find us, the confreres, the fishermen, the shellfish; if not, they will obviously continue, minister, facing us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u158	Thank you, Mr. Gómez-Reino. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and the Environment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u159	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the Government of Spain is not competent, but it invests non-minor amounts to help the administrations that are. It is not difficult to understand and it is not contradictory, it simply reflects the importance we place on water quality from the Government; it is another way to worry about citizens. Between 2012 and 2016, 280 million euros were invested in sanitation and purification in Galicia. This legislature will be key to achieving the goal of comprehensive sanitation of Galician ria after very important progress made in the past legislature. I would like to reiterate to you that one of the primary objectives of this Government is to deepen the enormous work carried out over the past five years in water policy and to avoid the situation of abandonment that we find ourselves in 2011. Your Honor, I insist, of the more than EUR 1 billion invested between the Central and Autonomous Administration since 2009 in Galicia, 600 million have been invested in actions in the ries, which illustrates the commitment of this Government and the Government of the Xunta. I insist, this legislature will achieve the objective of comprehensive irradiation. We work for the sanitation of the estuary and to protect the environment and we get as far as some mayors leave us, for example the mayor of Ferrol, belonging to Ferrol in Communal, who kept the work of the general interceptors stopped for more than a year, with the consequent environmental and social damage to the shellfishers. We are to invest, to improve the environment and to protect the affected sectors; you are to block, confuse and confuse the citizens. I will give you some examples of what we do and what your party is preventing from doing where it rules. Laughing at The Burgo. Your Honor, what I have told you is that the ministry is drafting the dredging project, offering all environmental guarantees, and that once the corresponding environmental impact statement is issued, the distribution of the actions, their funding and the times of implementation will be agreed upon. I have not said that I have not done the city council; I have said that we expect participation, which will be an important test of commitment. Sanitation of Ferrol. The Xunta of Galicia will invest more than seven million for the sanitation of A Malata; this commitment was ratified in July of last year, but today it is still waiting for the City of Ferrol, governed by Ferrol in Communal, to take a step forward and to do the procedures that allow the beginning of the work. I remind you that the general interceptors were stopped for more than a year; a year in which our environment and the shellfishers have had to bear the consequences of their abandonment, when the work was almost completed, just in the absence of their connection. The commitment of the Government of Spain and the Government of Galicia is firm and this is demonstrated by the budgets and the investment already made in this area, EUR 280 million between the various administrations. The consolidation of the Pontevedra ria will continue to be a priority, with planned projects worth 45 million euros and with actions in the network of the different municipalities of the margin of this ria, in which since 2009 more than 36 million euros have been invested. The ministry works to regularize the situation of the EDAR de Placeres, which is prior to the expansion work that will be carried out by the Xunta. As for O Souto's EDAR, as soon as the agreement between Acuaes and users is signed, the work can be tendered. I would like to remind you that if it has not been signed in Santiago de Compostela the agreement cannot be budgeted and that the project is being reviewed precisely at the request of the city council. Therefore, the times are not marked by us, they are marked by the City of Santiago de Compostela. It cannot be budgeted without a prior agreement. I insist, again the ball is not on our roof. He spoke of the urban agglomerations, of Santiago de Compostela, of Aguiño-Carreira-Ribeira and of Vigo. I want to tell you that all of them will soon comply with Directive 91/271/EC. To conclude, I'll make a reference to ENCE. Your Honor, the extension is not granted by the Government; it is not confused, it is an administrative extension, it is merely an administrative act, with Government in office, with Government in full power or without Government. It's an administrative act; don't confuse. The Government scrupulously complies with the Spanish legal system, as is done by the officials of all ministries. This was done with full compliance with the law, following all legal, judicial and legal and environmental reports, with all guarantees of transparency and with the participation of those concerned. I insist, this is not a government decision. What I can tell you is that there are improvements committed by the company, budgeted at 61 million euros, which are aimed at improving environmental quality, in addition to generating employment, which is important, I insist, on their land. But, as we have been told, these environmental improvements have not been initiated because the competent administration - and it is not the ministry - has not granted the necessary permits. Everything that is done, like everything that has been done, will always be in accordance with the law, in accordance with strict and scrupulous compliance with the Spanish legal order. I would like to recall that this Government has always been committed to a constructive, solvent and sustainable water policy, based on rigorous planning, efficient management and consensus-building, investing, even in very difficult times, huge amounts of money to improve the quality of life of our citizens by improving the quality of our waters. This requires everyone's effort, and I hope, as you have said, that you and your parliamentary group will work together to achieve the goals we have set ourselves in this legislature. This will undoubtedly improve the quality of life of all citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u160	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE, ON ITS POLICIES TO COMPLETE THE JURISDICTION OF THE SUPREME COURT IN CARE AND SHARE. [[File number 172/000045]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u161	We turn to the following point: urgent appeal from the Parliamentary Group Citizens to the Minister of Justice on his policies to comply with the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court on custody and shared custody. For your defence, Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u162	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must first express my surprise because the question was addressed to the Minister of Justice - since it is an issue on which we believe he should be asked - and I have just learned that it will be you, Minister of Health, who will intervene in the question. It had to be made clear, because we believe it is a matter of justice, never better said. To deal with shared custody, I'm going to list a number of parameters that I'm going to talk about, because they are necessary: the best interests of the child, real equality, motherhood and fatherhood, inequality among the Spaniards, greed and cowardice; and commitment. These are six aspects that I will be mentioning throughout my speech and that I believe are essential to understand what we are talking about today. When we talk about equality and talk about the best interests of the child, which we sometimes forget, we are talking - or at least we believe it to be citizens - that equality is not just that of citizens to develop freely and on equal opportunities, the right to equality is also manifested in the right of children to enjoy their parents on equal terms. This is not just for Citizens to say, it is for the European Charter of the Rights of the Child itself to tell us textually: Parents have an obligation to share the duties and responsibilities on their education. There are different examples in the European Union on shared custody that have very different approaches. For example, Germany, France and the United Kingdom say that it is recommended if there is no agreement between the parties upon separation. On the contrary, in Belgium and Italy it is established as the first option when there is a separation. Then we have the case of Norway or Portugal, where consensus between parents is required. What is being said to you about the different examples of the different European countries is that we need to regulate this matter and we need to establish the guidelines and parameters from this country. I have to mention a quote made by the former Minister of Justice, Mr Ruiz-Gallardon, in the X Legislature. Don't be surprised, I'm going to take this same date because then I'll be able to link it with desidiy and laziness. He quotes Tolstoy, quotes that book known as Anna Karenina and a specific paragraph that speaks of happy couples looking like each other but unhappy ones are in their own way. Precisely because when they are happy everything is fine, we also have to talk about gender inequality when those couples are not so happy. Because when we're okay, as I said, everything's okay, we go up to the gallery and demand things thinking about children's rights. We do not demand them, we negotiate them, as is the case with paternity permits or as is the case with demanding co-responsibility among parents, but what happens when we are no longer in those happy moments? For those moments Citizens are also here and that is the reason for this motion. We need to focus on what happens after that moment. In 2005, the Civil Code introduced shared custody and custody, and from 2005 to 2015 there has been an increase in the number of shared custody sentences handed down in that country. We have gone from 9.7 to 24.7, but do not forget that in this data there is an average and, within the average, a perversion that creates inequality between the Spaniards, which I will then quote. This situation has also reached the Supreme Court and has led it to declare that, whenever the best interests of the child are respected, shared custody and custody must be the normal and even the desirable formula, of course, always prioritizing the best interests of the child. That is why there are also exclusionary aspects, or at least so we understand, when the level of conflict between parents does not allow this option, that is, when parents are not sufficiently responsible or adult and it is understood that the interest of the child has to prevail, or when there is violence in the family sphere. Of course, in such cases this option does not have to be considered, but it is not the majority of cases; on the contrary, there are cases in which shared custody and custody is the only way to give priority to precisely what is being debated today, which is the best interests of the child, and this is what the Supreme Court says. He says this in the following way: The maintenance of joint power is undoubtedly the best solution for the child, as it allows him to continue to have a stable relationship with both parents. And now I have to talk to you about the inequality of the Spaniards who previously commented on them and about the perversion in which the average data of sentences that give custody and shared custody are hidden. The lack of national regulation leads to the emergence of autonomous regulations. These have some things in common, such as encouraging shared custody, except judicial deprivation; providing for family mediation and excluding cases of gender-based violence. Let's go to the map of perversion, which is the one I was quoting earlier. [[Show a map]] If one of us decides to separate in Catalonia, in the Balearic Islands, in the Valencian Community or in Aragon, our children will have more than 34% chance of having shared custody, and if this is the case in Catalonia, they will have up to 40% chance. However, if we go to another part of the map and separate in Extremadura, Murcia or Andalusia, the chances of shared custody sentences being handed down are reduced to less than 16%, citing the bloody case of Extremadura, where it is 8%. Is this really equality between the different citizens of the country? Do you really believe that the best interests of the child depend on the autonomous community in which he or she is located? Or can the Minister of Justice or the Minister who will answer me at one point say that in the case of Catalonia there are many more skills for shared custody and that however the ex-pairs in an autonomous community such as Extremadura are not suitable for shared custody? Indeed, when we talk about the best interests of the child, there can be no distinctions between autonomous communities, and I think that has become more than obvious with the map that I have just taught you. Now we link up with the quote I made of Anna Karenina and why I named Minister Ruiz-Gallardón and why we need to talk about disdain and cowardice. In the X Legislature, an interpellation was brought to speak of shared custody, which was surprisingly approved by the majority of the House. I say surprisingly because it was Mr Rajoy's government, there was an absolute majority and they had three years to regulate this matter and to enforce that motion which was approved by a majority of the House and nothing was done. That is why we are talking about desidiy, because it seems that there are times when the best interests of the child are not so important and the parliamentary desidiy or the desidiy of a government that by an absolute majority could have done so - because it had voted so affirmatively - and did not want to do so. Then they tell us that we give the can with things, what they want me to tell them, that's why we came here, to work. [[Applauds]] Then we come to the final stage, which is perhaps the most important and is the phase of commitments. It should be remembered - and Mrs Montserrat will know this because she was at the negotiating table - that in point 68 of the agreement that Citizens signed with the People's Party says in text: To promote the necessary measures to incorporate in our Civil Code shared custody and custody as the most desirable modality, making always prevail the best interests of the child and in accordance with the guidelines of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. I mean, if you don't do this, I really don't know what happened to us in the negotiation. Because if we have to bring to a negotiation something that had already been voted on four years earlier and that had not been done with an absolute majority, it is because there is an absolute lewdness and desidia in the Government or in the People's Parliamentary Group. Citizens are not going to make deaf ears to this issue. It is not going to make deaf ears on the issue of shared custody because making deaf ears would mean deepening gender inequality - and that is a reality -, deepening in which the best interests of the child do not prevail. That would be deaf ears. We have to bring many reflections to this House and one of them is that, if we really believe, as Tolstoy quoted in Anna Karenina, that in happy times the couples are equal, if we believe that in those happy moments the parents must be co-responsible and caring for the children - in this House different parliamentarians from different political parties have risen, said it and defended equality, which of course this parliamentary group also defends - we cannot resign ourselves to the fact that in times not so happy in which the couples are no longer as equal - as Tolstoy said - this new role is invalidated at the moment when the couple decides to separate. Because if we're adults to be parents, we're adults to be responsible. If we believe in equality, we are here to defend it not only in happy times, but also in sad times and always, of course, prioritizing the important, because we are here to talk about justice, but above all to talk about the superior rights of the child. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u163	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u164	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rodríguez, from the government we take the shared custody as the flag of the ministry of people, the family and children, and that is why I am addressing this question to you today. The family is the one that each chooses and there are no two equal families. Today more than ever our society is made up of a diversity of families. The common thing about all of them is that they are the place where we learn to be people, where we share values, personal growth, love, education and understanding. When a couple breaks up in a family, there is not a single recipe or magic solutions, everyone faces this situation in the best way they know and can, and that is why we must approach that reality with the greatest sensitivity possible. It is necessary to provide families and judges of instance and family with all the tools that enable them to adopt that solution that best protects the best interests of their children, who are precisely the involuntary, innocent and often invisible protagonists of the ruptures. Before I continue with my intervention, I would like to point out that we are referring to shared custody as a valid instrument to regulate conflictivity in the civil sphere when a couple break up occurs. Under no circumstances do situations of gender-based violence fit into the debate we are discussing today. Faced with these situations, there is only zero tolerance for violence and strict application of the law. Article 3 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child gives the child the right to be considered and to take into account his or her best interests in all measures or decisions affecting him or her, both in the public and private spheres. Article 9 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child explicitly recognizes that children have the right to maintain direct contact with their father and mother, whether they are together or separated. The UN stresses that, when parents are separated, the child should not have the perception that he or she has lost his or her family, because it is they, the minors, the ones who suffer the most and for whom we work every day in his or her protection. The anguish that causes a child to know that their parents are no longer going to live together, that this world in which they lived protected no longer exists, can leave a deep mark on the formation of their personality and we must always keep in mind that the depth of this footprint will depend on the attitude and behavior of the parents. Now, should that right to grow under the protective umbrella of parents, to receive that affection and love that they provide - so necessary to forge their personality - be separated because common coexistence has broken and parents live apart? No, ladies and gentlemen, the best interests of the child are contrary to this. Their well-being obliges us to bear in mind the consequences that each measure can entail for them individually. The best interests of the child imply, first, the right of the child to have his or her life and development in an adequate family environment free of violence and, secondly, to have relations with the family environment developed in the best possible scenario. In Spain, this best interest of the child has been recognized as a doctrine by the Supreme Court in its judgment of 29 April 2013 in its interpretation of article 92 of the Civil Code, which regulates the relations of parents and their children in the event of separation and divorce. In this regard, the Supreme Court points out in article 92 of the Civil Code that shared custody is not an exceptional measure, but must be considered normal and even desirable. The jurisprudence of the Supreme Court, which has developed since the July 2013 judgment, shows us the many situations that we must take into account when establishing the model of shared custody when there is no agreement between the parents. What these sentences show us is a rich casuistic that cannot be ignored. For example, where there is a serious or insurmountable conflict between the couple, it is not advisable, in the interests of the child, to opt for a shared custody system; Judgment of 30 October 2014. However, when the conflict is renewable through dialogue and mediation, shared custody remains as valid as any other model, and is established by the Judgment of 16 October 2015. Thus, the Supreme Court's ruling emphasizes that reasonable differences between parents should not preclude the regime of shared custody and custody because, as it says, it is desirable because it encourages the integration of the child with both parents without imbalances, avoids the feeling of loss of the child, does not question the suitability of the parents and estimates the cooperation of the parents for the benefit of the child. In drafting this doctrine, the Supreme Court has taken into account the Constitutional Court's judgment of 17 October 2012, which declares unconstitutional the prosecutor's mandatory report to grant custody of children under shared custody and custody, because the Constitutional Court understands that the mandatory requirement of the pro-proportional report of the prosecutor's office lacks reasonableness and proportionality. We believe that we should continue to advance as a society and as political leaders towards the co-responsibility and reconciliation of all, of both parents but of society in general, because the education and upbringing of children is a shared responsibility of parents being together or separated. Even when the couple breaks, their breeding project continues to exist and demands even greater care for the benefit of minors. If we agree that children are the first and that children have the right to have a fluid relationship with both parents, we will also agree that both parents have an obligation to exercise parental co-responsibility, because children do not separate, only parents are separated. Even today, figures indicate that women spend more time than men in caring for the family, and that is why we must continue to work to ensure that co-responsibility and reconciliation are real and effective in our country in both sexes. If co-responsibility has existed during the couple's co-existence, it will also be present in the event of a break-up and, therefore, the advancement of shared custody will occur naturally, as society is evolving. For example - you indicated in the data you mentioned -, in 2010 the shared custody model reached 10,5 %; in 2011, 12,3 %; in 2012, 14,6 %; in 2013, 17,9 %; in 2014, 21,2 %; and in 2015, 24,7 %. In other words, there has been an increase since 2010 of fifteen percentage points. This shows the social change that is taking place in Spain, where couples who exercise co-responsibility when they are united also do so when they are separated through an agreement of mutual agreement or by judicial decision in contentious separations. Shared custody has to be an additional legal instrument in our civil law so that parents of mutual agreement or litigation judges have all the legal tools to exercise and protect the interests of the child. We want all legal instruments to exist on equal terms so that judges, in the interests of the child's interests, can assess the cases of families and decide the most necessary option to protect and safeguard the child's interests and rights. In order for shared custody to take place, it is desirable for both parents to be equally involved in the development and growth of their children. There is no doubt that if this model is exercised correctly it is more beneficial for the child. The study Analysis of custody models derived from situations of separation and divorce in Spain, promoted by the Women's Institute in May 2012, gathers the idea that the debate is not in the dichotomy between shared custody and exclusive custody, but that the reality is much richer, and the study reveals that in the face of any process of dissolution of a family the process does not focus on the choice between two custody models, but on different combined positions, taking into account the family circumstances that may change throughout the life of people. The report continues that the choice of some or other mechanisms for regulating the custody process should respond in a personalized manner to each particular situation in response to the emotions that interact with economic, relational, legal and experiential burdens, but always in the interests of the child. Each custody formula should be provided with sufficient flexibility to enable adaptation to possible changes in the starting situation and in the interests of the child. The way to understand this complex system of decision-making on custody of minors should be taken from a multidisciplinary perspective that contemplates above other conditions the needs and perspectives of its main protagonists, which are minors. We must bear in mind that this is an unplanned situation, for which it is never sufficiently prepared and which occurs in difficult times, some emotional tension, so that experienced support is needed to make the best decision for the benefit of minors in the event of mutual agreement, without forgetting in these situations the extended family, grandparents, uncles and other families, which can be unjustly postponed, depriving them and minors of their affective relationship. Within the Citizens' Investment Pact with the People's Party, we sign an agreement - you have explained it very well - between which the points are ensuring greater protection of families as the axis of solidarity and social cohesion in our country, especially for those who are experiencing greater difficulties, and to the extent 68 we agree to promote the incorporation of shared custody in the case of separation and divorce, making the interests of the child prevail above all, collecting the doctrine of the Supreme Court and following the guidelines of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. We do what we have agreed, because not only do we share the philosophy of his inquiry, but it is born out of that agreement. There are five autonomous communities that have introduced the form of shared custody into their outside or own civil rights. That is why we must move forward so that shared custody is also an instrument in our common civil law, because we do not want two Spains, because our children live where they live, we must protect them and the interests of the child must prevail. It is therefore important that the instrument of shared custody is also in common civil law so that there are no two Spains. I conclude by expressing the Government's commitment to the agreement adopted with its group and therefore we will continue to work to ensure that shared custody is an instrument in our legal system, but it must always be done - I would like to emphasize this - by prevailing the best interests of the child, by collecting the judgements of the Supreme Court and the United Nations Convention and, above all, by working with all parliamentary groups to achieve a broad social consensus. It is not - we think - a question of imposing shared custody, but of normalizing recourse to it and that this remedy exists throughout the national territory, facilitating the daily and frequent treatment of children with their parents and reducing the level of conflict of the couple. We believe that shared custody should be based on the following pillars: the primacy of the best interests of the child; avoiding the imposition of shared custody in situations of extreme conflict between the couple or cases of domestic and gender-based violence - because for us there is only zero tolerance with violence against women and their children - therefore the need for a relationship of mutual respect between parents that allows the adoption of attitudes and behaviors that benefit the child, and the assessment of family mediation. But I will not deny, Mrs Rodriguez, that it is not just a matter of our two parties, but it involves the whole of society. That is why we need the majority support of this House, so that shared custody is one more option in our legal system. We sincerely believe - as I said before - that every family is a world, that we have to protect the interest of the child, but that we have to seek that majority agreement. I am convinced that the 350 Members we are in this House today defend and protect the interests of the child. Therefore, let it be our objective to introduce shared custody and custody into the Civil Code this interest of the child. In short, the issue is that parents, in case of agreement, and the judge, in case of disagreement, have all the instruments necessary on an equal basis to give the best response in each case, and always prevailing the interests of the child. Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodriguez. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u165	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Rodríguez Hernández has the floor. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u166	President, Minister, I was quoting Mr Ruiz Gallardón because he already promised. At the time he was talking about rigidities, throwing balloons out, talking about lack of compromise and endless complications, but the reality is that in the end this Parliament voted yes, it voted yes mostly. I will read - because I believe it is a law to read it - the motion that was voted on years ago: The Congress of Deputies urges the Government, within a maximum of six months, and without prejudice to the corresponding specialties in the communities in which the civil law exists, to develop the legal regulation that modifies article 92 of the Civil Code and how many other precepts were necessary, in order to achieve the viability of shared custody and custody in the cases of breakdown of family unity, promoting conciliation and taking care of the best interests of the child, and to understand as a right of the child to relate to both parents, as well as to the reverse, the obligation of these to exercise parental co-responsibility. Why do I read it textually? Because this has already been debated, this has already been voted on and, unfortunately, I have to talk again about desidiy because today we have to discuss it again and bring it back, because nothing has been done. It is not that he did nothing at the time Mr Ruiz Gallardón, who carried the motion and the interpellation at the time, but that Mr Catalá also spoke and expressed himself in relation to shared custody and I do not know whether the desire has really led him to refuse to be in this interpellation today or perhaps he is tired of this subject. I ask you, Mrs Montserrat, to talk to him because, if he is tired, perhaps among all of us we can give him some energy to, once and for all, unblock this issue and we do not have to discuss it further. Because in the end, when the debates are repeated, what we are showing is that there are issues that we let go; because this motion put a period of six months; because the whole Parliament at that time voted for it and because several years later we continue to debate the same thing. I will refer to what you have commented about the family environment and that children do not separate. True, and parents often do not live up to children's rights. That is also a reality, because many times the failure to provide shared custody comes from the bitter conflict that its parents have. But he has also said that the biggest burden of the family, statistically, continues to be borne by women. This would end if we talked about the times when we are not happy, if we talked about that shared custody is a right, that we not only have to talk about equality when we're all right and that parental co-responsibility is before, during and after having children, when you have a partner and when you don't have a partner too. That is why we continue to say - and you have also said this - that children are the first - of course they are - but, even though I know this, allow me to speak again about the autonomous communities, because it has no meaning whatsoever that if children are the first there is a difference between 40% in Catalonia and 8% in Extremadura, because children are the first in all of Spain. Children have to be the first in all family courts, they have to be the first in all custody sentences given in this country, and they are not. We have also discussed point 68 of the agreement. I hope that it will be fulfilled now, because you were present at that negotiating table, so that we do not continue to debate on issues that our society has already assumed, but the legislators have not yet done so. I would like to conclude, as it cannot be otherwise, by referring to Don Mariano Rajoy's statements about giving the can and the popular accent song of this country. I say to you now, and I say this in this House, that Citizens will continue to give the can to defend the equality of all citizens and children in this country. It will continue to give the can to be open societies, to think about responsibilities and people's rights and not about gender rights and responsibilities. Citizens will continue to give the can so that the greater good of the minor outweighs all things. Above all, Citizens will continue to give the can to ensure that all the changes that society has already taken on, and that, unfortunately, neither the Government nor this Parliament has done so far, come and be a reality. So, for that, this parliamentary group will continue to give the can. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u167	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u168	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rodríguez, as I said before, our actions must pursue the best interests of the child. He will agree with me that we must all move towards co-responsibility and conciliation. I'm not just talking about separations, but I'm talking in general in society, to achieve equality. The Government has worked to make it a reality. We have made it possible for either parent now to exercise the right to breast-feeding leave. Work is under way to reach a national pact for the reconciliation of work and the rationalization of hours. Telework in Spain has been regulated for the first time, a major step forward in favour of conciliation. We are also working to make work more flexible, with a bank of hours. The right to shorter working hours for children from eight to twelve years of age has also been extended and the social protection of part-time workers has been improved, matching it with that of full-time workers, which is an unequivocal improvement in the quality of part-time work, especially for women workers. A new aid has been introduced for self-employed people who need to reduce their day to care for their children, increasing their social security contributions to 100 per cent for one year. The paternity leave - I was in agreement - has been improved from two to four uninterrupted weeks. We have also made progress on the pension gap, with the maternity supplement. For the first time Spain is at the forefront of Europe, with France, with a supplement of pensions for women since 1 January 2016, which means raising pensions up to 15% more, taking into account the demographic contribution that women have made to societies with children, in addition to working every day. Well, since its launch, since January 1, 2016, one in two women who retires does so with a pension supplement. It is 150,000 women who have had the opportunity to benefit from the great effort they made to work and have children. The reconciliation of family, personal and work life is a clear objective so that no one has to choose between a job and take care of their own. The best we can do for our children and for ourselves is to work to promote a favourable framework for families. Therefore, custody and custody is another model for moving towards where society is advancing, which is towards co-responsibility, reconciliation and, above all, co-responsibility between the two parents towards their child. As I told you at first, we will advance in shared custody to the extent that we do so also in the co-responsibility of partner relationships and in society. There are neither two equal families, nor two equal couples, nor two equal separations. Above all these factors, there is the welfare of minors, which must prevail over any other interest of the couple. Our commitment to normalizing the shared custody regime is evident. It is an issue on which we agree. Shared custody has to be one more tool to resolve parenting relationships with their children in a separation from a couple. Mrs Rodríguez, shared custody cannot be promoted only - in this response to the inquiry I want to emphasize - with the support of the People's Party and Citizens' Party. We would be half of the plenary and that would mean half of society. I would like to see an agreement that affects all Spanish children go without saying unanimous but a majority, because I am absolutely convinced that the 350 Members we are here are defending the best interests of the child. It is an issue that has a wide social impact and requires majority agreements, so it is essential to add to this agreement all those groups that want to join, create and defend the best interests of the child, and also the Socialist Group. That is why I would like to reiterate to all the groups in this House that we are working together to ensure the best interests of the child. The important thing will be the motion that comes from this inquiry. We will then see which groups we defend in the best interests of the child. We must therefore seek, you and we, the great consensus of this House in order to protect the interests of the child and to transfer this model to common civil law. What cannot be - I completely agree with you - is that there are five autonomous communities in Spain that have this model recognized in their foral law or in their own civil law and instead in the rest of Spain does not exist. This is something we need to change. That is why I would like to give great importance - hence the significance of the motion that will arise from the inquiry - to the fact that we are seeking majority consensus, let us listen to all the groups in the House in order to achieve a great consensus in favour of the interests of the child. I always say that building is more difficult but more profitable for our society, so we have to build a great consensus in this House because, as I say, it will be more profitable for our society. There is no quick or magical solution and family conflicts with children sometimes require tailor-made suits, which goes through a model that prioritizes the best interests of the child above all. Therefore, a model without automatism must prevail in which there is a judge capable of valuing each family and protecting our children. The family is our raison d'être and our shared commitment is to move towards co-responsibility and conciliation; therefore, move towards our commitment to you in the investiture agreement to introduce the shared custody model into our common civil law. Therefore, there we are going to find ourselves, and I am very convinced that we will work on the motion to broaden the consensus. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u169	Thank you very much. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BEFORE THE SOCIAL ALARM THAT HAVE GENERATED THE ACTIVITIES OF OTHER RESPONSIBLES OF THE DEPARTMENT IN CONNECTION WITH PERSONS INVESTIGATED BY CRIMINALS RELATED TO CORRUPTION. [[File number 172/000046]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u170	We now turn to the urgent question by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the Minister of the Interior about the measures he intends to take in the face of the social alarm that has generated the actions of senior officials of the department in relation to persons investigated for corruption-related crimes. For your defence, Mr Sicilia Alferez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr. Zoido, when you were appointed Minister of the Interior, you had not only to plan, direct and inspect all the services of the ministry or to be in charge of the command of the State Security Forces and Bodies; you also had another very important function, that of returning to the Ministry of the Interior the good name and prestige that you had before your predecessor passed through it. Your predecessor has cast that prestige on the ground with such unfortunate episodes as the creation of a political police at the service of the minister and his party for the sole purpose of discrediting and defaming the political adversary, an action which, as you well know, is currently being investigated in a Commission of this Parliament. Or with episodes such as the meeting with the head of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia, in which the previous minister suggested that a management be carried out so that the prosecution would fine-tune a particular matter. Or the other meeting he held in his office with an accused and convicted as Rodrigo Rato was. Well, another meeting, Mr Zoido, this time from your Secretary of State for Security, is the one that brings you here today; a meeting of Mr Nieto with an accused and imprisoned. And it is that, far from the fact that your management at the head of the ministry has improved the image of the ministry, you have followed the path of scandals to which your predecessor had accustomed us. First, the unfortunate spectacle of his friend, the director of the General Directorate of Traffic, trying to occupy a floor of the Civil Guard that did not correspond to him, after the appointment of a superior chief convicted of torture and now the meeting of his secretary of State with the brother of Ignacio González, former president of the Community of Madrid, weeks before they were arrested and imprisoned on the occasion of Operation Lezo. Once again, the officials of the Ministry of the Interior receiving in their office party comrades accused of corruption, minister. Mr Zoido, this meeting is suspicious and unacceptable from the very moment it took place. Therefore, as soon as my group met he asked for explanations in the Senate and we requested the appearance of the Secretary of State for Security in the Internal Affairs Committee. A suspicious and unacceptable meeting, Mr Zoido, because the background tells us that Mr Ignacio González, the leading leader of the People's Party, has long been protected by the People's Party. - You'll know why. Despite the continuous news they received about the alleged crimes that Mr. Ignacio González might be committing, you kept quiet, covered up and even did what was possible and impossible because it was not investigated. They did so in the case of the famous penthouse in Marbella, they used the Ministry of the Interior to avoid investigation. They did not hesitate to cease the Commissioner of Marbella, the local head of that investigation, and then the two senior Commissioners of the Judicial Police, the last ones responsible for the investigation of that attic of Mr González. Then they received the news and even evidence that Mr. Gonzalez had an account in Switzerland, whose origin was of dubious legality. This was confirmed by Mr Floriano, the leader of his party. And what did they do? Did they denounce this fact for investigation? No, they shut up and covered it up again. Now the Lezo operation has arrived. What did you do when Mr González's situation was already insurmountable? Trying to make the investigation difficult with an anti-corruption prosecutor like Mr Ignacio González, I'm referring to Manuel Moix. A prosecutor who opposed certain records in the course of the operation that led to Ignacio González and his brother's imprisonment. This is why the meeting of his Secretary of State for Security with the brother of Ignacio González, weeks before he was arrested, is more than suspicious; suspicious, Mr.Zoido, because the PP has always protected Ignacio González and suspicious because on other occasions he has already maneuvered from the Ministry of the Interior to prevent Ignacio González from being investigated. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have been able to go knowing from the summary that has been published in the press, the summary of this new plot of corruption that affects the People's Party, that of the Canal de Isabel II, Ignacio González and his brother are being investigated. This is clear from the meeting held by the three González brothers on 6 March, in which, according to the summary of this case, they talk about a possible investigation of Ignacio González. In this fraternal meeting, the brothers González, who are known to be investigated, are interested in the chief of police and remember - coincidences of life - that one of the brothers of Ignacio González knows the Secretary of State, Mr Nieto. And coincidences of life, two days after this meeting is received by Mr. Nieto in his office. Doesn't that sound like a lot of coincidence to you, Mr. Zoido? A meeting that both you and the Secretary of State have tried to justify with rather poor and unlikely arguments and, in your case, Mr Zoido, even pueriles. You, Minister, told us that this meeting could not hide anything murky because it occurred at nine and a half in the morning in front of the officials of the ministry, which is like pretending to make us believe that no crimes are committed in the Sun Gate at twelve noon. After this childish explanation, Mr Zoido, with which you try to take away the importance of the meeting for the time it took, you have tried to take away the importance of that meeting for the content. He told us that the meeting was merely protocol, courtesy. Mr Zoido, you have been called by Mr Ignacio González - as you have told us - to congratulate you on your appointment as minister. However, for something so simple as to congratulate Mr Nieto on his new position, Ignacio González's brother is asking for a meeting. How easy it is to call or send a telegram or a greeting letter, Mr. Zoido. As is the case with you, I too have been sent letters and calls to congratulate me on my new responsibility, but none of the meetings that have asked me have been simply to congratulate me because, as I say, there are much simpler means for that. As this explanation is so inconsistent and unlikely, they have had to tell us that at that meeting there was also talk of market security, since Pablo González is responsible for Mercasa; but, Mr Zoido, this explanation is not credible and I will tell you why. It is not credible that a meeting is requested to deal with a topic as specific, as technical as security in the markets and that it be attended alone, without any expert and that the Secretary of State also receives Pablo González alone, without any technician from the ministry who knew the subject that was being addressed. In addition, it is not credible, Minister, that such an important issue as this, that of market security, should be sent out in fifteen minutes, which is what Mr Nieto said during that meeting. In short, Minister, it is difficult to believe that a meeting is called for for something as simple as a congratulations, which can be made by telephone or by letter, and it is difficult to believe that a meeting to deal with something as complex as security in the markets, is dispatched in fifteen minutes without any technician, without any advisor, without any experts from Mercasa or the ministry, only Mr Nieto and Pablo González together in the office of the Secretary of State. In case there were few doubts, the call made by Ignacio González' brother at the end of this meeting adds much more. In that call, Pablo González told his interlocutor that the meeting had been very interesting, but that he could not talk about it by phone. And, Mr. Zoido, what's interesting about a compliment? Nothing, right? Except the meeting would have served for more than that mere congratulations. But if that was something else to talk about security in the markets, why can't Pablo González tell his interlocutor on the phone, if he's part of his daily work? Maybe because he talked about something different than Mercasa and he doesn't want to count on the phone because he's been shut down that he's being investigated and his communications intervened. If Pablo González doesn't want to tell some information over the phone, because he thinks he has the phone on, it's because that information can be interesting not only for his interlocutor, but for those others who may be listening to the conversation, that is, the Central Operating Unit of the Civil Guard. Mr Zoido, in the opinion of the investigator of this new case of corruption affecting the People's Party, the Secretary of State for Security received in his office an alleged member of a criminal organization, the brother of Ignacio González - today both brothers and sisters in prison - in his office. This meeting leaves its Secretary of State in question and in a very difficult situation, Minister. After last week's knowledge of the prosecution's writing, in which the judge investigating this corrupt plot, qualifies this meeting as serious so it may imply - serious so it may involve, says the investigating judge - and the situation of his secretary of state is already unsustainable, Mr. Zoido. If that were not enough, we must add to this the suspicion that Mr Nieto is being subjected to, when that letter from the prosecution speaks of: a closed investigation by the Secretary of State for Security. So it's no longer that Mr. Nieto is questioned, it's that he's under suspicion. The reaction of Mr Nieto, Minister, to this writing was as proud, as arrogant and as angry as that which he had at the Committee on the Interior during his appearance to explain his meeting with the brother of Ignacio González. Mr Nieto took advantage of his position as Secretary of State to address the Special Prosecutor's Office against Corruption and Crime, demanding explanations and a public correction; a very serious intrusion, Minister, and unacceptable pressure on prosecutors and judges who are investigating this corruption plot. But what is really serious is not the job that Mr Nieto refers to the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, what is really serious is that the State Prosecutor's Office, with Mr Moix's approval, disseminated this writing from the prosecution office and disseminated only one extract, only part of the prosecutor's writing, which belongs to a case on which the judge has dictated the secret summary, a fact that many have described as unheard of. This, which seems to be an innocent communication, an exercise of transparency, said yesterday in an interview Mr. Maza, of innocent has nothing, because with the dissemination of this written by the Attorney General of the State, and with the approval of the anti-corruption prosecutor, any possibility of investigation that could be carried out to clarify who gave that shuffle to the González brothers to warn them that they were being investigated. With this dissemination of the prosecutor's writing, the chivatato has been put on notice, which today could be destroying or manipulating evidence so that it is not known who is responsible for the chivataz. I'm just finishing up, Madam President. Minister, I was telling you at the beginning of my speech that you had the task of giving the good name and prestige back to the Ministry of the Interior, and today you have a magnificent opportunity to start doing so by ceasing your Secretary of State for Security. Surely the decision to cease Mr Nieto for you is not easy and personally may hurt you, but it is the only way to remove the shadow of suspicion that weighs on your Secretary of State for Security today. Minister, the number two of the Ministry of the Interior, responsible for ensuring our security and freedom, cannot be under suspicion at any time, as Mr Nieto is right now. That is why, once again, Minister, we demand that you cease immediately. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u172	Thank you very much. I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u173	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President. Sir Sicilia Alferez, I am not coming out of my astonishment; I tell you how sorry I am. The day Mr. Nieto appeared at his own request, on a Friday, weren't you? I wasn't. He appeared, answered all the questions he had to answer and you were not there, and then he said that his answers were inconsistent, that they were unlikely, that he had a lot of arrogance and that you had to see the intrusion he had. [[Sicilia Alferez utters words that are not perceived]] Yeah, say whatever you want, say whatever you want. Madam President, with your permission, I will give a description of what we are being asked about today. I was very surprised, Mr Sicilia, because your speech has been full of accusations and criticisms based on conjectures and assumptions. Of concrete facts, nothing, you have not provided a single data - how you will bring them if you were not when he offered them there, in front of everyone, by submitting to all kinds of questions -, you have shown absolutely nothing. They are accusations that, on the other hand, it is true, they are very serious, very harsh and call into question the honesty and honesty of some people, and also of the Government itself. I don't know if you're really aware of it or if the situation you're living in your party forces you to do something like the one you're developing. Today, it is limited to sowing a halo of suspicion, and at times it has just accused itself without, indeed, a single test. I do not know whether you are aware that we are in the Congress of Deputies, in the parliamentary seat, and that we are not in a press conference, in a public party event or in a television set. Your Honor, I understand that you have to make statements, but I ask you to do so rigorously, with minimal documentation and with data supporting the accusations you have made about the Secretary of State for Security. Do not read some things and others do not, do not use words that have later been left worthless because they have been corrected, because, of course, you have not come to bring anything new; to put it another way, your words tell a reality - or, rather, a story - that reality strives to deny in an absolute way. Believe me that I can understand that any citizen who does not have all the information, as you can do, or who does not know the law, may have some doubts; I understand that the media ask questions, that they seek to know the truth and that they make assessments of the facts - it is their work and a much needed mission in the democratic state -. Mr Sicilia, I will go much further: I would not be surprised, even, that some other parliamentary group, in this very House, would have made an intervention in the terms in which you did it, but from the spokesman of a parliamentary group that has ruled this country for many years, I honestly could not expect it. Because I can understand, perhaps, the theories of conspiracy in the mouth of other people and in other different forums, but in you it has surprised me, it worries me and, I will recognize it, it grieves me. I am not going to talk today about the corruption of your party, I am not going to fall on it, nor on how the last two presidents that have had Andalusia and several councillors today accused and pending the beginning of the trial; I am going to refer exclusively to facts. First, that it was the Secretary of State for Security himself who, when no one had pointed out to him or appointed him in this matter, hastened to clarify on his own initiative and diligently that he had held a meeting with Pablo González. Since then he has given all the explanations that have been asked of him and offered his version by providing all the details that can be provided from his meeting; he has done so from the first day until today, because he who tells the truth has nothing to fear and nothing to hide. The Secretary of State for Security has answered endless questions about the meeting and the days before and after it in two appearances before the Congressional Committee on the Interior - I insist, that to which you, for some reason more than justified, did not have the opportunity to attend -. He has had numerous interviews, has not hidden himself from any means of communication in both the written press and radio and television, in all of which he has been given the opportunity to intervene. I myself have answered three questions on this matter in the Senate's control section. I have done it so many times here and now I do it in this inquiry, apart from the fact that in different statements before the media I have also given all the explanations. Therefore the explanations, and I had the opportunity to tell you last Wednesday, have, in my opinion, been exhaustive, reasonable and convincing. Because the facts are who they are, just as I told him that two and two are always four, as much as some want to commit that is not so. And I told him the other day: perhaps to you what has not interested you or not convinced you are the explanations, but this cannot mean that they have not been enough. I'm going to go on with the facts. The Secretary of State for Security received a request for a meeting from Mercasa's Director of Operations and Strategy in January. As this meeting did not take place, he insisted and requested it again in early March, and taking advantage of the fact that an appointment had fallen, he met on the 8th. During these fifteen minutes of meeting - said the Secretary of State and there is no one who can contradict it - there was not a single reference to Ignacio González. The Secretary of State himself has said: I wish you would have recorded this conversation; I wish someone, Pablo González himself, could have recorded it, because of course the Secretary of State has not been aware of the investigation that has been taking place on this gentleman. He was arrested a month and a half later, and he did not know the investigation because, Your Honor, he did not need to know it, because in fact he cannot know it, since the Government firmly believes and respects judicial independence and the separation of powers. Or is it that when you can benefit from the conclusions of any investigation by a judicial police, at that moment the division of powers is respected and when you no longer care about the division of powers is not respected? Look, the nation's government lets the judicial police work, but it also lets the judges and prosecutors work without any interference. The Secretary of State could not know that Pablo González was being investigated because this was required by the Criminal Procedure Act, the Penal Code and the Spanish Constitution. I have already quoted Article 126. I do not want to be too pedagogic here, but it is that the judicial police are dependent on the judges, the courts and the prosecutor's office and it is they who have to be held accountable for the investigations they have made of the crimes, to ensure the person who has been able to commit the act and also in all the terms in which the law establishes it. The Secretary of State, whom I know, Your Honor, is neither a judge nor a member of any court nor a member of the Public Prosecutor's Office. What is more, the truly worrying, the disturbing for the citizen, especially for illegal reasons, would have been that he knew that he was receiving an investigator for justice, because it is a sign that someone was doing it wrong and no one has done it wrong. The Secretary of State had no idea that Mr. Gonzalez, Pablo, was being investigated, because if he had followed him, I assure you, he would be in breach of what determines the law, the Penal Code and, above all, the Constitution. That would have been intolerable, but I can assure you that would never have been done by the Secretary of State for Security. What, then, do you ask the Secretary of State for Security, that he violate the law, that he does not respect the separation of powers in which the Government firmly believes or is asking him to be a diviner and does not meet with a person who is going to be arrested months and a half later? I continue with the facts because, while you do not hesitate not to respect the provisions of the Penal Code and the Constitution in order to make these very serious accusations, based merely on assumptions, I am disassembling it with contrasting facts. You speak of the gravity of the meeting on the basis of a letter which has already been duly clarified. Where do you want to go, Mr. Sicilia, how far do you want to go? The prosecutors themselves who sign it made it clear that they do not in any way charge the Secretary of State with any offence and that there is no open line of investigation against him. I had the opportunity to read it today textually when I answered a question. The Chief Anti-Corruption Prosecutor has stated that Mr. Nieto has nothing to do with this issue. Moreover, the State Attorney General has publicly apologized to the Secretary of State for - I quote textually - a flawed wording that sowed a halo of suspicion unjustly. The head of the UCO has pointed out to those who say that it is manipulated, that it has never received pressure of any kind and that it works with complete independence and coordination with prosecutors and the judge. Really, what are you getting at, ladies and gentlemen? You are and are part of a party that has ruled this country for many years. But see how far his double measuring rod comes, which is capable of twisting reality according to its own interests, in short, they are able to say, according to their interests, one thing today and tomorrow the opposite. I'm finishing up, Madam President. He has described as inadmissible interference the respectful writing directed by the Secretary of State for Security to the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, in which the only thing he does is ask for information on whether he was being investigated or accused of certain crimes. And you say that that is to be directed in an disrespectful way and that it is an unacceptable interference. He who is defending the truth and his innocence does not have to hide himself from anything, and above all he can immediately ask for clarification. For you to ask for this clarification with the intention of defending yourself from the accusations you know only through the media - as we have known - is an unacceptable interference? Well, at the same time, it requires the Secretary of State to know that a person is being investigated, even though all Spanish legislation forbids it. That would certainly be an unacceptable interference, if the Secretary of State had known beforehand that Pablo González was being investigated. That is not what the Government does; it does not interfere with any of the tasks performed by police, judges and prosecutors. He asks me what measures I intend to take. The measures I intend to take, Mr Sicilia, are very clear. I will continue to respect and comply with the provisions of the law and the Constitution. I will not return, but maintain the good name of the Ministry of the Interior, which I believe should be maintained, just as when you have ruled, i.e. rule the ruling party, because the ministry is above the people we may be serving in at times. That's why I don't have to give him back the good name, because the good name had it, but I'm going to keep it, and I'm going to work with a lot of illusion for it. I conclude, but first let me ask you some questions too so that now when I get up I can answer it. I'll tell you a few more things, too, if I have time to do it. Do you consider it logical to ask us to violate the law and the Constitution? Do you consider it logical? When you have ruled, have you not respected the independence of the judicial police? I want to think that those who have ruled from the Socialist Party have respected independence, the division of powers and that there has been no interference whatsoever. I hope that this is the only way that anyone who governs can preside over the proceedings in the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u174	Mr Sicilia Alferez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Mr Zoido, do not try to defend the situation of your Secretary of State on such a poor argument that I could not attend the Commission in which Mr Nieto appeared. It is inappropriate for a minister to have to defend Mr Nieto on the grounds that I could not go to that Commission. Do you not know that there is the Journal of Sessions to know what Mr. Nieto said? Moreover, there is even a video library in which you can see the appearance and attitude of Mr Nieto; and of course I have seen it, Mr Zoido. [[Applauds]] If that is the argument you have to use to defend Mr Nieto, I think there is very little left for your Secretary of State. I'm still answering. I have not accused Mr Nieto here nor charged him with any offence. What I am demanding here, Minister, are political responsibilities, because I know very well that this is not a trial or a court, but here political responsibilities come to bear, and yes, on facts that are contrasted and proven, and even recognized. It is recognized that the González brothers knew they were being investigated because they were given a slap. It is verified that the González brothers were interested in knowing who the police director was, and curiously Pablo González knew Mr. Nieto and two days later they received him. It is recognized and proven by a text of the prosecutor's office that it is the judge, not my group, Mr Zoido, a judge, who says that this meeting is serious so that it may involve, and that is sufficient reason for you to immediately cease the secretary of state, because there can be no secretary of state appointed in any writing of the prosecutor's office. [[Applauds]] Mr Zoido, you - you have done it on other occasions - appeal to my status as an official of the State Security Forces and Bodies, something I am very proud of; I am very proud to be a police officer. But I'm not here like the cop with a 98918 license. I understand that it may bother you that a cop instead of greeting you and taking orders from you is asking for explanations, but it's the role I have assigned. [[Applauds.-Protests]] Yes, Minister, I'm telling you because last week in the question I asked you, you reminded me... [[A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]] Take it easy, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I know you're very worried. I'm telling you because last week you reminded me of my status as a police officer. I want to remind you of your role as a judge, let me, at least as a lawyer. You know that signs can be taken into account in a criminal trial, and if they can be taken into account in a criminal trial, how are we not going to take them into account in this Parliament to make a political assessment and demand political responsibilities, which is what we are asking, Mr Zoido? [[Applauds]] As much as you try to defend your Secretary of State, the situation in which you are in, beyond the suspicion that some have put on him because it appears in a text of the prosecutor in which we talk about a closed investigation, I tell you, Mr Zoido, that a Secretary of State cannot be under suspicion even at a meeting that the judge who investigates this case has valued as serious as it may involve. Besides, don't miss the truth, Mr. Zoido. You say that the Secretary of State immediately went out to tell us that he had held this meeting; of course, he went out immediately after a media outlet made this meeting public. And he also came here at his own request, right, but say he did it at his own request and at the request of my group, which from the minute one has been asking for explanations. And since those explanations are as trivial as those you have presented to us here today, that is why we also ask you and demand the responsibility for the resignation of the Secretary of State. [[Applauds]] I'm done. Look, Mr. Zoido, listening to your so trivial and childish explanations, in which you have made nothing clear, you have reminded me of a stanza of a song by Vetusta Morla, a song that says: 'In this today there is a missing yesterday/pain and perhaps tomorrow I can come back'. Yes, Mr Zoido, the truth of what happened yesterday 8 March at that meeting of Mr Nieto is missing in your explanation today. And the truth of what happened at that meeting may hurt you because it involves the cessation of your Secretary of State, but it would be better for you to stop it because otherwise, even if it hurts you, you will come back here to continue explaining about this case. If you are curious, the song is called suspensive points and ends up saying: 'Live hanging on suspensive points'. Interestingly, this is how your Secretary of State for Security is located, hanging on suspensive points. You have the opportunity to put the end to this whole matter by ceasing the Secretary of State. There can be no one responsible for the ministry, his number two, under suspicion - I do not charge him with a crime, Mr. Zoido: under suspicion - and they have told him that the meeting he has had is serious, a meeting with a suspected offender who is today in prison. Mr. Zoido, that is intolerable and you can put an end to it today. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u176	To conclude the debate, the Minister for the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u177	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Sicilia, there are no worse lies than the half truths. I didn't mention your police status to you today, I did it the other day, and not in a pejorative tone. I don't know why you came here today because I just justified it to you - unless you weren't paying attention either - because you, as a policeman, had to know the law. I'm sure you know her and that's why you know that you can't communicate as a judicial police absolutely to anyone other than the judge or the prosecutor who has commissioned the investigation how the course of the investigations is going and who is being investigated. It was only because of what I told you, do not come here today to say something else because I have the greatest respect not only for the National Police - which I have -, not only for the Civil Guard and for all the security forces, but I have it all over the world, be and have the profession that I have and live where I live. For all I have the same respect, I was taught as a child. [[Applauds]] I will respectfully tell you one thing, Mr Sicilia, what is happening is that the system and the institutions are working. We have found that there is a judge who is instructing, a judicial police who has been investigating and at least the Ministry of the Interior has not said anything to him - and I am of course of course that he has not told the people either - and a government that has had no interference, a government that has respected, because we had no idea. And what really matters to citizens is that those who have decided the judge who are in jail are in jail, and you have appointed them today. Therefore, the system works regardless of the party they are. I'm proud that the system works. You know why? Because the separation of powers also works. The truth is, I'm convinced he has to make us free. And I insist that when the secret of summary is lifted we can know - because so far only partial knowledge has been - what is really there and then we can really talk. Then we'll see and analyze those clues, because the clues will have to be analyzed. What if it turns out that the clues are absolutely dispelled and there's nothing left? Are you going to go up to this rostrum to at least apologize to Mr. Nieto for the barbarities I had to listen to here today? Are you going to come and ask for them? Are you going to say that those signs have faded and that they have already disappeared or will you continue to insist that there are signs and that there will be'suspension points'? It seems to me that it is not the same as a militant and deputy of a party that has ruled this country and, above all, as part of the Ministry of the Interior, many ministers, many secretaries of state and many senior officials. I would like to know if it has not been possible to be anyone betrayed in those moments when, without knowing who you are receiving, you receive a person, you don't talk about anything committed to him and after a few months it turns out that he is stopped because he is being investigated. I think you've been very unfair, too, here. It is not a question of accusing an offence, but of making an assessment, some statements that you have made here, in the parliamentary seat, in this rostrum. [[Applauds]] The meeting of the Secretary of State was transparent, it was with light and stenographers, it is on the agenda of the Secretariat of State. The gentleman, when he came in, had to show his card at the garage at the door of the Ministry of the Interior and the meeting was at 9:30, as planned. There was no secret meeting and, frankly, they didn't have to see each other at any gas station, and that I think is very important. [[Applauds]] Speaking of clues, you didn't have to look at a gas station and, talking about chivatazos, you know what happens to chivatazos in bars and the consequences that that has. Still, I'm going to maintain respect and I'm not going to delve into that subject, so neither gas station nor shuffle in any bar. Yes, Mr. Sicily, you smile, but this is very serious. Today you are questioning the honorability of a person but above all the functioning of the institutions, the functioning of fundamental institutions such as the prosecution, the National Court and the Civil Guard, specifically the UCO. [[Sicilia Alferez makes negative gestures]] He has put everything in question; he has just left here in a veiled - if not direct - way that the author of the chivataz was Mr Nieto. And honestly, I'm telling you, if it's the same as the meeting you mentioned today, because you say you saw Mr. Gonzalez... It is true that he made a trip with him, but they did not go alone, there were 328 people, the delegation to defend Madrid's candidacy, and Córdoba was his headquarters. The present kings, presidents of the government of autonomous communities, high offices, mayors, sportsmen were present; all 328 people. I trust that if the Secretary of State for Security says that he has not spoken and has no knowledge of Mr Ignacio González, he is telling the truth. Charges that you have poured out false and unjust. Falsas, why? Because they are not subject to any contrasting facts. The prosecutors have shown this, Mr Sicilia, do not move your head, they have already corrected it and have shown it. Besides, I insist, I think we should be fair because one thing is falsehood but injustice is even worse; perhaps, when we can see it and analyze it all, you will regret it. All I'm asking is for you to come up to this rostrum and apologize for what you said here today. I understand that he sometimes plays a role but I didn't think that you - because of the profession you have and knowing how you know Mr. Nieto - would do this. They've accused Mr. Nieto of being empathetic about corruption and snooping around...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u178	You have to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u179	I'm done, Madam President. ...and they say resignation or cessation is the price you must pay. Mr. Sicilia, the price for what? For respecting the law? For meeting with the manager of a company without knowing that he was being investigated and was arrested a month and a half later because the system has worked and is now in prison? Everything's not good in politics, Mr. Sicilia. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u180	We now proceed to discuss motions arising from urgent appeals. Motion following urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea on the privatization of public and health services and its effects on the sustainability of the health system and on the health of the population. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Sibina Camps has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u181	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin, I would like to send from here strength and solidarity to the workers of the newspaper of Catalonia and the newspaper Sport, who are fighting for their rights, but also for the right to true information. [[The Lord]] True information is certainly a determinant of the health of democracy, and as such it must be defended. Cheer up, mates and mates. [[Applauds]] I will use my exposure time to try to explain in seven points why it is time to make a bet determined to shield the public management of our health and protect it from the entry of the private company's profit. First, profit. There is a wide range of publications in magazines such as JAMA that show that, for example, in Canada, centres run by profit-making companies would have higher mortality than non-profit centres. For what reason? Second. Privately managed hospitals have fewer staff, usually with lower salaries; lower nursing staff per patient, which has been related to higher mortality and complications; ultimately, fewer staff and lower salaries. Why do they call it private management when they actually mean labor and precariousness? Third, the results. Studies comparing public and private management are clear. As an example, one published five years ago in Italy, a country with a health system similar to ours. For every EUR 100 per capita increased funding for public management centres, preventable mortality decreased by 1.54%, which was not achieved by similar increases in funding for private management centres. The public is more efficient in improving health than the private, among other things because it is not guided by the maximization of profit and does not have to distribute dividends among its shareholders. Fourth, efficiency. Private management is no more efficient than public management, but less controllable. Private management centres select the procedures that are most cost-effective for their billing and draw patients from among them, such as in the Community of Madrid, where Quirón Salud has created a network entirely parallel to the public management system. The report of the Union of Accounts of the Valencian Community, the recent report that says that per capita expenditure is lower in private management centres, forgets that complicated cases, large interventions and reference centres are predominantly in direct public management centres. We cannot allow public money to continue to fund centres that adapt their service portfolio to what is most profitable for them. Fifth, the ability to control. We have an almost non-existent system for controlling concessions and health contracts. The contracts signed under Law 15/1997 are 20-year extension contracts, which involve mortgages with corporate benefits shielding and which cause things to happen such as the one they have signed, for example, Citizens and the People's Party in the Community of Madrid, where next year the budget of public management hospitals will grow by 2.5% and that of private management hospitals by 6.1%. Yes, they've heard it well, 2.5% compared to 6.1%. Sixth, for transparency. Because all concessional contracts that are signed in our country have problems of transparency in their pricing, in their conditions and in their control by the public administrations and because today we can identify in the health concessions all those companies that are part of the plot that is enriched with the funds of the public. And, seventh, because, as a recent article by José Martín in Bez said, we are in the dilemma between a public health without government and a private without reputation. As much as many of you are committed, the work of the rulers is not to improve the reputation of the private and to make it face-to-face, but to work for the management of public services so that this management is effective, safe, efficient, transparent and, above all, equitable. We do not expect the PP to align with our approach. The truth is that you are already consistent in health, in education, in energy, in pension funds, in housing. What matters to them is not the public good, but the doors turn right and the benefits fall into their pockets. Yesterday, for example, the Civil Guard requested that Cristina Cifuentes be investigated for prevarication and cohecho in relation to concessions to Arturo Fernández, one of the bidders of the Hospital de Vallecas. The PP and the plot of the hand to empty the healing. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, to empty the sanity once again. [[Applauds]] From the PSOE we are completely sure that they will support the work of people of your party like Mrs. Montón, who in Valencia is trying to reverse the privatization of the Alzira model against wind and tide, and we appreciate that they rectify their position regarding what they had in 1997. From Citizens we wait for the PP, but in version I want and I can't. They seek out where there is corruption and run to support the government in turn, and likewise do so with health policies. From the PDeCAT it is difficult to receive support since they are responsible for making Catalonia the largest laboratory of private health management. And from the rest of the parties we hope you will support our motion. We hope that what has happened in these twenty years will be evaluated, through honesty and democratic rigour and to learn for the future. We hope that we can build a basic law of public administration that gives greater freedom to the autonomous communities to innovate within the framework of their competences within the public management of health, but that puts a stop to the private management of public health. And we hope that this will affect all the people living in our country because we want a health that will leave no one behind. I'm done, Madam President. I am a simple nurse who was born a 15M of 1973. On Monday, fifteen years of the 15M, the one of 2011. That day many of us and many of us went out to the streets and found ourselves in the squares and decided that the common things had to be addressed and dealt with from the common, without outsourcing. That's what we're going to do and we're going to keep fighting to get it from institutions and from the streets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u182	Thank you very much, Mrs Sibina. In defence of the amendments put forward, Mr Igea Arisqueta intervenes first, by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u183	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Sibina, I'm also a simple doctor, what I'm not is a simplist; they're two different things. [[Applauds]] I was sure that we would agree on many things and disagree on so many other things. Among other things, because we are not the people we accuse and say that the desire for profit, that personal interest is the devil or Lucifer; we are the people who believe that we do not have dinner every day because of the kindness of the baker, butcher or brewer. And it is true that the People's Party has done a few things wrong in health; the PCI models have been a disaster, they have been an economic disaster in Burgos, they have been a disaster in Madrid and elsewhere. It is true that many things have been done wrong and you are accustomed to calling this neoliberalism. I'll tell you what. Giving concessions to friends in exchange for commissions, without any risk because it is always rescued, without control, without accountability is not neoliberalism; we can call it otherwise, neo-clientism, but not neoliberalism. We are not going to follow that logic so easy that you have used, a logic sometimes overwhelming, a logic that I call Barrio Sesamo: we have 5 euros for public health; this fat guy takes one, we have 4, and with 4 we do less than with 5. [[pointing at your thumb finger]] This is easy to understand, but it's not always the case. What matters in politics are the results, what matters to the citizens is what results we give them with the 4 or the 5; that's what matters, the results. That's why I'm going to use an example you've used here twice, and the truth is I didn't think this second time would make it so easy for me. One of the hospitals that you mentioned and that I will not name, because I am not here to advertise to anyone, is one of the eight most complex hospitals in the Madrid Community, of private management. I will tell you that this hospital is the second in consultations, the second in number of interventions, the first in magnetic resonance imaging, the first with the best result in terms of mortality - with the best result in mortality due to acute myocardial infarction and with the best result in mortality due to congestive heart failure -; the second with the best result in pneumonia; the first with the lowest number of hospital infections; the second with the best rate of cesarean sections; the first in outpatient surgery; the first in laparoscopic cholecystectomy; and the first in adjusted mean stay index. But the most important thing is that it is the one that generates the greatest satisfaction for its citizens. It is the first in overall satisfaction, the second most recommended hospital and, if you want an objective test, in free choice has a positive balance of 20,000 consultations. There are 25 000 gentlemen who go to their area for 4000 who go, the most positive balance of the entire autonomous community. For some reason - something will have water when it is blessed - citizens choose a center like this. We, of course, are of the opinion that this can be done equally well from the public and through direct management, and we very much agree with the five things they ask for. First, they ask for a study, in which we agree: let us make an objective study. These data are taken from the Madrid observatory, they come from an objective study, but we can do all the studies we want because we will never refuse to study, but, secondly, before having the results of the study - which is a test of usual sectarianism - ask to ban all concerts. So, why do we do the study if the determination is already made? They ask to reverse spending to 2009, something in which we so agree that in a community whose budget depended on us, such as Castilla and León, we have returned to the 2010 budget. Why? Because it was better than 2009; per capita budget record that year in health care. For that we must have determination and will, and do a little less demagogy. You are asking for more indicators regarding hospital-by-hospital studies. This is an essential part of our program; we want them for all, but we want them to look at them and compare results. What we can't do is have good indicators, have good results, and then say it doesn't matter because it's private. So, why do you ask for the indicators? Why did they do this in Valencia? There are sites - I won't say the site, because every time you say this country any on your bench you take a shot - in which when the indicators are bad to you they throw you as a minister. This has happened recently; they have thrown a minister from a country that I will not name as saying that infant mortality has risen by 30%. You are in favour of returning to universality and health as a right of citizenship. So do we. But none of this amazes me because, as Mr Olòriz said the other day - which is also in the House today - with you passes as in the fable of the scorpion and the frog: it is your nature. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] What amazes me is the agreement you have reached with the Socialist Party, because, Socialist ladies and gentlemen, I anticipate that beyond 21 May there will be life, no apocalypse comes, and you will have to present yourself to the autonomous and manage your hospitals and answer for all the concessions you made, because this comes from 1997. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Mrs Sibina, not everything you propose is absurd, not everything private comes from Lucifer. Spanish health needs a little less sectarianism, a little less flagging, a little more measuring and a little more common sense, so we have tabled that amendment, which we are sure you will not accept because here the important thing is to shake the flag and not solve the problems. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Igea. Mr Fernández Díaz has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u185	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The National Health System designed by the General Health Act is based, as you are well aware, on public insurance and financing based on solidarity taxes and not on co-payments, and decentralized; a provision of a public majority with complementary private services. [[The lady]] It is a design that, by doing many times of necessity virtue, achieves results to the best of the best and that in some cases reaches excellence, such as the training of professionals, the quality of many public hospitals or the organization and resolution capacity of our primary care, which, as I would like to recall here, a few days ago has been recognized in an article in The New York Times. We must be proud of all this, but not complacent, because in public health, as in any other human enterprise, we always find areas of improvement and modernization, because neither the needs nor the citizens' expectations nor the opportunities and possibilities of management remain the same. That is why the Socialist Party is always looking for formulas that will improve the performance of public resources, because improving the profitability and value of each euro is an ethical value that must concern us with the same responsibility with which we demand sufficient funding for public health. Therefore, when we address the debate of health privatization, we must do so rigorously, focusing on where the problems we want to correct, which have a name, health concessions; they have an author, the People's Party; and they have two causes, the ideological and economic interests. Therefore, we are not talking here, Mrs Sibina, about the private provision that complements public health, nor about the agreed centers, which in almost all the territories of Spain have been paying attention for decades, regional hospitals with different legal and property formulas or entities that do not want to profit that in many cases carry the weight of social health care or mental health in many autonomous communities; we are talking about health concessions, initiated by the People's Party of Valencia in 1999 with the granting of the Hospital de Alzira. Then there were four more departments and then the recipe of the Popular Party of the Community of Madrid was applied, with four hospital concessions in this community. [[Applauds]] Let us remember that the initial concession of the Hospital de Alzira was in 1999 and that, after its failure in 2003, the People's Party decided to compensate the concessionaire, increase her canon and give her full responsibility for the health of the population of the entire region of La Ribera. It is the first time that the responsibility for the health of a population is outsourced to a private manager and it is also the beginning of a long and sluggish privatization race to which the two governments of the People's Party have devoted themselves, which, as far as we know, are the most corrupt, that of Valencia and that of Madrid. Health concessions have not been able to demonstrate any greater efficiency. There is no independent study that finds greater profitability of private management vis-à-vis the public under homogeneous conditions. It is not the same a modern district hospital, with a young staff and a delimited service portfolio, that a larger hospital, with older staff, structures and technologies, and that also has no capacity to delimit its service portfolio, has to provide everything and everyone. We must also take into account the opacity that exists in the flows of services and transfers between public and private services or within the framework of the concessionaire itself, as we have been seeing recently in one of the concessionaires, precisely that of the Hospital de Alzira, in Valencia. However, no improvement in the profitability of private management over the public has been demonstrated, the risks of these private concessions are very high. The opportunity to select more profitable patients and derive the most expensive services to the public sector or to capture the decisions of the public official, whether with favors, pressures or abusing a dominant position - I would also like to recall that a company is present in all but one of Valencia's health concessions - makes the risks of these concessions high. In addition, if the contract is rescued and modified for the benefit of the successful tenderer, the consortium has among its partners banks or boxes of doubtful reputation and dependence is almost monopolistic, the suspicion that there has been a trap here and that what it was about was to benefit a few and harm the majority is inevitable. Warnings on the risks of health concessions are multiple; they have been given by the National Competition Commission and the Spanish Public Health Society and many others.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u186	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u187	In any case - and this concludes, Madam President - the question would not be whether private management is more efficient than public management, but what we must do and what instruments are needed to make public management more efficient. It is not Law 15/1997 that has caused the privatization of Spanish health, but the ideology and interests of the People's Party. That is why the Socialist Parliamentary Group is going to support this motion by the Podemos Group and we have recorded an amendment of addition which we hope will be considered, giving political support to the governments of the autonomous communities which, as in the case of the government presided over by Mr Puig in Valencia, have decided not to renew the health concession contract at the hospital in Alzira. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u188	Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u189	Thank you, President. Once again, the Government of the People's Party in the Valencia Country is an example of mismanagement and misrepresentation of funds in this Parliament. Without a doubt, the model of management of public services is ideological and we are seeing it as my colleagues are intervening. Each party sees the importance of investing in health, social welfare or education services in a different way. Some people think rights can be a business and we think we have to defend rights above all else. Although we are all full of our mouths talking about the importance of public services, it is not the same public management as private management, and here we find great differences between what the People's Party thinks, between what Citizens have exposed and between what they think, for example, Compromís. The Socialist Party seems to be on the side of the public service this time; I hope that the primary ones will not change this decision. The difference between the motion presented and the management of the People's Party or the proposals of Citizens is abysmal. There is also an insurmountable difference between the management of health for more than twenty years by the People's Party and the management that the Government of Botànic is now doing and has set itself as an example here. [[Rumors]] The popular model is based on socializing losses and privatizing profits. The Alzira model, which has been quite named. A hospital run by a private company with all the facilities by the government, public services to benefit companies. The basic principles of the Alzira model are: public ownership, public control, public financing and private management. All public obligations and all private benefits. A chollo for the company and a disaster for the administration. The debt at the end of 2016 that added up all these concessions was for the Generalitat of more than 250 million euros; that is, they did not only fulfill these privatized hospitals with the few economic responsibilities they had. Compromís is clear that this model does not want it in the Valencia Country and, therefore, we are reversing the situation. Besides, what we don't want for us, we don't want for others either. Thus, our model is quite clear and confronted with that of the People's Party: public property, public control, public finance and public management. It is an efficient, fully public and quality model. It has been shown that the model of health privatization of the People's Party generates an insurmountable deficit, so if corruption treads their heels, incompetence in management is unquestionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u190	For the Joint Group too, I have the floor, Mrs Nogueras i Camero.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u191	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies and deputies. Either out of prejudice or out of ignorance, many demonize everything private. His tired populism only distorts the Catalan reality, but now, in a minute, I disassemble their discourse about Catalonia. In Catalonia more than 90% of the concerted health is carried out by non-profit entities, foundations and cooperatives, i.e. they do not share profits like businesses. This is the reality in Catalonia. You've confused profit-making with managing. The Catalan Law 15/1990 makes very clear its public ownership and diverse management, as diverse as the Catalan reality, which at this point you should already know. This law has been agreed primarily between Convègencia, the demon, and Initiative, its current partners and subsequently joined the rest of the parties. We have a comprehensive consensus system. We share with you that no one should be enriched by the health of all and add that it should not be used as a political weapon either, but we do not tolerate the questioning of Catalonia's health system in those terms. Another thing is what happens in the rest of the Spanish state, but don't put us in the sack. In addition, you have been wrong to debate; the debate in the advanced countries is not the one of ownership, the real debate in health is how we get more resources and how we manage and use them better. Sweden, New Zealand, Germany, do they ring a bell? It is enough to sell the story that in Catalonia public health has been privatized for profit because it is simply a lie! They continue with their ideological discourse to reaffirm themselves as the old and immobile left, but they do not confuse us with debate. The citizens of Catalonia are very clear that we have public health care. I'm done. You are the same as in your first major social service competition in home care at Barcelona City Hall you spent the service that you had been doing non-profit cooperatives to Sacyr-Vallehermoso for years, this yes, Spanish multinational for profit. So less lessons and more rigour. Despite the efforts of many, the health system in Catalonia has not been loaded and we are here to defend it. [[Finish your speech in Catalan]] Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u192	For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u193	Thank you, Madam President. We have here a motion resulting from urgent questioning brought to us by the deputy of Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, and I want to start my speech with a phrase that, of course, does not cease to be real: that the defence of the public health system for us is the basis of the democratic, social and welfare state, without any doubt. Is that an obstacle to the absence of a private sector offering health services? Not at all. It has also been said by other colleagues that we have the old and false conception that service and ownership is the same and are two very different things. We want a health service that reaches everyone, a service that is good for citizens to enjoy. Obviously, the bet that at least my party is always going to make is for a strong, powerful public system to reach out to all, no doubt, but we conceive the private health sector as complementary, not as a substitute, although in many cases also necessary, especially in the scenario of growing population ageing that we have, for example, in Basquedi - in the Spanish State too - where public-private collaboration is essential if we want our health system and the people it serves to continue to enjoy good health. In fact, the concerts held today by the Osakidetza with the private sector allow us to improve some services and also accessibility in certain geographical areas with less availability of a public resource. The importance of the private health sector, which has its own sphere of action, contributing to the health of our population and also, let us not forget, generating employment and wealth is certainly great. And we say this from the legitimacy it confers to speak on behalf of a party that is part of a government, the Basque government of the lehendakari Urkullu, which makes an effort of the most important in social policies, with a public investment in health of 1619 euros per person in this year 2017. They are data that speak for themselves of our commitment to social policies and, in particular, to the public health system in the case of Euskadi. All this despite the population ageing, as I have said before, and the economic times that we have had to live and manage. Osakidetza, the Basque Health Service, continues to provide a public, universal and quality health service, and has maintained all its services, streamlined its resources and has been able to expand and modernize its services in response to current challenges and anticipating those of the future. Public-private collaboration is necessary, no doubt. So, for example, last week - and we have no pain in saying it because we are proud of it - Lehendakari himself signed an agreement with the Amancio Ortega Foundation that allowed Osakidetza, the Basque Health Service, to acquire new equipment for the diagnosis and treatment of cancer. Is that harmful to society? No, no, Nor does it have to say that our obligation is to continue to improve - there is always room for improvement, without any doubt - and that goes precisely, among other things, to maintain, as I said, public-private collaboration from loyalty and respect for each one's fields, always thinking of serving society as best as possible - in this case to Basque society, but I suppose that those who are all here will want to serve their society as best as possible. But there is a fourth point, Mrs Sibina, which I would like to include in the last few seconds that I have, and that is the area of competition. In the proposed part of the motion that you have put forward, you urge the Government to take actions that do not fall within its competence, that some of them are not even within the competence of this Parliament, if you truly believe that, as much as the object of your initiative is of universal value to all, it must respect its competence. I think very well many things that you raise in the motion and I am in favour of some of them being carried out, but in the case of Euskadi - I don't know elsewhere -, if it is to be so - which is already so in many of the issues - we will decide it there, not here, because that is where we belong, there. We cannot and must not make decisions that skip precepts that the law allows, for example, the existence of private health care. The disasters of others cannot be valid for us all to change. The reason cannot be that; let those who are doing it wrong change, because some have done it very well besides and others very badly. Therefore, apply what is needed to those who have not managed it well. I'm done, Madam President. Our commitment to universal, public, quality and comprehensive health has no doubt. Our budgets show that. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u194	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left we welcome this type of initiative, as we believe that public health is and should remain a universal service in which there should be no room for profit. In fact, Catalonia has actually opted for the universal model of health and demonstrated it with opposition to the Royal Decree 16/2012, which we believe will boost the model of health coverage and universal character of the state health model. That is why we are announcing our vote in favour of this initiative. We believe that in the current model of health of the Spanish State it is necessary to change this trend towards public and transparent management of health services to which sufficient resources are allocated. A management that, let's remember, is exclusive to the autonomous communities. A trend that in Catalonia we have begun to reverse by the hand of Councillor Comín, terminating the contract with a profit-making center in Sabadell and with the possible purchase of the General Hospital of Catalonia by the Generalitat. This deprivatization means that the Servei Català de la Salut, a public body responsible for purchasing health services in Catalonia from different providers, would not renew the concerts to those private centers for profit provided that the derived activity could be assumed by a public center, as established by the principle of priority of the Law of Health Ordering of Catalonia This implied in the short and medium term not renewing the concerts with three private centers for profit of the same group, the health giant Quiron Salud: Clínica del Vallès, Hospital General de Catalunya and Hospital Sagrado Corazón. [[LOSC]] And it would be done as the contracts were finalized. As far as the control of contracts and concessional services is concerned, we trust that the Contracts Act will allow, from the maximum transparency, the final regulation of the procurement framework of public administrations and, in this regard, avoid corrupt procurement practices. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u196	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Hernández Bento.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u197	Thank you, President. Mrs Sibina, your assessment, your negative, almost catastrophic opinion of our health system is surprising to me. But the truth is also that at this point it is quite predictable. You don't care what we talk about! It's all wrong, it's all disastrous. Yes, it is always the same and what is really surprising is that today, too, we are talking about our National Health System, when you know perfectly well that our health system is a benchmark in the European Union and in the world, it is so. I'm not going to ask you for humility; I'm not going to ask you, you ask for all the others. No, I'm just gonna ask him to listen. For it is not only we who say it, but the citizens, the people; but they tell us and all of you, ladies and gentlemen. The health barometer makes it very clear: the vast majority of users, over 80%, consider the care they have received in our health service to be good or very good. It is the opinion of the population, of the people, about the functioning of the system. It's been like this for years. You'll have to assume this, I say! We have it very clear. The minister made clear the position of my group, the defense of public health is clear, decisive and firm. The Government and, above all, the autonomous communities, which are competent, work every day and do so to ensure the universality, equity, cohesion, efficiency and sustainability of the system. Because our health system is universal, public and free. This is how it is and what we should be here debating is what we have to do, and we should all be in this. And what the Government does is work to ensure the sustainability of the system with levels of quality and professionalism, modernizing its functioning, expanding the service portfolio, improving it, working on strategies that address the challenges of the future. This should be your concern. But you say no, it's all wrong. Well, look, we have a functioning health system and the merit is not ours, although some people today seem to deny what has happened in recent years, it is everyone's. The competencies are in the autonomous communities and it is the autonomous communities that have made decisions on the management model. These decisions are the ones that have been consolidating our National Health System in all autonomous communities. By the way, in some more than in others; you will have to agree from next week with Susana Díaz, because Andalusia is the autonomous community where the most concerted hospitals exist. In all autonomous communities, different forms of management and public-private collaboration coexist. And the result, after twenty years, has not been so bad: life expectancy has increased, citizens are relatively satisfied, the portfolio of services continues to improve, we have excellent professionals; we have progressed. What I'm telling you, Mrs. Sibina, is that you look to the future. The future faces challenges: the ageing of the population, low birth rate, increased life expectancy, chronicity and dependence. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all responsible for maintaining the National Health System that we enjoy today and are primarily responsible for consolidating it for the future. Let's talk about the future, you just want to talk about the past and you know that we face these challenges. The presidents of the autonomous communities also know that and that is why they have agreed to face them together. My group has a real commitment to the public; not part of the discourse or the pose, because defending the public is to give the best possible service, with the highest quality and with an efficient cost that ensures sustainability, investment and employment, public employment as well. Therefore, with the agreement reached with the trade unions, 129,700 places will be offered in the National Health System. This is working for the public, for public employment. You talk about legislative measures that guarantee the right to health care for residents. But if this is already recognized, this is already a right. As for foreigners who are in Spain in an irregular administrative situation, our country - and you know it - has the legal framework for the greatest protection of these people in Europe, the best and also the most supportive. Gentlemen of Podemos, if what really moves you is to want to improve things, if that is so, why when it is proposed that we sit down to talk and reach agreements - and now I mean the health pact proposed in the Senate - do you refuse? Put aside ideological prejudices, demagogy and victimism; change your attitude, leave it now. If there are differences between all political groups, we park them when it is worth it and, of course, it is worth doing so for the health, which is everyone's. The debate should not be whether management is private or public, but how to improve health, which is already public, and in that my group will always be. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u198	Thank you. I ask Mrs Sibina Camps whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u199	We accept the Socialist Group's amendment to add.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u200	Thank you very much. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE POLICIES OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY ON INTERNATIONAL ADOPTIONS IN SPAIN. [[File number 173/000031]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u201	We now discuss the motion following urgent questioning by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group concerning the policies of the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality on international adoptions in Spain. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Reyes Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u202	Thank you, President. The motion we are presenting today is nothing more than a desperate cry from many families, many people who have been waiting too long just to help a child, some more than ten years, and many have had to give up on their attempt because of the cowardice of the People's Party. [[The Lord]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the cry of these helpless children because they are not even aware of what is happening to them yet, but if they do not scream today, they will do so one way or the other tomorrow. In my previous interventions, I spoke primarily of these children, of children, of the attachment capacity they need to develop. It is clear that they are the protagonists of this history and their problems must be, without discussion, the main focus of attention of any precious State. No one will deny that. The simplest thing would be to keep talking only about them but I think it is also fair to talk about the other protagonists of this story and I will do so because on too many occasions they are despised. It is these exceptional people who are going to take care of these children, people who are going to play a very important role in our society. It is regrettable that, far from appreciating and enhancing attitudes like those of these people, from the Executive, what is being done is to put more and more obstacles on them, to the point of having completely blocked adoptions in our country. Do you know why they do this? Because for you these people are a problem, a complication or, as Mr Rajoy usually says, a mess; he said it this morning talking about strangulations. It's easier to say that not everyone is fit to adopt and that those people may want to satisfy their selfishness, all of which has been adapted in addition to the recently repeated: there is no right to be a father. No, of course, it does not exist because there is no rule that collects it, at least until now; and it is true, not everyone can be a parent if we respond to what these words truly mean. But, ladies and gentlemen, do you know how many tests, how many interviews these people pass to be declared fit to adopt? A lot. And you know what they call those interviews? The screening. When someone starts that periplo, they have the feeling that what the executive is about is to take away their desire to adopt. Still, 33,000 Spanish families are already declared fit and waiting. For, ladies and gentlemen, those 33,000 families that are a problem for you can be the table of salvation for 33,000 children. There is no right to be a father, but do you believe that without these people who fight against wind and tide because they are, something could materialize that is an internationally recognized right, the right of a child to have parents? In order for that right not to be a mere utopia, which is what the present Government is turning into, these women and men are necessary and indispensable. And do not misrepresent my words, which the minister did the other day. Of course, there must be security and guarantees in the process. We do not say that parents do not have to go through all those previous checks; do those interviews and establish the necessary measures, but provide you with help. The work they are going to do is basic and necessary for our society. They provide such assistance before, during and after the adoption process. They do not, ladies and gentlemen, on the contrary, directly deny the possibility of adopting to avoid problems. Are you really aware of how things are working? I'll explain. After the so-called screening, the state practically disagrees with the process, 90% of adoptions are carried out by accredited bodies, non-profit entities that do not receive any public funding; neither do these bodies nor do families receive it. But the question is not even whether or not you get help, I wish it was just that; not only do you not help, it is that you block the work of those entities, it is that you have paralyzed the processes. Among other things, they are blocked because they have not made the necessary regulations to be able to develop the Child Protection Act, which has been in force for more than two years. In Citizens these past two years we have not ceased to ask for such regulations and no trace. At this point we all know that it is a law that has remained on the paper and that you used only to campaign, so please ask the spokesman or the spokesman of the People's Party to intervene not to tell us again the goodness of this law, as the minister did last week. And don't tell us that regulation is already done when it's not true. They announced only the public consultation and just the day our inquiry took place. What a coincidence! However, after so much inaction on the part of the People's Party, we must say that we are glad that the citizens' insistence begins to bear fruit. You made a small, tiny move last week, but, as you know, it's not far enough. So with this motion we give you a new push because it looks like if you don't, you don't move. If supported, they will have a maximum of three months to have that regulation ready and to resolve the almost absolute blockade that exists in the adoption processes, both domestic and international. Because, look, we no longer admit that in Spain today it is impossible to adopt. National adoptions in many autonomous communities, such as Madrid, have been closed for several years. This being Spain one of the European countries with the most children in juvenile centres. Children have the right to a family, not to live in an orphanage. [[Applauds]] International adoptions are only effective in five countries where it is necessary to wait for more than ten years, in some of those five even the possibility of processing new files is already being closed. Meanwhile, in other countries such as France, Germany or Denmark - very suspicious of them in security matters - nothing more and nothing less can be adopted than in forty-five countries that are closed in Spain. Something is happening, ladies and gentlemen, and we do not admit it when the reality is that in Spain we have 16,000 children in children's centres and in the world there are 120 million orphans. The Executive cannot continue to deny the possibility of adopting so many Spaniards who want to do so. It is appropriate for you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to assume the 21st century for a long time now that there is no single family model. Citizens must have the freedom to form a family as they wish, if that is what they want, and if not, not to do so. All you have to worry about is protecting your rights. Do it once and for all because you have lost a precious time that will be very difficult to recover. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u203	Thank you very much, Mrs. Reyes. In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mrs Nogueras i Camero intervenes, first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group - which will also adopt a position at this time.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u204	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. This proposal was tabled as a GNP in the previous parliamentary term and in this Parliament, and our group has already shown its rejection, hence our amendment. The law on which they claim regulatory development and enforcement involves an invasion of jurisdiction in every rule in the case of Catalonia. It has become a bad habit for parliamentary groups to make proposals without knowing that we have powers in Catalonia and that we exercise them. In Catalonia we have mechanisms that work and you are dedicated to destroying them. You always have the law in your mouth, but whenever it applies in one sense: in your favor. When it comes to the jurisdiction of Catalonia, is it not necessary to comply with the law, even though it comes from the constitutional block and the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court? We will go back to the origin of this law. The People's Party is directly responsible for stoning the Catalan model of success in international adoption. Curiously, that which Francoism accepted in 1960, the validity of Catalan civil law in matters of adoption and which in recent years we have developed in a powerful and solid way, the People's Party liquidated it two years ago, and today you are accomplices. Catalonia is recognized as the central authority for international adoption by The Hague. No other autonomous community has exercised this right. That is why Catalonia is where it is most adopted and where the waiting list is more numerous. Catalonia has opened itself to the world; we have worked very hard to open ourselves to many countries, and the response of its Government has always been to restrain, veto and centralize our efforts to bring them down. Spain is closed and we will not stay in the same room. We have too much work to waste time with your rigidity and your vetoes. The retreat in this matter is a shame. When they passed this bill in front of our argumentary based on the invasion of competences in an area that was developed in Catalonia, the response of the People's Party was: perfect to work in Catalonia, but not in the rest of the state. This is the picture then: faced with the option to add, work together and try to adapt a success model, your answer is to destroy the success model. It did not exaggerate last week when I told them that they have no interest in respecting the competences of the Generalitat de Catalunya, although for this they carry a model of success that could benefit other citizens. They have not been able to detect the problem and are now part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u205	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nogueras. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u206	Thank you very much, Mr President. This initiative focuses on finding solutions to problems related to intercountry adoption, a complex and very hard process in which families facing it suffer a great deal until it is completed and worse still those who, wishing and trying to be adoptive, cannot do so even after many years of waiting and not rarely after having personally known the reality and cruelty of the daily life of the child. In discussing this issue, I consider it necessary and opportune to recall, as an extraordinary matter, the work that was done in the Senate with the creation of the special commission that during the year and a half of the VII Legislature worked intensively to draw conclusions that are very valid today. Then Spain was the second country in the world with more than 5500 annual adoptions. Since those dates it is in progressive and accused decrease, it is published that only 799 in 2015, of the 53 694 that total these last two decades. While Congresswoman Reyes Rivera has recriminated the Government's parsimony, it is clear that there have been profound changes in the processes of international adoption. Several of the usual countries of origin of adopted boys and girls have strengthened and hardened their legislation until the ban, as have amendments and reforms in the Spanish legislation itself that emphasize the best interests of minors, which has been evident since the Hague Convention. Ladies and gentlemen, as I pointed out at the beginning and as has been stressed in the debate and in this debate, we are dealing with a matter of enormous complexity, but the package of measures that is being adopted this morning would be a reinforcement to help thousands of families on the crooked path towards adoption that public administrations must try to facilitate. I shall vote in favour, Mr President, of this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u207	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Carracedo Verde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u208	President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion that is before us reflects an unusual fact, a mirror of a form of disgovernment. In July 2015, two years ago, laws for the legal protection of minors and the modification of the system for the protection of children and adolescents were adopted. These laws removed some powers from the autonomous communities but did not contain a transitional regime, so they need a regulation indicating which Directorate-General, department or offices of the Central Administration will take over the powers. But they haven't made the rules. And some of the consequences have been presented here today and last week as well. It is basically summarized that families cannot process adoption applications and that organizations accredited for adoption one after another are breaking and the Government, while fully committed to international adoption, does not make the regulations. Citizens bring a motion following a previous GNP, to which my colleague Ana Terrón has tabled amendments, which were accepted, and today we have also tabled some more. The intention of our amendments, in short, is to propose that the adequacy reports on families be subsidized and preferably made by the relevant public body. Complaints about costs are accumulated in some communities. Therefore equal measures also for post-adoption services or with follow-up reports. We have also raised in this motion the creation of a specialized international adoption team. Among its functions will be the assessment of the processes of opening and closing countries, which today rests with the consuls, who tell us that making these kinds of decisions without adequate means is to expose themselves to being held responsible in the future if something goes wrong. So it is not exactly encouraging the opening up of new countries. The minister, insistent, last week used all of her time here to read us the laws passed two years ago, a piece of paper, to make time until the bell rings to be able to return to the seat. An all-rule leak that is normal because trying to explain why a regulation has not been drafted in two years is inexplicable. So he didn't try to explain it, he just referred us to the law. He said we were working and he went to his seat. That's not what they call work in my house, and I think nobody calls it work in anybody's house. So we'd ask him to do his job, to rule. In these two years all the officials of his ministry have gone to work every day. That some technician or technician draft a draft regulation, because the well-being and future of many girls and boys depend on it. It's a serious issue, so you don't have to throw balls out and you have to fulfill the functions of the position. The minister said: this Government and this ministry are fully committed to children. I'm gonna go over it. The second National Strategic Plan for Children and Adolescents, Penia, was completed in 2016. It's been several months and we still don't have an evaluation. I'd tell you, if we're working, please do your job because many children depend on it. The Children's Observatory has not met since November 2015, also two years. Sounds like a bit of a terrible figure. The observatory is a useful tool, full of groups and associations of experts on the problems of children and adoption, who are eager to turn over their proposals and insist that we ask them to summon them. So, please, do your job. It is at stake to design for the future good policies for children by experts on this issue. Children's poverty has been budgeted at 340 million. According to Save the Children, Caritas and Unicef, we have more than three million children at risk of child poverty. This gives a figure of 10 euros per child per month. It does not seem to us to be enough to be able to cope with what is coming to us. The minister said last week: we are working to ensure that no child has to live his childhood in a reception centre. For in order to give him a little push and help, we have introduced an amendment to this motion in which we urge the Government to develop and adopt within three months a planning of measures that it can take to ensure that residential care in juvenile centres is relegated to the subsidiary status, in line with the experts and the law itself from which the minister was born, and read almost entirely last week. Do your job again, minister. We have 16,000 children and adolescents in juvenile centres, about 80 per cent of the children in care are in juvenile centres. It says the regulations that children's centres should preferably go not before the age of three. I got a little shriveled in my soul. I have young children and I am not able to imagine my three-year-old child - less impossible - in a foster care centre, in a youth centre. Of three, four, five or six, I do not know where the capacity and the possibility of attachment development remains. The question would be what concrete measures he intended to take to ensure that no child had to live in a foster care centre. Where are the campaigns to promote family reception? If it were for money here we don't have the figures, because the children's centers cost us, according to all experts, 3000 euros a month for every child. With much less money any family can have technical assistance and psychological support and be with their families, which is where the children should be. In short, this €3,000 per child per month represents a total of €570 million per year, which is well above the 340 million that the Government has budgeted for child poverty. The question here would be whether it would be better to invest in prevention than in cure. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u209	Thank you very much, Mr Carracedo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u210	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion we are debating today is a consequence of the profound transformation that has taken place in Spanish society over the past thirty years and which we must all be proud of, a transformation in which sons and daughters do not necessarily have to look like their parents, but can be of another colour, with torn or round eyes, with curly or smooth hair. Our schools are changing, so are our families. Society as a whole is enriched through adoption. This transformation had a date of origin, on October 19, 1995, the day on which Spanish Television issued a documentary, The Rooms of Death. It described the plight of millions of Chinese girls institutionalized in orphanages in their country of origin who had been abandoned by their families as a result of the State's one-child policy and the secular discrimination of girls and women in Asia. This documentary caused a deep shock in Spanish society, sparked interest in international adoption and shot Spain at the second world position in terms of international adoptions. Now nothing remains of that negative vision of the orphaned child that remained throughout history, the protagonist of a life miserable since its birth by the death of its parents or by having been abandoned and picked up by characters who, in most cases, sought to take advantage of it or her. Neither trace of El Lazarillo de Tormes, nor trace of Oliver Twist, nor trace of Sonia de Crimen y Castigo; the face of adoption in Spain has black, smooth or curly hair, and dark or tanned skin. But since that day in 1995, when Spanish society was shocked by the situation of so many girls, significant changes have been experienced in the international scene that have resulted in the number of children adopted in Spain falling sharply since it reached its peak in 2004. In 2004, 5541 minors arrived in Spain, and ten years later, in 2014, 824, i.e. 855% less. This drastic decline has occurred without any restrictive legislative change on the part of the Spanish State, which clearly indicates that continuing the Spanish legal and administrative process without substantive variation, what has occurred is a change in the situation in the countries of origin of these children. This assessment is reinforced by the fact that the first fifteen countries receiving international adoption in the world, including Spain, adopted 70% less in 2014 than in 2010, according to the figures of a study carried out by Dr. Peter Shelman of the University of New Castle, which was echoed by all Spanish media. [[The lady]] Therefore, by understanding and sharing - as it could not otherwise be - the substance of the question of this motion, the need to give answers to the families that are still waiting after many years for those who already regard their sons and daughters, who are in China, Russia, Ethiopia or Ukraine, we cannot share the criticisms that are made of the management of the Government in this matter since nothing has changed in it since it served as a framework for a very important number of adoptions to date, when that number has been so dramatically reduced. The global quantitative decline has been due to the growing awareness of the damage caused to societies of origin by the march of their children and, in particular, their girls, in the case of China; the improvement of their economic conditions; the negative image of international adoption and of that Government which allows their children to leave the country and the willingness to strengthen national adoption and reception as an alternative to the departure of the children from the country. In addition, the profile of the adoptable child has changed, increasing the number of children with special needs, older than seven years, with some type of disability or illness. In other words, the aspiration of many adoptive families of a healthy baby is no longer fulfilled. Therefore, the number of adoptions has been reduced, the waiting time has been greatly extended but only in that section which corresponds to the processing of the dossier outside our borders. These are the reasons why the adoption process has been extended to reach such painful times for families, but in no case are they attributable to any action by the central Government. The exponential increase in international adoptions in Spain also led to the establishment of a large number of accredited organisations, the ECAI, of which Mrs Reyes provides the information she handles for her inquiry. It is still the same number of ECAI that there was in 2004 as we have in 2016. It is clear that something is happening, because there has to be an adjustment of that number of organizations as the number of adopted boys and girls has changed substantially. I'm done, Madam President. Mrs Reyes, ladies and gentlemen of the proposing group, we have tabled an amendment to your motion which demonstrates our complete agreement with you on almost all the points you raise. We are only making some changes to the wording, for example, of the point concerning the drafting of the regulation, since under the current legislation it is impossible for them to approve it - three months - or to assess access to the funds of the ECAI, since I have already commented to you in what state they are in at the moment. It is our will, like yours, that children who do not have a family but have in advance the affection of their adoptive family in Spain, may, as soon as possible, have that home, the unconditional love of their adoptive parents. My daughter, Claudia Lin Cai, asked me this morning to tell her, to assure her, that this is so. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u211	Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor in the position-setting round by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u212	Thank you, Madam President. Obviously, this is a very sensitive issue where words have to be measured a lot, because sometimes we confuse what we want to achieve with how we want to achieve it. We therefore fully agree from the outset with many of the issues raised by Mrs Reyes in this motion, but there are a number of other issues which, from a methodological point of view, do not seem to me to be the most correct, and some of them have already been referred to by other speakers in this rostrum. You give some data that I will not question, in any case I want to start from a first criterion that has also been said here. First, and on the basis of international conventions, adoption is a measure of protection. The right to adopt is the right of a child to develop in a family environment; it is not the non-existent right of an adult to have a minor in his or her care. We therefore base ourselves on different criteria. You have said that adoption is the right of a child to have parents, but this is not exactly the case: it is the right to have a family environment, an environment above all of protection, and I believe that the great European and international institutions that ensure the rights of the child have as much discretion as we, and even more, to mark these issues. I am sure that, regardless of the things that have been done wrong, they know perfectly well that the priority is the interest of the child, and the public institutions with competence in this area, as can be the deputies in the case of Euskadi, also make it clear. Adoption is therefore equal to protection. And to protect, adoption is not always the mandatory consequence; not all children in need of protection are susceptible to adoption. The motion before you raises an urgent matter. I know that parents who want or feel the need to have a child have an urgent need, but we would have to question whether this urgency is a legislative urgency, an urgency of the State, and in that sense in the initiative they refer to the situation of inoperativeness that is suffocating the normative development of the law. I believe that although this may be a reason, the problem is not solely due to the lack of normative development, but above all to the reality of international adoption and the significant decline in this area. Surely that is one of the main reasons why a situation of inoperability is taking place right now. I believe that adoption should be guaranteed, but there is one issue that no one has raised. If we are interested in the protection of the child, as the other issue develops, why do we not further enhance the systems of foster families? There is much less need for reception, which is not synonymous with adoption. There is much less need for family protection, and there are many families that would host a minor, but surely there are more families that want to adopt than families that want to host. In that regard, we would all have to do an awareness-raising work on what should be done, a subject on which I reiterate once again that there are social policies, as is the case in the case of Euskadi, which are very hard-working, very important and which are to be thanked. Those kids really appreciate it. I therefore agree with the basis of what you put forward, although there is one point I do not agree with so much and I believe that this is one of the most problematic points of the motion that you put forward. I am referring to point 8, concerning the access of the accreditation bodies for adoption to the funds necessary for the exercise of their functions. This point makes clear that they can be financed or subsidized with public money or from public administrations. This is a very controversial issue that has not had the consensus of the autonomous communities or of the public administration as a whole. They have been opposed, since it has been understood that the families who process international adoptions through these entities are the ones who contract their services and pay the established prices. It is true that these bodies often present significant financial difficulties, but it may be necessary to rethink the number of them, if necessary, how many and how many. I'm done. It seems to us that the intentionality of your motion is correct, it is worthy, but there are a number of issues that do not convince us so much. Let us therefore see what we can do, although surely our vote will not be favourable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u213	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u214	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we could agree with a great deal of the rapporteur's diagnosis, which is unaffordable to discourage and hourly, but we are far from the proposals that we are making. We are told that Act No. 26/2015 of 28 July 2015 amending the system for the protection of children and adolescents, a law that is more of a problem than a solution, to which I shall refer later. Let us talk about the rights of children, above and beyond the non-existent right of adults to adoption. The will of adults to adopt is highly respectable, but the best interests of the child are above. The safest and most respectful path to the rights of minors is family care. In Catalonia we are carrying out the design and implementation of a strategic plan to promote family care, first by developing guidelines to ensure the best interests of the child; second, by developing a support plan for foster families; and third, with a campaign to promote, seek and create the culture of care. Too bad it's not the main theme of the motion, which appears almost like a date. Adoption must also be improved, and we agree with that. The waiting list is very long. From 2008 to 2011, the number of applications for adoption has increased significantly. L'Institut Català de l'Acolliment proposed to apply the second additional provision of Decree 127/1997, which provides for the transitional suspension of the processes and evaluation of families, since an important waiting list was accumulated for families declared fit. However, families were able to submit their application on an interim basis. Today, the waiting list for adoptions in Catalonia for families is for eight or ten years. For this reason, consideration is being given to the possibility of a temporary closure of adoption in Catalonia, and work is also being done to update the eligibility criteria established in 1997 for the allocation of children for adoption. This is where we find differences with you. We and you have a very different way of understanding the state. For you, centralism is the solution and for us this is the main problem. The Government of the Spanish State has invaded competences in the field of intercountry adoption. The Board of State Guarantees tells us that this is the case in the accreditation, monitoring and control of collaborating entities for international adoption; and that it is also the case in the opening or closing of international adoption proceedings. Although an interpretative agreement has been reached on this law with the State, by which Catalonia can de facto exercise its powers, we are awaiting, as if it were Franz Kafka's account, to agree with the ministry - attention - how interpretation is interpreted. It is obvious that a State of its own, which a Catalan State would guarantee to continue working normally in the field of international adoption as a central authority, as is recognized by the Hague Convention. On the path you propose to us you will not find us. Health and the Republic. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u215	Thank you very much. Mrs Ferrer Tesoro has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, today I rise to this rostrum with anger, with indignation, with impotence and I wonder whether what we are talking about, discussing and approving really serves something or is a mere process. Today the Citizens' Group brings to plenary a motion on international adoptions; again adoptions. Various initiatives have been put forward both in the Commission and in plenary and measures have been adopted to speed up adoption procedures. What has really progressed? Nothing, absolutely nothing. That produces impotence and indignation, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is not decent; we are talking about children, we are talking about more than 120 million orphaned children in the world, we are talking about 16,000 children in children's centres in our country who are waiting for a dignified life, a family, stability, affection and affection, and who cannot keep waiting for something to be done for them. This situation, which we have not directly provoked, we have an obligation to resolve. We have an ethical and moral duty, because behind the laws, the procedures, the Official State Gazette, are the children, the most vulnerable, those who hope to remain children, play, live, ultimately feel. Nothing further from my intention than to make demagogy or populism on these issues, but, really, at this point, in May 2017, there are no more excuses worth it. We have heard too many excuses throughout these two years of total paralysis of the adoption process: that the number of adoptions has dropped, that the socio-economic context has changed, that the processes are long because they have to be guaranteed with the minor - of course - that a functioning government cannot make regulations, etc. They have been too late, too long being ineffective and incompetent. A year ago they said from their party that the draft regulation was ready. False. The other day the minister told us right here that there is a pre-drinker; I imagine he meant those two leaves that hung quickly before his appearance. False. Nothing has been done; a year in office in which it seems that the potato decree was urgent but not the situation of minors. I read them a sentence: Not all children living in centers are adoptable, but many are and will be now, as soon as the law comes into force. This was said by the previous competent Director General in August 2015. Two years, gentlemen of the People's Party, for something that was to be imminent; two years blank. We are not talking about highways or railways, we are talking about boys and girls, boys and girls who have been waiting two years. It cannot be that they delay him any longer and look elsewhere knowing that there are children who are waiting to live with dignity. It's an injustice that's in your hands to reverse. How much do you think these two years of life affect an orphan child's life? How would they explain to a minor that there is a legislative blockade that prevents him from being with a family? Slowness must be just and necessary to ensure the safety of the child, but not because of the slowness or unwillingness of a Government. In addition to regulatory development, which is absolutely urgent, it is necessary to provide resources for this law. There are already too many examples of laws that are passed and then not equipped with human, economic or material resources. Adoption is not a tool to resolve a legitimate will for parenthood or motherhood, but is a measure of protection for abandoned children, to give content to their right to have a family, and the obligation of the Administration is to provide the child with that family, as set forth in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. The interest of the minor must always prevail. It's not worth coming back here tomorrow from Larra. You, who assume effective and transparent management, cannot continue to endorse the outdated and inoperative practices of other times that Larra also reported. It is unacceptable, for unfair reasons, for many minors that this Government, with inconsistent excuses or excuses, continue to say: come back tomorrow. Come back tomorrow, that we will already facilitate the affection and care of a family; come back tomorrow, that already then we will try a regulation and unlock all the bureaucracy that prevents putting in contact families that want to adopt with children that need those families; come back tomorrow and then we will get the minors out of the orphanages where they live, not always in the best conditions for their development as a person. These minors cannot continue to wait for that distant and uncertain morning, because it is fair to facilitate the well-being of a family life, and their lack of work or inefficiency, when their insensitivity is not making it difficult for them. Maybe tomorrow it's late for many of these minors. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u217	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Reyes Rivera whether her group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u218	Yes, President. Thank you. We accept only the amendment of the United Group We can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-17-CD170517.u219	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until tomorrow, Thursday, at 9 a.m. It was two and forty minutes in the afternoon.
