ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the exclusion from the agenda of this sitting of items 7, 26 and 27, respectively, of the oral question by Mrs Ana María Oramas González-Moro; the urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the policy of the Government with regard to the adoption of measures for the immediate reduction of air pollution and the revision of the energy model; and the urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the development and effective implementation of Law 45/2007 of 13 December on the sustainable development of the rural environment. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The exclusion of reference points is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u2	We began the session with the item on the consideration of proposals for legislation and, in particular, on the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the amendment of Law 17/2006 of 5 June of the State-owned radio and television, in order to regain the independence of the RTVE corporation and pluralism in the parliamentary election of its organs. Mr Camacho Sánchez has the floor for the presentation of the initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been almost five years since the unilateral adoption by the People's Party of Royal Decree 15/2012, which regulated the system of election of the members of the board of directors and its chairman. It is time to take stock of what has happened in the Spanish Radio and Television Corporation, and already advance you, ladies and gentlemen, that is nothing positive. The performance of the People's Party Government in the Spanish Radio and Television Corporation is a paradigmatic example of its conception of politics and the public sector. You do not believe in consensus policies, it bothers you with pluralism and it abhors the independence of the public media. The Spanish Radio and Television Corporation has in the past, with the ruling Socialist Party, reached very reasonable levels of independence, neutrality, pluralism, credibility and sustainability. They destroyed everything from a pen with a royal decree-law, in the opinion of the Socialist Group, clearly unconstitutional; an unacceptable royal decree, whose only mission was to unilaterally change the rules of the game so that the PP would once again have the ferret control of the radio and television of all, to become the radio and television of the People's Party. And if they got it! The only objective of this handshake dressed in reform was to change that carried out by the Zapatero government of election of president and board of directors by a qualified two-thirds majority in the Congress of Deputies and the Senate and to bring it back to the previous situation: election of the highest organ of Spanish Broadcasting by an absolute majority. In short, we must retreat to the control of the government and the parliamentary majority that supports it. They then argued to justify the unwarranted urgency of having no president and being half of the council with the expired term, and argued that socialist reform already provided in the rule for the election by absolute majority. The perspective of time shows that there was no such urgency, that its emergencies were others. In short, the control of Spanish Radiotelevision. In December 2012, they came to power and it took four months to make that reform; there was not much haste. In the end, they appointed a president by absolute majority, one you chose. You didn't change the law to predict the president's vacancy and avoid that situation in the future, no, you just wanted control and go if you exercised it. But it is also that four members of the council have their term expired more than four years ago and you have not yet been in a hurry - to you - for the renewal. Possibly because they have in the current composition of the council a comfortable two-thirds majority. They are not interested in change and less in the current correlation of forces in Parliament; they are concerned that everything remains the same. There's no urgency now. But in addition, when they tortically assert that the reform of the PSOE also included a unlocking clause that allowed the election of the president and councillors by an absolute majority in the second ballot, they hide that this clause allowed only for the first formation of the board of directors, so that it was constituted, but that it was not repeatable. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u4	One second, Mr. Camacho. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u5	You are embedded in your changes by making deaf ears to reality, but reality has changed. When are you guys gonna figure it out? The problem is that with that change you have not only broken the possibility of consensus, you have turned Spanish Radio Television into an advertising appendix of the Government and the consequences have not been expected. All these consequences have been negative for the corporation and for the public service. Not only was the spirit of consensus lost, but the hearings have collapsed. And don't cheat, that you've recovered a few tenths in the last few months doesn't mean that since 2012 the hearings haven't broken down. As credibility, independence and neutrality have been undermined, as the information boards systematically observe and denounce, which the president of the corporation permanently ignores. As well, Article 35 of the framework mandate which obliges the corporation to produce domestic production is not fulfilled, as the representatives of the workers also denounce on a permanent basis. And you try to outsource the services that can be developed precisely by the employees of the Spanish Broadcasting Staff. But there's more. The result of the managers you have chosen with your majority has disappeared the transparency in the corporation. We are about to see, for example, what are the salaries of the members of the senior management of the corporation, what are their variable salaries and with what criteria and objectives have been granted. Since then, they launched the press office in Moncloa, creating a manipulation cabinet as it had never been known. And I'm going to give you the data that, as you can see, is very clumsy. More than 50% of the news directors were relieved to place external contracts; of 47 editorial officials in the corporation, 45 have lost their position; of 138 basic editors, 88 have been displaced outside the news services. Many trains have been lost in digital and technological development; domestic production capacity has been reduced to an extreme and economic sustainability has been jeopardized. Before you arrived there was a practical balance of accounts. Yes, thanks to the Financing Act the revenues earned were similar to expenses; since you arrived - I give you the data but surely you know them - everything has changed. In 2012, 112 million deficits; in 2013, 113 million; in 2014, 134.5 million; in 2015, 34 million and it seems that in 2016 they reach equilibrium. But these last two exercises you know perfectly well that you have traps. In 2015 the VAT was returned since April - about 70 million - and in 2016 not only the year-round VAT was returned - about 90 million - but the revenues derived from the radio charge were implemented by 50 million. You can say that what matters where income comes from, that the important thing is that it comes. And I say to you: Why then has the People's Group been rejecting the PSOE's amendments to the budgets of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation, which every year called for the elimination of VAT and an increase in the rate? [[Applauds]] They only addressed the sustainability of Spanish Radiotelevision when we arrived at an election year to be able to sell what they now sell, that fictitious theoretical balance. They have had the opportunity to change the Financing Act with their absolute majority and have not, but they are tired of criticizing it. You know why? Because they have no alternative or model for Spanish Radiotelevision. The only model they have put in place has been the privatization of services because they simply do not believe in the public, but we do, in their need, in their sustainability and in their independence and neutrality. And that's why, because you don't want to change things and we do, we put forward this bill so that this will change again for good and by the way started in 2006 and conducted until 2012, the best time of the state's public radio and television. This bill is only the beginning, but the election of the president is not enough. We are going to turn your government model towards a plural, independent, transparent, effective, sustainable, modern, technologically advanced project adapted to digital change, credible and, above all, public, even if you do not like this word. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, this is a great opportunity for everyone and primarily a great opportunity for the corporation. I am addressing you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to tell you not to miss this great opportunity, not to stay out because we all have the opportunity to put in place a mechanism that returns plurality and independence to Radio-television. This step alone, I insist, is not enough and we should all give it together, without anyone remaining in the way; the citizens will thank us and the workers of the corporation will be able to carry out their work with all normality. I have already announced to you that if it succeeds - and I hope so - in taking account of this bill, my group plans to table an amendment so that in the event of not getting two thirds for the election of the members of the board of directors and the president of the corporation there will be no blockage by the majority group of the House. I end with a phrase that is not mine but the workers of the house. They say: 'The RTVE Corporation must strengthen its social vocation and become that vital public service space for citizens and essential for the development of democracy and its strengthening'. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u6	Thank you very much. Position-fixing turn. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the orgy of royal decrees laws that occurred throughout the absolute majority of the People's Party with the insane intention of amending Spanish legislation through imposition, one of them was precisely the one to which this proposed law, that Royal Decree-Law 15/2012, with which it was obtained, no more or less, that in something as important, as sensitive as Spanish Radio Television, it could be possible to produce a unilateral election with the exclusive participation of the government of the time. It has been a tremendous democratic anomaly that has had the consequences of all known. This Member who speaks to you the other day had the opportunity to see what the will is to be monitored by the heads of the corporation since in the Joint Congress-Senary Commission we attended a regrettable spectacle in which whatever question was asked to the president of the corporation the answer was always the same. It is a matter that needs to be corrected, and we believe that this bill is working in that direction. I have to point out to you that the information board, which has not been permanently appointed by the management of the corporation, has pointed out such serious things in its annual report as: unjustified interference in the work of professionals, purges, transfers, etc.; inadequate journalistic practices making the information biased in favour of the interests of the government in office; lack of contextualization of sensitive information to avoid problems, such as some that had a certain Minister of the Interior whom you know, etc. This must be corrected because it clearly affects the plurality, the democratic spirit and the interests of the majority of Spanish society. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u8	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group too, Mr Alli has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. It would be advisable, ladies and gentlemen, to open a debate to talk about the role of public broadcasting, in general all, in relation to the cultural, social and political sphere of our country, of Spain; and especially to talk here also, in this Chamber, about the values to be violated: educational values, the search for social cohesion from the very plurality of Spain, and also about freedom, freedoms, also religious, Mr Iglesias. In any case, what is brought here today, ladies and gentlemen, is ultimately the criterion for the distribution of appointments. Ladies and gentlemen, since we are not going to understand that society, outside this Chamber, may suspect that at the end of the day it is the distribution and ideological control of public broadcasting, especially Spanish Broadcasting. Because what has really happened in the last few decades in this country has been something like: as long as you are in La Moncloa, you can ideologically control public broadcasting, which when we arrive we will do the same. [[Supposedly.]] And the rest of you political forces do the same in your communities with the public broadcasts of your communities. I speak in third person because I belong to a party, Unión del Pueblo Navarro, which in the 1980s decided strategically not to provide Navarra with public radio. That has served to save many millions of euros to shipwrecks and also to give me the freedom today to say this and not to use as a political tool a television, as I am sure other political forces here have done or had that pretence. Why don't we discuss, ladies and gentlemen, what public service you really need to provide? Why do we not discuss, ladies and gentlemen, what should be the stable and transparent funding, and in particular give sufficient resources in the territorial centres, in this case Radio Nacional de España and Televisión Española, also, why not, in the Foral Community of Navarra, so that they can do their job perfectly? So this bill we understand is to start the house on the roof. If you are willing to open up the real debate about which public service you must give Spanish Radio-television count on the commitment and effort of the Navarro People's Union. If you don't, don't count on us. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u10	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like someone to think about what would happen if a director of a public television said: I vote for Compromís and I will continue to vote for Compromís, whom I have never voted for or will vote for in my life is the PP. What would you think if a director of a public television said that? They would have put the scream in the sky. They would have torn their clothes, their shirts. We would have had a debate that could not have been sustained. Well, that's what the director general of Spanish Radio Television said. That's what he said; that is, a person who already denotes his independence like this, with two noses. Don José Antonio Sánchez was president of Spanish Radio Television with the only votes of the Popular Party. In 2012 the way of choosing was changed by a decree and it was passed from an agreement that we could all have reached here to the roller; it went from the consensus of a two-thirds majority to the imposition of an absolute majority, and as a related director wanted, they did what they know how to do: enact a decree. Because they couldn't win the game, they changed the rules of the game, they took the ball home, like the big ones. From there, professionals cease; appointments of related people; purges; forty-five of the forty-seven information officers are not in the place they occupied in 2011; many cases of information censored, manipulated, omitted; lack of independence; Venezuela's tiredness, we have ended up in the nostrils of Venezuela, and also the dandruff, of a caspian like José Luis Moreno, who when we did not have it on Canal Nou and closed Canal Nou, you welcomed it on Spanish Television. And most importantly, what hurts me the most: Spanish Television has stopped being a reference for information. In 2011, 40% of the citizens chose Spanish Television, among them me; in 2015, 19%, the same as Canal Nou, I believe. I'm done. José Antonio Sánchez is already a democratic anomaly that needs to be remedied as soon as possible. The country that gave absolute majority to the People's Party no longer exists, has left and will not return. It has gone and will not return, and what you could do today to give a service to democracy, independence and impartiality is to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u12	Thank you very much. Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u13	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. I congratulate you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, on my sincere congratulations. With your proposal, you shield the current president of Spanish Broadcasting, and he knows it and is happy. You made Mariano Rajoy president and today, with your proposal, you shield the inflexible and voter of the People's Party, Mr Sánchez. Applying the proposal as it is, the only force that has veto power is precisely the People's Party, to which you today give the key to curb any proposal that we can agree on for the rest of the parties. So my most sincere and ironic congratulations. Your hasty self-amendment gives me the impression that you have become aware late of the magnitude of the tragedy. Don José Ramón Díez, former director of Spanish Radiotelevision, resigned after statements in which he assured that the current model was old, not useful, not sustainable and also oversized. After these statements it was curiously the representative of the Socialist Group on Spanish Radio-television, Mr Sacaluga, who publicly called for the dismissal of Díez; he asked for his dismissal for statements that I would dare say that today the majority we share. This is Spanish Broadcasting, it is that public television to which your lack of independence has cost you a place in the European Union's Information Committee; it is that tool used by the Government to: one, hide what is a problem for you but which is nothing more than reality in Catalonia; and, two, to detonate too many people from this reality, but this reality will pass over you. Many here criticize TV3, but the difference between TV3 and Spanish Television is that in Catalonia TV3 is ours. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Yes, Our Things]] I conclude by reminding you that the creation of TV3 was an alleged act, there was no legal framework that protected the Generalitat of Catalonia to create it, but created it, and created it despite, for example, Mr.War's threats of closing repeaters. This may cause you to reflect on a current debate on the referendum, a debate that you avoid out of fear, on the pretext of your alleged illegality. Today his cowardice is paid by the spokesman of my group, Francesc Homs, with his disqualification. Thank you, Quico. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u14	For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Pick it up on. The proposed law that the Socialist Party brings us today and which aims to amend a series of articles of the Spanish Radio and Television Act 17/2006 of State ownership, of Spanish Radiotelevision, aims to modify articles that refer exclusively to the form of election of the board of directors of Spanish Radiotelevision and its composition basically. We'd have to go back a little bit into history to see where this comes from and to know where it's going. In the background, we would have liked to have had a debate on public television as a whole, on its functionality, what it serves, what it does not serve, what it is doing, what it is not doing, etc. In any case, at this time the Socialist Party has decided that its objective with the amendment of the law is precisely this, something that also the People's Party at that time modified because it was very interested in modifying. It seems that the Socialist Party and the People's Party - both of them - are interested in how we change the president's election, how we change the councillors' election. All this goes back to the time of Rodriguez Zapatero, when the Socialist Party brought a major change to the law in terms of the organization of Spanish Radio Television, state television, digitization, etc. We were at a time when everything was changing and it brought a law that really changed things. But there was not all the change that we would have liked and it was not because we did not propose amendments, but because at the time there were certain majorities who understood that what was worth was what was worth. Issues such as multilingualism, multiculturalism were not taken into account; everything was organized on the basis of a bipartisan view of politics and also of television. And then, by means of another law, the public television funding system was changed, removing ads and making everything strictly and purely public funding. That said, in 2012 the People's Party arrived and changed this system by means of a decree-law. Obviously my group turned against it, among other things because this is not the way things are done, but the pride and political drunkenness that the absolute majority can give bring this and more; and that was a vervain of decrees and rollers that crushed everything that was going on there. In that sense, it was changed that, instead of two thirds as established by law, an absolute majority was needed in the second round, so that we could understand each other, in order to be able to choose the board of directors. In the face of such a change, I remember when Minister Soria went up to the stand and said the following words: The object of the reform and what the government wants is that there is parliamentary consensus for the election of the council and the president of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation. The election of the president of Spanish Radio Television with this decree will continue to be a parliamentary election. And big applause from the popular bench. We had to settle because, after all, it will be Parliament that will choose it. Now, that there is no consensus? There's an absolute majority, no problem. This way of governing on the basis of a decree has brought us to the present situation. And what is the current situation? The current situation is a disaster; it is a disaster with a dictatorship and ideological control over what television news services are. In the presentation made by President José Antonio Sánchez, after Mr Echenique resigned, to the members of the Spanish Broadcasting Commission, of which I was a member, and was not a court but was a sort of 'explain to us', the day he came did not bring a role and said: I am here, but do I have to explain what the project is? You don't have to. I already know who I am. Why would he present anything if he was to be re-elected by an absolute majority and had already told him what to do? When here the Socialist Party, at another time, presented a bill to repeal Royal Decree 1512 - this was in 2015 - we said that at the time the People's Party put a president with two objectives: to heal the entity economically and to control it informationally; when they had to change, because it did not do one thing or the other and the people met with an election in sight and that had not worked, and that is why they put Mr Sánchez, as equanimous and as plural he, as we all know. In any case, the situation at the moment is horrifying because of the professional freedom of journalists and workers, something that they have all told us and made known to us. Except for the People's Party, we have all shown our solidarity with their situation and the inconsistency that makes everything worse and worse. And when something's worse and it's getting smaller and smaller, in the end it has less audience and it almost disappears. As journalist José María Izquierdo says, it is a sort of self-fulfilling prophecy. In any case, we do not like everything about the change proposed by the Socialist Party and I agree in some way with the spokesman for the PDECAT when he says that if this Parliament needs two thirds for the election of the President, perhaps we will leave Mr Sánchez in his post forever, because, given the picture, that there is a two-thirds coincidence of Parliament, it will be quite complicated. We will take into account that changes require a reduction in advisors and that they are not remunerated, by the way. You here have tabled certain legislative amendments and since you talk so much about how to choose, or have been forgotten or could also have included Article 13.1(d), about how to cease, that if it applies to a two-thirds majority formula for the election, perhaps to cease it in the second round it may also apply to two-thirds. In any case, plurality must be guaranteed, but the truth must be guaranteed, not a bipartisan distribution, as was done at the time, with a consensus like Oliart that we all know how it ended, like the rosary of the dawn, that the cake was divided between two and that, obviously, jumped through the air. We want public broadcasting in the Spanish State to be at the service of all citizens and not at the service of certain ideological issues. We believe that it is important that this can be changed, but not only in the aspects raised by the Socialist Party, but also in others. It will therefore be interesting for you to consider so that we can all include those changes that we consider appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u16	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u17	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We will support the consideration of the Socialist Group's proposed law to restore the independence of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and pluralism in the parliamentary election of its organs. We will do so a little by dragging our feet and doing so under the principle of lesser evil, given the short flight of the reform advocated by the PSOE and in the hope that in its process a true spirit of freedom and plurality inspires the relevant Commission. Tota stone fa wall, we say in my land, and hope must never be lost. Esquerra has been presenting amendments to the articulation of the Spanish Broadcasting Act since time immemorial and we will dedust them and readapt them to the current circumstance. In fact, by dedusting them, I realized that if, when the PSOE adopted this law, it had accepted the amendments that Esquerra Republicana tabled in relation to this point that they propose, today we would not be debating this proposal for a law, rather under the current balance of parliamentary forces than a genuine democratizing intention of the entity. I hope that our amendments will be taken into consideration this time and that we will sing to the sound of the Vesti la Jubba, of the clown, of Leoncavallo. In view of what has been seen, the Spanish TV chats that speak of Catalonia and its emancipation process, where plurality consists of sitting at a table some gentlemen against that process in order to discuss with others very contrary to it, does not make us particularly optimistic and nothing opposes to think that the reform that is being promoted can alleviate it. [[Applauds]] I hope so, if we haven't left before. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u18	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to begin my speech without condemning the fact that while Mr Puigdemont gives lessons in democracy around the world denying democracy in Spain, those who took him to the Presidency of the Generalitat once again storm the seat of a constitutionalist political party in Spain, in a clear warning from his ideal state. [[Applauds]] Today it is a clear example of the good things that lead to the disappearance of the absolute majority. The Spanish deserve good quality, impartial and truthful public media. We must look for a Spanish Radio Television that is free of partyism, vertebrate of the State, speaker of our culture and of the Spanish language. The raison d'être of a state medium of communication is that it is aseptic and reliable. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group is very aware of the need for change that we are discussing today in this House and that is why it has already put forward a bill for a change similar to today's one. It goes without saying that we will vote in favour. The Spaniards do not deserve a Spanish Radio Television that compares a radiant sun with the congress of the government party. The law provided for a strengthened two-thirds majority in the Chambers to elect their board of directors. It was a measure that encouraged plurality and lasted what lasted for the simple majority in Spain. As soon as the People's Party obtained an absolute majority, it removed two thirds in a second round so that they could elect the councillors and the president of the corporation. The return to a system of qualified majority voting will facilitate plural public broadcasting in political, ideological, economic and social terms, a broadcasting that must be a means of serving individual freedom. A few weeks ago a third of the workers signed a manifesto of discontent and in any company that a third of their workers protest in mass is a serious problem. The legislative change in this regard is a clear paradigmatic example of the virtues of the simple majority. The management, in general, of both the PSOE and the People's Party has been very deficient in several respects. Bipartisanism has made Spanish Radiotelevision, on many occasions, an instrument of propaganda. Both formations are responsible for the fall of the audience, both have also been partners in the bad sale of the entity's assets, such as the Estudios Buñuel, to then have to go renting private facilities and equip them with public media because they were not up to the standards our professionals demand. The recruitment of many editors and of few technical staff is evidence of an address at least questionable. There are many voices that denounce excessive outsourcing. A Spanish Radio Television that can't - or tell us that it can't - produce its 60th anniversary gala, has a serious problem. The law establishes two basic rules for the operation of Spanish Broadcasting: the mandate-framework and the programme contract. The mandate-frame is not fulfilled and is so outdated that it does not even contemplate the contents on demand and the contract program, which deals, nothing less, than on the financing of the Spanish Radiotelevision, was never done, neither by the PSOE nor by the PP. Can you imagine a company of these dimensions without a multiannual financing plan? Well, here it is. Another of the deficits is transparency. We need to publish an accessible job report, clarify the salaries of managers, publish the reports of the audit of Finance and a long and opaque et cetera. Television and radio are undergoing unprecedented change. The content on demand in both formats is revolutionizing the industry. The Spanish Radio-television has to adapt with care and, why not, be a pioneer in these lines. The potential of the International Channel is unique because there are about 500 million Spanish speakers, with Spanish as their native language. The possibilities of the chain are unimaginable. The Spanish Broadcasting brand still enjoys prestige, we are in time to solve the situation. Did you know that territorial information is not seen on the new broadcasting platforms? It's another one of the outstanding points. In Europe we have models to look at to see what to do, but we also have models to look at to see what not to do. Some of the Members who today defend this reform worthy belong to political formations of those who want to replace the Constitution by postal codes. Some autonomous televisions, completely intervened, impose xenophobic ideas and are at the service of the grossest and worst brainwashing that has been seen in democracy. [[Applauds]] I was going to say that inspired by Orwellian models but not, because the Great Brother and the Ministry of Truth exercised totalitarianism in an effective and terrifying way. The ETB of the PNV and the TV3 of Catalan secessionism - which is not ours, but the television of the Cosa Nostra - remind more of the style of Rufus T. [[Applauds]] Firefly in Goose soup. Let us ask for free media, free journalists not like-minded to break. Every totalitarian aspires to control the public media and to the closure or intervention of the private, because they know that where the press is free and everyone is able to read, everything is saved. Where's The Key TV, The Man and the Earth and those stories not to sleep - which, by the way, today they rip off on DVD, see when they come out on Blu-ray -? But, above all, where is Freedom TV without anger? [[Rumors]] It is true that there is a lot of work, that there are many challenges, that is not easy, but I do not want to end without giving good news to the citizens who listen to us. There are many meetings that my parliamentary group has had with the staff of Spanish Radio Television, some of whom are present here. [[Applauds]] In all - and this is magnificent news - we received different concerns and sensitivities but I assure you that in all the Spanish Radiotelevision workers ask for only one thing and it is that they let them work, and for that they will always be able to count on the Citizen Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u20	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Vera Ruiz-Herrera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u21	Thank you, Madam President. First and foremost, before delving into the content of this proposal, I would like, for a matter of justice, since none of you have done so so far, to thank the Information Council, the workers and the Spanish Broadcasting Workers, for you are the ones who carry out the information in this country every day. [[Applauds]] I would also like to name the professionalism of all the journalists, the editors and the editors, the cameras, the directors and the directors, the producers and the producers, the sound technicians, the fellows and the fellows and, finally, of all the teams that you are keeping alive public television, even though they are making it very difficult for you. Thank you, on behalf of our parliamentary group, for going out on the street to report that you are being forced to manipulate, for locking you even in the writings to say so and for throwing us all out of our ears with constant pressure to get us to agree. Thank you all very much. [[Applauds]] Two weeks ago, at the first meeting of the Spanish Joint Radio-television Control Commission - by the way, the People's Party took fifteen months to convene it and we still don't understand very well why - we asked a very direct question to the current president of the corporation, Mr Sánchez, about what measures they were going to take to guarantee the independence of Spanish Radio-television. More direct, more precise and with less shame was his answer, exactly the same one Mariano Rajoy gives when asked about this question: Well, look, none, because in Spanish Radio Television there is no lack of independence. I don't know if so far you live in a parallel world or directly think - which I think is what happens - that people are silly, but here none of you suck your finger already. We all know the current miseries of Spanish Radiotelevision. We all know that what should be a public service you have been systematically turning into a tool for political propaganda of the bad and cheap of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] We all know that there is political control in the writings, that there are pressures, that there is manipulation, that there is misinformation and all that is loading the hearings to unsuspected levels and making people stop feeling like their own a public service they are paying for. Less than a month ago the Information Council had to come up with a torch that collected more than 2,100 workers from the house, asking that, please, we change among all a law that is doing only asphyxiating them professionally. Despite the differences that we can have in the debate and in the proposals, all I ask you to do is not go up here in your turn to fool us, the workers and the people who are at home saying that there is no lack of independence on Spanish Broadcasting. Please don't be so embarrassed. We know - and so do you - where the problem comes from. It's coming from behind and we've got it pretty clear. It comes from when you changed the law in 2012 to be able to name in solitary and finger - although it bothers you so much that we say it always, to your finger - a president of the corporation who currently has no hair in his tongue to declare in parliamentary office and in front of people in public that he is a consecrated voter of the People's Party, when he is telling the Council of Europe that this cannot be done by being president of an independent entity. But that's not the worst. You changed the law to put as president of the corporation a person with a curriculum that puts the hair at the top, a person who has on his back the responsibility of having outsourced, privatized, manipulated and censored, loading the hearings and leaving 80% of Telemadrid's staff on the street. [[Applauds]] They have no shame at all. Those workers today still have to be on the streets claiming their labour rights and also in the courts. They changed the law to put a wolf to take care of the chickens. Although they do not want to admit that parliamentary representation has changed and that this country has changed, we say so already. We will not allow it, they will not be able to continue doing with our Spanish Radio Television - and I say it as a journalist too - what gives them the fucking win. [[Applauds]] We know what began to happen when the first president arrived and then Sanchez to Spanish Radio Television. The reforms are here. What was the first thing he did when he arrived? Start cutting heads. The first ones we all know and I will quote some famous names, for example, Ana Pastor and Juan Ramón Lucas. Then the political purge process went on and 95 per cent of journalists were removed from their editorial positions, to such an extent that today only one out of every three journalists remains in their original posts. In the end, for what? So to put his colleagues who had just broken up the audience on public television and brought close colleagues from private media, most of them from La Razón. The only good news is Mr. Paco Marhuenda, who's going to be the only one who's going to live through all this. [[Applauds]] The second thing that happened was that what we were talking about, censorship, manipulation, misinformation and political propaganda began to happen. You do not even hold the Council responsible, and we do not say so, international entities, such as the European Federation of Journalists or the Council of Europe. Look at the chillingness of the matter, only in the year 2016 the Information Council had to make fifty reports naming one by one the cases of bad practices within the newspapers that, by not putting myself to name them all and being here until the next morning, is summed up in a very simple thing, praise your policies, the policies of the People's Party and none of the other political formations - nor do I get into how we are treated by Podemos and the 5 million people we have behind - and, in the end, leave out of the media agenda issues that are - and this is the most serious - of relevance to civil society, which have mostly to do with social protests, with demonstrations, with the crisis, with cuts, with precariousness and with employment data. [[Applauds]] Let them explain to me, as a journalist that I am, what editorial board of a public television can consider that protests against macho violence do not have to be contemplated on public television, let them tell me why protests against the refugee crisis and its management stay out of the news on Spanish Television. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] In order to finish - for your sake - I am addressing the Socialist Group's ladies and gentlemen. [[Rumors.-Mr.Hernando Fraile: Go on, go on!]] It is clear that out of respect for the Information Council and what the workers want, we will support it because we do not want to block anything to bring us any medal, which is what you usually do. We are going to support you with all humility, but you know exactly as we do that this proposal is absolutely caught as you have brought it today. If you really want to make a change beyond taking a medal and saying that you have brought the change - that change, that kind of romanticism that you have anchored in Zapatero's law as if there is nothing yet to change - let's go a little further and let's say that it doesn't just have to have a unlocking mechanism, as already acknowledged by the Lord who defended the proposal - and I'm done -. I am grateful that you have acknowledged this, but also the president has to present himself by public tender and with a contract and a future project for Spanish Television. I am sure that if we do not do so, we will continue to experience what has happened so far, manipulation, censorship, lack of transparency and that contracts be awarded to José Luis Moreno, who will be awarded all the programs, who in the end is a person who also appears - oh chance!- in the papers of Bárcenas, showing that even the show is within that plot that operates outside and within the institutions to continue living at the expense of all of us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u22	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u23	I'm done. Nothing more. Thank you so much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party. We can-In Comú Ponde-In Marea, stand up.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u24	Quiet. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreno Bustos has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you all to remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u25	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin by thanking Mr Díaz for his words of solidarity with the People's Party, and more after the totalitarian and Stalinist assault on our headquarters in Barcelona, which some people so much like to flaunt. [[Applauds]] Madam President, after the political rally, the show, the show we get used to by the few people, we're going to go seriously. By the way, Mrs Podemos's spokesperson, who says the journalists are threatening them is not the People's Group, huh? [[Applauds]] Those who threaten to beat up other journalists are you, don't forget, don't forget! But well, let's be serious, not the show or the political rally. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group is going to support the consideration of this proposal for a law of the Socialist Group, and it is going to do so out of consistency with the political responsibility that we have always held in this area. I will begin by warning you that we agree with the objective of reaching two thirds for the election of the Board of Directors of Spanish Broadcasting, and I will explain myself. Law 17/2006 on State-owned radio and television established, in effect, a strengthened majority for that election. However, a transitional provision, admitted as a plan B, was included in the parliamentary process of the bill in the Senate, which raised the possibility of electing the Spanish Broadcasting Council by an absolute majority if no agreement was reached within two months. This amendment, which was of the Catalan Entesa, and another identical amendment, of the United Left, enthusiastically supported by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, introduced this option, justifying it in the fact of avoiding a possible blockade, undesirable and very harmful to the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation. Today it seems that we also return to the same arguments, as Mr Camacho said. In January 2007 and November 2009, the People's Parliamentary Group, then in the opposition, added political responsibility to its support to achieve the two-thirds required in the election of the presidents of the Broadcasting Corporation. In July 2011 he resigned the second president and it was no longer possible to find the required agreement. It would not make much sense at this point to point out, unless someone is committed to distorting the facts - there is always, and today we have been able to verify - to whom he prevented or to whom he showed more or less expertise or capacity for the agreement. In any case, from that moment on history is well known to all. Nine months after that resignation, although for the Socialist Party nine months seem to be nothing, the board of directors had three vacancies, including that of the president, and five of its members had exhausted the time for which they were elected. An interim and rotating presidency could not assume the exercise in functions that are basic and indispensable for the good and effective governance of the corporation, as evidenced by the reports of the State Advocate. Out of responsibility for this so critical and delicate situation that it extended without the slightest hint of solution, the Government adopted a royal decree-law at the end of April 2012, reiterating the desired objective of achieving two thirds of Parliament for the election of the vacancies of the board of directors, but admitting recourse to the absolute majority if that objective was not possible. This prevented irreparable consequences for Spanish Radiotelevision. It was not a whim, I assure you, of the government nor an arbitrary decision; it was not an artefact maneuver to lower the democratic bar on Spanish Radiotelevision, and whoever says otherwise simply lies, so clear. It was a real necessity, an imperative and indispensable exit when all the doors are closed, time passes heavily and the damage can become enormous. Finally, in October 2014 it was possible to replace the president of the corporation in a very reasonable time and without causing any harm to the management of Spanish Radiotelevision. This, and not another twisted story, interested or distorted, is reality. Ladies and gentlemen, paradoxically, what was a certain tool, fundamental, came to say some parliamentarian, to avoid a circumstantial parliamentary blockade in 2006, became in 2012 the mother of all evils. What had changed? In plain sight, only that the Government was another and the opposition was also different. Today, with the same responsibility, we reaffirm once again the desirability of reaching a broad consensus, translated into two thirds of the House, for the election of the future Board of Directors of Spanish Broadcasting. We return for responsibility and political convictions to defend the purpose of reaching two thirds, which is a desirable and positive endeavour. But it must also be warned, and more so after listening to some parliamentary spokesmen, that the election by the greatest possible consensus will not in itself solve current problems, such as unstable financing, which others created, let alone be the argument in which to seek refuge in order to return to the trench of the soniquete interested and false of manipulation. When some people talk about recovering - and this text says something about it - I wonder: Recovering what? Retrieve who? Recovering the worst and blackest years of public television? There's nothing to recover, ladies and gentlemen. Independence, plurality and objectivity are fully guaranteed at this time. You don't have to get them back. No, ladies and gentlemen, that should not be the intention, and the less we will recognize that the return to the past is the return to independence, plurality and truthfulness, simply because it is not. I am one of those who believe that if two want there is an agreement, the agreement happens; if three want an agreement, the agreement happens; but if one doesn't want it, of course it doesn't, then said the Vice-President of the Government, on April 6, 2006, in the Senate. We think exactly the same thing then and now. We do not now want to rebut judgments of value, crazy conclusions, such as those we have heard, erroneous descriptions or analyses which, rather disproportionately, nothing constructive and lacking in realism, are included in the statement of reasons for the proposed law, some of which have already been denied by the course of time itself. It will be an opportunity to discuss these issues and the true influence or significance that a strengthened majority choice has on the ordinary functioning of a public body such as Spanish Broadcasting, because the history of the past ten years offers many prisms and accumulates many elements of examination and discussion. Ladies and gentlemen - I conclude, Madam President - in order to begin the task with the best will to complete it successfully, our parliamentary group will support the consideration of this bill, but I would like to make it very clear and to warn you that if we turn it into a bold weapon to pursue only some wear or attack on the government, we will have wasted our time miserablely. If we use it as a great opportunity to build solid agreements that value the formidable public service that Radiotelevision Española provides, we will have effectively fulfilled our political responsibility. That and not another is our position. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u26	Thank you very much. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, OF THE RIGHTS AND GUARANTEE OF THE DignITY OF PERSONS BEFORE THE FINAL PROCESS OF THEIR LIFE. [[File number 122/000051]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u27	We now discuss the proposal for a law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the rights and guarantees of the dignity of the person before the final process of his or her life. Mr Igea Arisketa has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the presence in the Chamber of several patient associations: the Spanish Association Against Cancer, the Spanish Association of Lateral Sclerosis, the Platform of Patient Organizations, the Spanish Patient Forum and the General Alliance of Patients, because it is for whom you represent, for whom we bring this law here today. [[Applauds]] If there is a priority in health policy and a priority in citizens' health policy it is and will always end the suffering of our patients. I would also like to thank the presence of the College Medical Organization and the Spanish Palliative Care Society, which will ultimately be responsible for carrying out this policy. [[Applauds]] I would not like to start by thanking only those present, I would like to remind some absentees; patients whose courage and determination has made this legal progress possible. Patients like Immaculate Echevarría, who in 2007, with a muscular dystrophy, fought to be disconnected from a breather who kept her alive with a progressive and irreversible disease, and who generated the debate that gave rise to the first law of dignified death in Andalusia, whose rapporteur, Rosario Díez, a socialist parliamentarian, also want to remember here today. This is a success of all; a success of the incremental policy that began in Andalusia and has already traveled eight autonomous communities, ending up in the Autonomous Community of Madrid, where José Manuel Freire and Daniel Álvarez - who also accompanies us here today - were rapporteurs of the last law adopted a few weeks ago. Thanks to all of them we are here today, because we believe that effective policy is incremental policy, it is agreement policy. The useful policy is not to raise flags, it is not to stir passions; it is to work for the hundreds of thousands of patients in our country to notice real and effective improvements. That is the useful policy and not the confrontation. [[Applauds]] Why is this law necessary? It is necessary because we defend the equality of all Spaniards, also to die. The Spaniards can't be unequal, even to die. We want a country of free and equals from birth to the day of our death and that is why we need a basic law, a law that protects all those who are not yet covered by an autonomous law and all those who are still covered by an autonomous law are not guaranteed compliance with what they already have. Besides, it is and remains a necessity. More than 50,000 patients a year die without quality palliative care because unfortunately there is still therapeutic bleeding, there are still those who believe that they can impose pain on their patients because of their beliefs. Unfortunately, in our profession there are still those who think that you can hide the information from their patients, which is a drama that condemns them not to be able to dispose of the most precious good we have, which is our time, the time to say goodbye, the time to embrace us. There is no right to hide information from our patients if they do not want it that way. I'll give you some data to put in the cold numbers the reality of the things that happen. In recent studies collected by Abel Novoa on the platform 'Not healthy', as recently as March 21, we are informed that 36% of cancer patients still receive chemotherapy in the last six months of their life, but that 25% of them continue to receive chemotherapy in the last month of their life. According to a study in the New England Journal of Medicine, 71% of patients with advanced stage IV lung or colon cancer continue to believe that chemotherapy can cure them. In Spain there are 28,000 patients who continue to receive chemotherapy in the last month of their life. We wonder why it is so, do we increase survival, improve quality of life, die better? To all three questions the answer is no. We know that we do not increase survival if we delay palliative care. We know that we do not improve the quality of life because they are sick who die with neuropathy, with fatigue, with cramps, with vomiting, with ulcers in the mouth. We know that they don't die better either, that they are ten times more likely to receive a cardiopulmonary resuscitation, five times more likely to die in an ICU, and ten times more likely not to die at home. All this happens every day in the hospitals of our country. Last Friday, after the session we had here, I received a message from a companion, from a nurse from the plant where I work, who told me: after hearing you the other day, I spent the whole night asking a doctor to come and put a half ampoule ofmorphic chloride on a patient who was running out of breath. This happens every day, every day in our hospitals. That's why we need a law like this. I will summarise briefly the characteristics of the law we propose. In Title I we talk about rights: the right to information, the right to have information be prompt; the right when a patient is informed that he or she has a serious diagnosis and that his or her life is in danger in the medium or long term, to make decisions at that time and to make a vital will with prior instructions. We also guarantee the right not to use the state of therapeutic necessity to perform maneuvers or treatments not authorized by patients, except those limited to relieve symptoms or pain. We also guarantee the rejection of treatment, including life support measures; no one will ever have to go back to court as Andrea's parents had to do just two years ago to ask, after fighting with his pediatrician, for a nasogastric tube to be removed. We also ensure that there will be quality palliative care, that there will be sedation at the end of our days to relieve pain, but not only to relieve pain, but to relieve every symptom that causes unbearable discomfort to patients. Pain, vomiting, dyspnea, headache, convulsions, all these things have to end, as well as mechanical attachments. We must recognize the right to family and spiritual accompaniment of our patients and also recognize their right, the sacred right, to privacy in their last days. In our Title II we include the duties of health personnel, which is to ensure this information, avoid bleeding and ensure respect for the convictions of patients, refraining from imposing their own. Ensure that we avoid prolonging agony in patients without sedation by eliminating any treatment that is not used simply to control symptoms. In our Title III we talk about the guarantees that the care centers must collect: to ensure that there will be no restriction on visits, that the family and caregivers will be supported, that we will advise them in palliative care, that they will have an individual room, that the ethics committees will serve to fulfill the will of the patients. In our Title IV, which is very important to us and which marks part of the differences, we point out what are very serious infringements. For us will be very serious violations, and will be punished, all those that hinder or impede the rights contained in Title I of our law. We also have an additional provision that I would like to point out. The third additional provision indicates that an assessment of law enforcement will be made. Because in Spain it is very easily legislated and the law is more easily breached. We want the Ministry of Health to be the guarantor of compliance with this law, to draw up a list of indicators and to periodically assess the compliance and scope of our law. All these things contain our law. Many of them are already known, we know that the world did not start when we arrived in the Chamber, we know that since 1978 many good things have been done here for this country. We just want to contribute a little bit more, call for agreement, call for consensus and make policy useful to our citizens. [[Applauds]] I would like to end by thanking all those patients to whom I have had the luxury and pleasure to accompany in their last moments, who have taught me the value of time, the value of life and the value of hugs. And I wouldn't want to end a day like today without quoting Miguel Hernández, one of our great poets. Today, 75 years ago, he died in the prison of Alicante, a tuberculosis patient and a victim of intolerance. In one of his most famous poems he says so: 'Here I am to live / while the soul sounds, / and here I am to die, / when the hour comes to me, / in the veneros of the village / from now on and from forever. / Several drinks is life / and one drink is death'. Ladies and gentlemen, let this last drink, our last drink, the last drink of our citizens, be as bitter as possible. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u29	At the time of the fixing of positions, I have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Salvador Armendáriz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u30	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin by congratulating both Dr. Igea and Mrs. Cortés on her interventions last week in this rostrum. I believe that your reasons and arguments help us to face this debate with balance, with common sense, with respect and also with humanity. Two very brief ideas. I, ladies and gentlemen, do not believe that the right of personal self-determination can do anything, that it is an absolute, that one has the right to decide everything. Because if we really really talk about rights these must have limits and, most likely, in their respective exercises impose correlative duties on oneself and also on others. Secondly, and on the other hand, dignity is a nuclear attribute of people. We are obliged to improve the living conditions of the whole world. But if we decide that dignity is in the conditions in which a person lives and not in the person itself, we could conclude that some lives are not really worthy of being lived and therefore of being protected and loved, and that would lead us to a very dangerous slope. In any case, we think on this issue, first, that to legislate by adapting the law to the exception and not to the general rule would be a mistake. Secondly, we do not believe that there is a human right to harm or to renounce freedom or self-harm, to die or to help suicide. And, third, that facing a complex situation, when it is difficult, by the way of admitting, even with good eyes, assisted suicide - that is, that in the face of a person with a problem, we eliminate the person - because it is a change of moral, vital and collective attitude that, as I say, leads us to a very slippery slope, because it will cause the confidence in the doctor-patient relationship to be resented and worsened and it will probably cause the victims of euthanasia to be those with less resources and, of course, we will not be able to continue calling ourselves a welfare society. In Navarre we have a law that is a twin sister, adopted unanimously in 2011 and in line with the vote that we gave in its day to this similar but foral norm, we will give our yes to this consideration and, in any case, we reserve the right to present the amendments that we believe to be appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u31	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, as Miguel Hernández said, of whom today marks the 75th anniversary of his death: 'Your laughter makes me free,' he puts me wings. / Soledads takes me away, / jail takes me away. When we talk about dignified death we are also talking about life and freedom; we are talking about the right to autonomy of people, free to decide on how and when they want it to be the end of their lives; we are also talking about the dignity of the patient to choose if he wants to die in an assisted way, surrounded by his own, freely and without pain, because it is not always necessary to extend life to the extreme, to exhaustion, stretching the suffering of those who suffer from terminal or incurable disease. Palliative care begins when healing is no longer possible. It is at that time when a change of attitude is needed on the part of the people who care for the sick; it is there when psychological, social and spiritual support is needed most; the accompaniment to the end of life; solidarity; compassion for the suffering of the other; shared vulnerability; and the social commitment not to prolong irreversible situations for longer, if that is as the person concerned wishes. The debate that we have now is actually about the same issue that we were dealing with last week when we were discussing the decriminalization of euthanasia. We talk then and now we talk about personal autonomy. It has taken many centuries and many efforts to bring people's freedom to this point. We have been robbed of the ability to decide from some distorted interpretations - and I stress this, distorted - of the faith carried out by strict priests, some, members of established religions and others who spoke of medicine, of science, as if it were a devout religion of a god who also demands sacrifices from his subjects. We do not understand that the proposing group, Citizens, abstained last week in the proposal on euthanasia - we think it lacked political courage; neither did other groups - and now bring us this text. A comprehensive consideration of the problem must be made. In Compromís we will vote yes to take account of your proposal and amend it. Of course, we will not let this problem end up being solved also with a regulation of euthanasia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u33	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Ciuro i Buldó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. From the Democratic Party we will not endorse with our votes this initiative more than nothing because it has a very serious technical problem as it is cataloguing it as a law of bases. I'm sure you knew what our position on it would be. You know, Mr Igea, that in Catalonia, together with other nations, we have exclusive competence in this matter and we exercise them; we have competence in regulating the autonomy of the patient, in matters of anticipated wills, and we did so with a pioneering law throughout the Spanish State. We have competences and exercise them in end-of-life care and rights, and ultimately in ensuring quality health care in the final periods of people's lives. Therefore, we do not like this proposition of law, we do not like anything. Today through the manipulation of the division of competence you, qualifying this proposal as a basic law, intend to dismantle this competence and its exercise, which is what is attributed to the autonomous community by its status of autonomy and by the Constitution, which is its Constitution. It seems to us a very serious technical error. That noble will that you say you have is twisted by the fact that you present a basic law, and moreover to you has betrayed the subconscious, because you know that a basic law does not have this prolific regulatory development - I dare say - of each and every one of the assumptions. A basic law by definition is a law that establishes a framework, general parameters so that later they can be developed by the autonomous communities and you know that, but you have called it basic. I tell you that you will not have our vote in favour of dealing with this bill, we will put forward the necessary amendments because we do not object to those communities that do not have effective regulation for this purpose being able to have it, but never as a basic law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u35	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u36	Thank you, Madam President. We could do a legal debate here today, which is what we are supposed to be as legislators who we are, or we can make a kind of argument about what we are each capable of empathizing with, how many feelings we each have, to what extent we can be merciful, etc. Precisely last week the Citizen's rapporteur blamed one of the groups for this when he told them that they did not have the patent of mercy or something similar. But we are not going to make a contest of feelings, we are going to have a debate about what is ours, which is a legal debate, because I am not going to repeat the debate about what I talked about last week, nor am I going to talk about what everyone thinks or what I think about what is the end of life, the dignity of people, even though everyone here comes up and talks about what they want; I am going to focus on debating or contributing to the bill that the Citizens Group has brought to the House. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group has submitted a proposal for a law on the rights and guarantees of the dignity of the person before the final process of his life, and says that it has as its objective to regulate explicitly and concisely the rights of persons facing the final process of life, as well as the duties of health personnel, etc. In conclusion, this bill comes to legislate what is already legislated and does not go into what is not legislated. Last week in the debate that we actually had we were able to agree or not, to have positions in favour or against totally legitimate, but what was raised was for this House, which was the change of a specific article for decriminalization in the Criminal Code of euthanasia, assisted suicide, etc. But, gentlemen of Citizens, you raise this proposal for a law as basic legislation in accordance with Article 149.1.1a of the Constitution - of course - which confers on the State exclusive competence for the regulation of the basic conditions guaranteeing equality, blah, blah, blah. You say that the purpose of this proposed law, as expressed in your article, is to regulate the exercise of these rights and that the inspiring basic principles are the guarantee of full respect for the right to full dignity, the promotion of freedom, the guarantee of the rejection of treatment by will, the guarantee of the right of all persons to receive palliative care, effective equality, and the guarantee of personalized health care. And they also talk about the rights of these people when they are in the last trance of their lives: the right to information, the right to decision-making, the right to grant; everyone who has read the proposition knows it. And you will say: are you not, like us, in favour of those rights? Of course, more would be needed if we were not in favour of those rights. We are so in favour that we have legislated that precisely because we are in favour; moreover, we did it because no one had done it. [[The Lord]] Therefore, despite what is expressly stated in the preamble to this proposal for a law, it is clear from the simple reading of this text that your claim goes beyond the establishment of a basis for further normative development by the Autonomous Communities. If we take a simple look at the regulation currently in force, we can see that Law 14/1986, General of Health, and Law 41/2002, which regulates the patient's agreement, have already covered almost everything you propose in this law, and these rules in their status as basic state legislation, which is the basic one, that, have served for the peaceful development in the autonomous communities of various regulations on the individual. Act No. 11/2016 of 8 July 2016 of the Basque Parliament, guaranteeing the rights and dignity of persons in the final process of their lives, as well as Act No. 7/2002 of 12 December 2002 of the Anticipated Wills, for example, in Euskadi, covers all these issues. Let us say, then, that this motion for a law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group literally copies various sections of the basic law, so literally that some issues are accurate. I could quote, in particular, articles. The text presented by you incorrectly omits the origin of these cited laws, thus highlighting the task of negligent copying and mere automatic repetition in the same as other texts in force in autonomous areas. For example, Act No. 5/2003, on the declaration of early life will of the Parliament of Andalusia. Why do they not have the humility to say, at least, that the text they have brought out of other existing texts? You haven't brought anything! [[Applauds]] On the other hand, the level of regulatory detail of this proposal exceeds what has to be a basic law and, consequently, exceeds the scope of state competence for its approval, being reflected in different sections of your text, where you even come to say that by basic law there can actually be an individual room or that the patients can wear clothes from their home, which seems to me very well, but that is not regulated in a basic law, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens. [[Applauds]] In any case - and I have little time left - apart from the excessive regulation that you propose, you attribute to the General Administration of the State, to the Ministry of Health, the task of establishing the maximum dissemination of the law between health professionals and citizens in general, as well as promoting among themselves the realization of the document of prior instructions. You give the ministry what does not belong to it and, more importantly, the autonomous communities that are already functioning with similar laws, are already doing so. In conclusion, since I do not have time - one minute, Mr President - it can be maintained that this proposal for a law on guarantees and rights of the dignity of the person before the final process of life is legally unnecessary because that is already legislated. It is totally excessive in its regulation because it reaches the limits to which a basic law is not to reach. Finally, it is carrying out a notorious invasion of the competence of the Autonomous Communities in the area of health. Consequently, this proposal for a law can only be described as a exploitation of the proposing parliamentary group in order to appear as a precursor to something that is already being applied in practically the entire Spanish State through a system more in line with the competition distribution, all of which has a clear centralizing vocation. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u37	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u38	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Igea, today we are discussing the consideration of a proposal for a law on the rights and guarantees of the dignity of the person before the final process of his life. Between the presentation made by the spokesman for Citizens and the content of the law, there is obviously an eternity; and there is an eternity because, as previously pointed out, this proposal of law is basically a health law and, on the other hand, it is also a law of bases that has a level of interference in both the medical and the competition field. There is also a real discrepancy between the statement of reasons for the law and what the law says. Paragraph 3 of the explanatory memorandum seeks, for example, to extend the rights of persons residing in our country, without prejudice to the additional or development elements introduced by the relevant autonomous system. The additional provisions say more about the explanatory statement and go beyond the competencies that a basic law should have. Paragraph 2 of point 3 provides a concise and precise regulation of the rights of persons in the final process of their lives, as well as of the duties of health personnel and the guarantees of health centres and institutions in order to give effect to such rights. Obviously, he said that he did so in line with the General Health Act and the Act regulating patient autonomy and rights and obligations in the area of clinical information and documentation. Well, for Esquerra Republicana and for this spokesman it is incomprehensible that you, Citizens, who define themselves as liberals, are incapable of defending the full freedom of the person, personal autonomy and the right to decide of the people. For Esquerra Republicana, the proposal for a law that should already be in the process of amendments is the proposal for an organic law that was discussed in the previous plenary, which spoke of the regulation of euthanasia and assisted medical suicide, understood such concepts as the full exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms, the full exercise of the will, full freedom, as stated in the previous plenary, to deal with how we want to live life and how we want to die, how we want this process to be at the end of our lives. This is the true exercise of inherent personality rights and all else is to exercise in the wire to avoid talking about what citizens have been asking us for for a long time, and if they do not consult the CIS. 80% of people are in favour of regulating euthanasia. Republican Left is not going to give up this debate. I insist, we will not give up this debate, but we will bring it as many times as necessary. By the way, we will have a new opportunity to discuss the decriminalization of euthanasia and its regulation when the proposed law of the Catalan Parliament comes to this House. It is not necessary to recall - it is good to do so - that the regulation contained in this proposal of law, as some spokesman pointed out, in Catalonia already exists, although, obviously, not with the degree of interference that this proposal of law implies in the medical intervention or of the health personnel; I would like as an example the interference that is contemplated in article 11 of this proposal of law in the matter of the rights of the patient, guarantee of the dignity of the person in the final process of his life. In Catalonia we have, as I said, our own legislation on patients' rights, a document of anticipated wills and palliative cures, as well as the elaboration in force - which was also amended in 2015 - of the Charter of Rights and Duties of Citizenship in relation to health and health care. That is why Esquerra Republicana says that we need a State that guarantees the full development of the personality, the full exercise of the rights and freedoms of the person, the right to decide, the autonomy of the will. We are not talking about flags, borders or anthems, but about rights and exercise of these rights. As it cannot be otherwise, this proposal of law worries us coming from who comes, Citizens, with their sick obsession to pursue the limitation of the right to decide, in this case of the people, but also with that manifest, clear and decisive will that they have to limit self-government, especially Catalan. I will not deny you, of course, that this proposal for a law comes to cover the deficit that the State has - which is very, very true - in those aspects concerning respect for the dignity of the person and the improvement of the quality of health care. This law, as I have already said, does not guarantee the full exercise of personal autonomy, nor does it guarantee personal or individual freedom. Even so, Esquerra Republicana is and will always be in solidarity with the Spanish and Spanish, and since the Spanish state has deficits in this sense, I repeat, we will abstain in this proposal of law that presents Citizens. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u39	Thank you very much, Mrs. Capella. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs García Sempere has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to take a little tour of how we made the bill we brought in last week. [[The lady]] On December 1, we presented in press that the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea began a process of meetings with various collectives and specialists for the drafting of a law that decriminalized and regulated euthanasia and assisted drug suicide. Look at what a coincidence that on December 2 Citizens recorded the proposed law that brings today for consideration and debate. Meanwhile, we followed our pace and for the drafting of the bill - the one presented here last week we had meetings for three months with an external working group of about twenty people. They were part of this working group of professors of the Observatory of Bioethics i Dret of the University of Barcelona, professors of law of the University of Alicante and of the Group of Studies of Criminal Policy, members of the Union of Prosecutors and of the Andalusian School of Public Health, the director of the Fundació Víctor Grífols, philosophers of the CSIC, president and director of the Association right to die dignifiedly, doctors, nurses, psychologists, palliativeists, sociologists and a long et cetera. After the marathon working days in which we discussed, among other matters, national and international legislation, we finally recorded - quite later than you, of course - our proposal for a law in mid-January. They were weeks of fruitful work, in which we had the data that told us that 84% of the Spanish population supported such a law and with the formal request of up to seven autonomous parliaments asking Congress to decriminalize euthanasia, by the way, with the votes of the socialist parliamentary groups of those autonomous communities. We knew the points in our proposal that were potentially sensitive, but we understood - and we raised this last week - that these points could be discussed during the parliamentary procedure. You, Citizens, People's Party and Socialist Party, refused to open it, and here we are a week later, after that veto, with this bill that you, Lords of Citizens, bring us today. The first thing my group wants to clarify is that the word euthanasia does not appear in the text, they do not decriminalize it. Therefore, for us - as other groups have already commented - to refer to this proposed law as a law that guarantees the dignity of the person at the end of life is not correct. Dignity of death is not guaranteed with the approval of this law and will continue to die badly in Spain. We said it last week and we will continue to say it: if there is no law of euthanasia, it will continue to die badly. The second thing we want to say is that it contributes virtually nothing to what already exists. It is limited to transposing into state law the autonomous laws in force, which have already been implemented in our country since the Andalusian law of 2010. Does that ring a bell, gentlemen of the Socialist Party? We are afraid that the only new thing is that they try to usurp autonomous skills, as other colleagues have commented before me. So far, nine autonomous communities have this type of law. These dignified death laws, similar to what you bring, do not cause an increase in the number of vital wills, it is not true; they do not improve or enlarge palliative care per se and fail to significantly reduce suffering by dying in our country. Therefore, frankly, for us it is a law at least insufficient. Despite the fact that it is good to strengthen the guarantees of patients and doctors - in that we agree - neither palliative care nor the rights of access to them nor the conditions that make them up - training, decision, provision and quality - need laws, need fundamentally resources, and support the Government of the cuts as you, gentlemen of Citizens, do much doubt that this is the best way to achieve more resources to achieve a more dignified death. And not only do we say this, because the need for strong public investment in health is also raised by The Economist and the Link Foundation in the recently published International Index on the Quality of Death. [[Applauds]] What else does this international index tell us about the quality of death? In addition to the need for effective public palliative policy and comprehensive training of health professionals - all these are resources and we may need another type of government - he also says that Belgium and the Netherlands are among the top positions in this ranking; that is, far from being contradictory, palliative care and euthanasia are complementary and necessary. The best levels for good death take into account both things, so we are very much afraid that the law that they bring us today will be more like parliamentary posture than genuine political action. Do you know what they brought us? A Frankenstein, as the PNV partner said. Not only does it recall other laws, but article 1 is a literal copy of article 1 of the Andalusian law of 2011. Article 2 of its proposed law is a literal copy of article 3 of the 2015 Canary Law. Article 3 of its proposed law is copied from article 4 of the Canary Islands law as well. And we can go on. Article 5 is the result of an amendment which made its party to the law of the Community of Madrid and at the same time contains literal passages from the Andalusian, Galician and Argentinean laws. His article 8 is taken from the Aragonese law. Its article 9 is a literal copy of article 10 of the Balearic Islands Act. You have brought us here a Frankenstein, a meaningless bill that pretends to 'change it' all to leave it all the same. They bring us a collage wrongly made of autonomous laws, without a soul, written quickly and running and recorded in rebuf of our announcement; that is, basically a legislative chapuza. [[Applauds]] We imagine that the Socialist Parliamentary Group will approve it without great criticism, as they have just recorded something very similar to the Citizens' proposal also in an accelerated manner; we do not know whether it will be by rebuf or by decision of their own. We will also ask you if you think that this type of law will make you die better in Spain, because we understand that not. If you are concerned about palliative care and believe that it is essential that we move forward on that rather than on euthanasia, I remind you that without your abstention you would not rule the party of cuts and perhaps we would have a situation of palliative care and general health very different. [[Applauds]] I'm closing up. Last week they accused this parliamentary group of wanting to wear a medal. I just wanted to remind you that talking about euthanasia isn't about hanging any medals. The first time that United Left, now immersed in the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, brought the proposition of a law of euthanasia was in 1998, almost twenty years ago, so it was very hasty that last week was not. [[Applauds]] Citizens will surely try to breastfeed once again in this Chamber and tell us that this is one more of the commitments that is tearing the People's Party apart. I just hope it's something better than the commitments he has made on the issue of corruption, because, apart from great headlines, we haven't really seen anything yet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u41	Your Honor, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u42	I'm done. We are not going to be like you, gentlemen of Citizens. We're not going to behave like you and we're going to give you a vote of confidence. We are going to vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration, not only because we are open to discussing this issue, but also because we believe it is an opportunity to continue talking and to present an alternative text and to reintroduce the debate on euthanasia and assisted suicide without invading any autonomous competition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u43	For the Socialist Group, Mr Fernández Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. Let me start by telling you two human cases. One is that of Andrea, a 12-year-old girl affected by an irreversible degenerative disease who died at the Hospital Clínico de Santiago in October 2015. His parents had a long judicial and administrative calvary for doctors to agree to remove the probe through which he was artificially fed. He died painlessly and accompanied by his own after receiving palliative sedation. The child's parents received the support of the College Medical Organization, the Association Right to Die Dignity and the then secretary general of the Socialist Party, who promised a law of dignified death as soon as the Socialist Party reached the government. On the contrary, the hospital received the support of the Government of the Xunta, governed by Mr.Núñez Feijóo, and the Archbishopric of Santiago. Another case that has been reported here is that of Immaculate Echevarría, who since the age of eleven suffered progressive muscular dystrophy and lived in a Granadan health center, tied to a respirator from which he asked to disconnect it. She had to be transferred to a public hospital, with the mediation of the Junta de Andalucia, because the center where she lived in recent years did not want to attend to her will. Immaculate finally died in peace in March 2007 after being sedated. They are two cases of people in irreversible and painful processes who request the withdrawal of medical treatments that have no other purpose than the artificial maintenance of their lives. In 2005 the case of the Severo Ochoa Hospital jumped to the media when its head of emergency was accused by the Madrid Community Health Council, ruled by the People's Party, and his case was dropped a few years later. This head of emergency - I would like to remind you here - was supported by the Socialist Party from the very beginning. Why do I bring these assumptions here? Because they are cases of rejection of life support treatments, limitation of therapeutic effort and palliative sedation that still constitute many of the demands of people who face the end of their days wishing to die in peace, without pain, or anguish. It is not surprising, therefore, that most Spaniards support the right to a dignified death, not to assisted suicide, nor to euthanasia, Mrs Sibina, as you wanted to make believe here. I went to the sources, I went to the website of the demoscopic institute to which you referred, and look at what it says here: 84% of Spaniards support dignified death. [[Show a chart]] Therefore, do what you prefer with your citizen consultations, but please do not distort the surveys of independent institutes. In addition, comprehensive palliative care for many people dying in Spain is still being denied today. According to the latest analysis of palliative care, these reach barely 50% of the people who could benefit from them and are too often not comprehensive because they do not address the different social, health, psychological or physical dimensions. This lack of care at the end of life becomes even more deficient in some environments, such as rural ones, in some patients, such as pediatrics, or in some pathologies, such as non-oncological palliative care, and also predominates in palliative care offered only in the hospital environment and not in the home. While Act No. 41/2002 on Patient Autonomy established that any action in the field of a patient's health requires the free and voluntary consent of the previously informed patient, this Act was not sufficient for the subsequent cases that I have reported to them. That is why different autonomous communities have been adopting their own legislation. Andalusia was a pioneer with a socialist government in 2010. She was followed by Navarra and Aragón in 2011; Baleares in 2014; Canarias and Galicia in 2015; Basque Country in 2016; Madrid, this year 2017; and Asturias and Valencia have legislation in place. What do I want to tell you with this? Firstly, there are still Spanish citizens who do not have these rights legally protected. It is therefore necessary to extend this right to all citizens and to improve legal protection for good health practices at the end of life. Secondly, seven of these ten laws have been at the initiative of the Socialist Party. You, Mr Igea, have not invented anything; you have reworked the national and autonomous socialist bills and brought them to this House, making an exercise in political opportunism. That, Mr. Igea, is called plagiarism. [[Applauds]] But also, giving it a touch of your own, a conservative touch and a centralist touch. I can already anticipate that we do not agree with some of the centralizing concerns of your proposal for a law, nor with the option of conscientious objection that you have introduced, since you cannot object to what is simply and simply good medical practice. In June 2015, the majority of the People's Party avoided taking into consideration a socialist bill in this Congress, by the way, a few days before they voted in favour of Galician law, an initiative of the Galician Socialist Party. The 2015 bill contained a text of the bill approved by the Socialist Government in 2011. More than thirty professional and patient associations were heard to prepare this project and received the advice of the Council of State. This very bill is the one that we registered in this House in January of this year. That is why, if you, Mr Igea, had had the slightest political decorum, you would have agreed to discuss our proposal for a law and not yours, since ours has already made the social debate and the legal examination that yours does not have. Thirdly, I would like to refer to the consensus, which finally seems to be possible today, despite the fact that the People's Party has on many occasions taken a stand, when it has not fought from the institutions where it has ruled those who have fought. It is a right already enshrined in the Spanish Constitution in its article 15, which establishes the right to life and to the physical and moral integrity of the person, recognizing also the right to his dignity and to the autonomy of his will. This consensus is also projected in the professional sphere. When one consults the medical code of ethics it clearly observes three principles: not to undertake medical actions that have no hope of benefits; that when the healing or improvement of the patient is no longer possible, it remains the physician's obligation to apply appropriate measures to achieve his well-being, even when a shortening of life could result; and that the doctor will never intentionally cause the death of any patient, even in the event of an express request from him. Let us therefore legislate from the consensus. The Socialist Party will be the first to propose moving the boundaries of this right to autonomy over life itself. To this end, our group intends to propose for its introduction in this law the creation of a Spanish observatory of dignified death, which will allow to evaluate the application of this law, as well as the dimension and characteristics of other assumptions not contemplated in order to seek new legal solutions. This requires dialogue and rigour and not what we found in last week's discussion, where we heard many screams and too many emotions turned into rage. Neither anger, shouting, nor imposition are good companions, Mrs Sibina, for a debate like this, which requires another talent. There are aspects...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u45	Mr. Fernández, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u46	I'm done. As I said, we will ensure in the course of the debate that the rights of individuals are not at the top of the values or ideologies of some professionals and that the law that is passed is a basic law that establishes a common minimum standard and leaves room for development for the autonomous communities. That is why we will vote in favour of this law being taken into consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u47	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Cortés Bureta.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u48	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, palliative care for patients who require it is a right recognized by international bodies and, in addition, it is a health care service clearly described in Spanish legislation by the Law on Cohesion and Quality in the National Health System, the Law on Patient Autonomy, National Palliative Care Plan, Palliative Care Strategy, Framework Document for Improving Pain Management, Official Call for Good Practices or Paediatric Palliative Care Document; and, to all this, we add the autonomous laws that have already been said from this rostrum that have regulated this same subject. Even so, the People's Party has understood that there was no regulation at the national level that specifically regulates the palliative care that terminal patients can receive in the final process of their life or the rights and obligations that must be observed and respected by patients, their families and doctors at that time. In addition, a national standard such as this could contribute to equality in the provision of palliative care between and within the various autonomous communities. In addition, it could also contribute to equality in autonomous legislation on the final process of life. Therefore, one of the measures we signed with Citizens was to pass a law that would regulate policies that would allow a dignified death of people in the final process of their life and the right to be helped with palliative care that would avoid suffering in case of untreatable disease. We understand that care for the sick at the end of their lives must be a priority, and in Spain, in our country, despite the progress that has been made, as long as there is only one patient who dies with avoidable suffering, we will continue to work to avoid it. To receive adequate professional and humane care at the end of life should not be considered a privilege but a right of the sick. Today, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group presents a proposal for a law aligned with the guidelines established by international bodies, with European legislation, with the palliative care strategy of our National Health System, with the measure they signed with us and in line with what the People's Parliamentary Group considers to be key measures to achieve the ideal of good death or dignified death, which are respect for the autonomy of the person in the final process of his life, the right to receive comprehensive quality palliative care and the right not to suffer therapeutic stubbornness. Citizens know, they know that the People's Party respects what they have signed and complies with the agreements they have signed, and therefore they know that we will support this consideration. We share positive aspects that refer to the accompaniment of the patient by his family members, respect for the privacy of the patient and the one that deserves every human being in this last trance of his existence. During the parliamentary procedure we will have time to debate, reflect and review the content of the proposal and will also try to help improve it in some respects. In that regard, we believe that the explanatory statement could include the definition of a palliative care model. Currently, in Spain palliative care is provided at two levels, the basic and the specialized, as approved in the palliative care strategy to which I referred earlier. We can talk about whether the right to care information, developed in article 5, should be linked to the concept of early palliative care planning, which implies greater respect for patient autonomy, and also include this concept within article 4 of the definitions. Article 6.3 provides that the consent of the patient is verbal and written. Certainly at the time of the end of life it is difficult to obtain written consent, but, precisely for this reason, to give greater assurance that the will of the patient is that which he or she has actually expressed orally to the doctor and that which he or she has recorded in his or her medical history, it could be done before witnesses. It also contemplates the patient's right to palliative sedation in the final process of his life, although this implies a shortening of his life. In this circumstance, we believe that it may not be sufficiently clear whether it is a decision imposed by the patient or whether it is a decision taken from the context of the treatment, especially when the amendment to section 11(3) of the Patient's Autonomy Act could lead us to a contrary conclusion. This proposal amends that provision, so that any reference to the observance of the lex artes of existing legislation as a condition for the application of the previous instructions would be deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, the lex artis of the medical practitioner plays an important role, since it must be the doctor and not the patient who decides the treatment to be followed and who must administer the appropriate therapy to the situation, respecting, yes, at all times, the vital process through which the patient goes. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we will have time to discuss all this, and at this point, as I had already said, the People's Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of taking the proposal into consideration. At this moment our priority and our effort must be aimed at deepening more effectively in the development of the rights and autonomy of patients, ensuring comprehensive and quality care during the final process of life in order for people with advanced and terminal diseases to die with dignity without pain or suffering. Ladies and gentlemen, the care given by a people to its most fragile citizens is an exponent of its degree of civilization and, in that sense, the People's Parliamentary Group will always find it working on that, which is good, direction. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u49	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u50	The next item is the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the replenishment of the right of non-professional caregivers of the system of dependency on social security contributions. Mrs Ramon Utrabo has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u51	Thank you, President. Today we bring to plenary a demand that we have not failed to raise since the People's Party decided in July 2012 to eliminate the social security contributions of caregivers in the family environment for dependent people. This measure by the People's Party was not only taking the right to contribute, but was also trampling on social recognition of their work and depriving them of a pension in the future in order to deal with their old age calmly. My group considers this troupe to be particularly serious, which is one more than the Royal Decree 20/2012, because the damage done to these people, mainly women - 92% - hurts us all and ourselves. That is why my group has not stopped denouncing it from the very beginning, claiming it through initiatives, amendments to the budgets, and we are also considering it in our electoral programme. This claim that seems to us so clear, so obvious and so fair... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u52	One second, Your Honor. We do not need the speaker to raise her voice because there is no silence in the House. Please, ladies and gentlemen, I beg you all to remain silent so that you can hear it. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u53	Thank you, President. He said that this claim which seems to us so clear, so obvious and so just has not always been understood or shared. That is why I am going to use my speech to make a number of arguments in the hope that this initiative can be adopted unanimously in this House. First of all, I want to talk about the famous debt, which is a repetitive argument used by the People's Party and which I imagine will be used again this afternoon. Isn't that right? I want to talk about the debt. It is true that the 2013 budget liquidates the debt, but it is also true that it liquidates because in 2012 this right is stolen and therefore in 2013 it is liquidated. In addition, I would also like to mention the budgets. In 2011 we budget €33.5 million for social security contributions; in 2012, the People's Party draws up this budget and what amount does it propose? Well, exactly the same. If insufficient was - it was - the one of 2011, more clearly insufficient is that of 2012. But, moreover, the People's Party never mentions agreements and agreements between the General Treasury of Social Security and the Imserso. These agreements are clearly commonplace and no mention is made. But I do not want to waste the afternoon accusing the person responsible for that debt, whether a socialist government or a people's government because part of the debt will belong to one another. What is really important is that this right is eliminated, and while it is intended to divert attention to this issue of debt, a dramatic and unjust decision is taken in a sharp way, which is to eliminate the right for thousands and thousands of caregivers who have on many occasions left their professional career and also their jobs to care for a dependent person. They have sometimes had to do so because there are no adequate close resources to deal with these dependency situations and also because of the very geographical dispersion that we can have in our country. I also want to talk about the professionalization of services. My group is clearly in favour of this professionalization; in fact, it appears in articles 35.3 and 36 of the Act. Ladies and gentlemen, to bet on professionalization is at all contradictory with the support for the dignity and visibility of these mothers, daughters or sisters, because, if the law had been deployed as conceived and approved, they would have been tested and issued certificates of professionalism for these people, they would also have been incorporated into the training actions, they would have contributed to Social Security and they would have been genuine professionals, because in fact for their family members they are, so from the public authorities we cannot stop them from being legal as well. I would also like to address the issue of exceptionality. The law states that the beneficiary may exceptionally receive a financial benefit to be cared for by caregivers of the family environment, provided that it is under the appropriate conditions and when its individual care plan so establishes. What is exceptional does not mean that it is eliminated or disregarded, because it is necessary to balance this exceptional character with the principle of permanence, which is also covered by the law; permanence as far as possible in the family environment where the dependent person usually resides. This is why there is the PIA, the Individual Care Program, which determines which intervention is most appropriate after consultation with the beneficiary or his family. I understand that there will be times when the most appropriate intervention is so. Why? Firstly, because there are cases in which it is practically unthinkable that a family should decide to place their family members in a centre and I am led by cases of mothers with minor children. Secondly, because there are circumstances such as geographical dispersion and low population density that make us not have the most adequate resources to care for these people in a more immediate environment. When the law speaks of exceptionality, it is not casual, but all this is very thoughtful and very consensual. First, because we considered that with the deployment of the law as it was, the public system would increasingly have more and better resources. We must also take into account the emotional ties that we have here in our country; ties that have led to the creation of genuine support networks that have often come to alleviate the situations experienced by families as a result of this economic crisis and the cuts in public services. We considered that with the deployment of the law over the years these caregivers would retire, and when I say retire, it is because they would contribute to Social Security and enter new generations with completely different approaches. With this approach I want to link with the last argument, which is the perpetuation of roles. No one is going to give us class to socialists in the fight for gender equality. It is a question of offering the best solution to a situation which is taking place in the context of a very concrete and latent reality. Those who think that the traditional model should not be perpetuated should not lead us to neglect, to neglect and to leave these family caregivers in an unprotected situation. With this, and in order to conclude, I want to say that my group agrees - and I believe that most of the groups too - that the immediate replacement of this right to contributions is necessary. This non-law proposal has had many amendments from other political groups, we almost agree with all the amendments that have been tabled, but today we want to focus primarily on this issue, on the replenishment of the right to social security contributions and pay a well-deserved tribute to women like Gloria, who has been caring for her son with cerebral palsy for twenty-six years; or to women like Carmen, who has been caring for her father with alzheimer for ten years. They are women who work 24 hours a day on 365 days a year. That is why I would like to ask all the groups in the House to focus on the issue before us and not on other collaterals that have been the subject of debate and approval in the Commission, and to support this GNP because I believe it is essential to recover the levels of social protection that we once had in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u54	In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet is speaking first of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group on a position-setting basis.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u55	Thank you, President. Let's see how I summarize this and make a position fixation in a minute. That we are being presented here today with an amendment to the royal decree that removed the guarantees for caregivers, seems very good to us. It seems good to us because it is a recovery from the welfare system, because it clearly recognizes the rights of caregivers, because it contributes to better future pensions for them. But today we also have to remind the People's Party that this stage that they called crisis is no longer worth us, that we want to regain all rights, and that is why we think this is a toast to the sun. Because making a proposal that only recognizes the return of social security contributions, but does not budget the Unit Act and does not re-establish the state budget allocation for that Act, is of course a toast to the sun, because without money there is no attention. We have already checked it in the Valencian Government. We have achieved with the budget increase that more than 20,000 beneficiaries are re-entering the dependency system. So we hope and would like the Socialist Party to be brave, to really align with the dependent people, and today it is said in this Parliament that the crisis is no longer worth us as an excuse, that the rights of the dependent people are no longer for sale, and for this we must return social security contributions and also the state contribution in dependence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u56	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u57	Thank you, Madam President. This initiative proposed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group opens two discussions: one, which Mrs Sorlí has just raised, is the need for any debate on the Unit Law to address the fundamental problem, which is the funding, compliance with the forecasts of that law, which have not been met, and also to reverse the reforms introduced by the People's Party in 2012, which ended with the State's support for this policy and which now means that 80% of public expenditure is concentrated in the autonomous communities, not in the 50% initially envisaged by that law. In addition, it opens the debate on how we make compatible the right of families to choose how they care for their dependents, how we make possible the development of a good offer of professional services in this area and how we value the involvement of family members in the care of their dependents. It is a debate that the Socialist Group's initiative does not resolve; it does not resolve the funding of the unit - and hence our amendments - nor does it resolve this substantive issue. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate would require more depth than we have had today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u58	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Alli Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u59	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon again. To deny a reality, which is that the implementation of Royal Decree 20/2012 involved one before and after in relation to the financing of the system of dependency, will not do so much less my group. That was the case, and it had consequences in terms of the provision and intensity of the services and also in the repeal of the social security contributions of family caregivers of dependent persons. And that in Navarre has meant that the state has stopped contributing 10.1 million euros over the last five years, so Union of the Navarro People will continue to fight, to return to that previous model. But I must also say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, that the fact that it is precisely you who are proposing this non-legislative proposal is like asking for a house to be rehabilitated when the previous tenant destroyed it. We are not going to enter this debate or vote in favour when, as you know, it has been this way. Moreover, this demagogy means the same thing that has happened in the Foral Community of Navarre, that when Bildu, Geroa Bai or Izquierda-Ezkerra were in the opposition the last legislature asked for that quote from the foral arks and today, which have been in the government for two years, they have done absolutely nothing, because they are able to quantify and see that, indeed, at this moment, it is not possible for sustainability itself. As far as the Navarro People's Union in Navarre is concerned, it is for the 4,300 families and dependents who have been waiting for thirteen months in terms of dependency and who have doubled the time in just two years. Therefore, we are not going to get into this debate much less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u60	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Matute García de Jalón also has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. Get out of the way. I have a minute and a half, that is, I can devote a little more time than I thought. In any case, it's going to be a microsynthesis. We will support this initiative, even if it is a partial, very limited and clearly insufficient initiative. We say it is a partial initiative because it does not integrate the other working women who perform care tasks that do not compute in the annual GDP. It is a very limited initiative because it arises as a concrete reform of a specific aspect of a law, the Unit Act, which never arose to democratize the care system or to transfer responsibility for care to men or to overcome the sexual division of labour, which perpetuates precariousness in women. It seems that there are those who think in this House that women are born with a gene that predisposes them to care and that we are exempt from men, but probably none of the men we are here today could be if there were no women who have done their work care, because there is no productive system, regardless of the position from which one places oneself before the productive system, which can be sustained without a care system. The President of the Government said in his speech to invest his first obligation as a representative was to defend the unity of Spain - that is more or less so - the equality of the Spaniards and respect for fundamental rights. It would be good if it were applied in respect of fundamental rights, including women's rights, and in equality, as he says of all Spaniards, also of more than half of the Spanish population, who are women and who continue to be in an unequal situation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u62	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Clemente Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I would like to begin my speech by telling you the story of Mary. Maria is a woman who worked as an administrative worker in a company, when diagnosing her child a serious degenerative disease she had to stop working in order to be able to devote herself to her care. Under the Unit Act, she worked as a non-professional caregiver of the family environment on behalf of the State and received a financial benefit for the degree of dependency of her child. After the PP cutbacks in 2012, he was cut off from the child's financial benefit and had to stop contributing because he was unable to pay, as his child requires physical therapy and has to pay it out of his pocket. Her husband currently works, but is about to retire and her income will be reduced again and without social security contributions. I'd like to show you this ABC cover, on which Mr. Rajoy said in 2011: 'I'll put the scissors on everything except pensions, health and education.' It is clear that in the first part of the sentence he fulfilled his threat and in the second part he was simply in a position alienated from the truth. Without delving into the diagnosis, I would like to highlight five truly embarrassing, embarrassing and relevant data. In Spain there are more than one million people in dependency status; today, more than 400,000 are waiting for a benefit; more than 100,000 have died before receiving the benefit to which they were entitled; numerous co-sponsors have been established in relation to dependency, and the issue that brings us here today, the Royal Decree-Law 20/2012 of 13 July, among those changes that were introduced in the social security system, non-professional caregivers of people in dependency situations become the sole responsibility of the subscriber. This measure affected some 180,000 people who had signed the special agreement, nine out of ten are women. [[The Lord]] On the part of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, we have tabled an amendment of addiction and technical improvement that provides practical solutions and as a shock measure, because without providing solutions - recalling my previous speech in plenary - you become inexorably part of the problem. Who would not agree, ladies and gentlemen, with this initiative, with the philosophy it raises? But I agree that it stays a little short. Obviously, no one would be against this, but it is not enough to promote awareness or a mere posture; we must remarry, dialogue and negotiate in order to obtain concrete, feasible and urgent measures as citizens in this House propose. Families affected by dependency need all the help they can get in the form of services and care, which is why it is the number one priority of Citizens, and that is why it is present among the points of the investment agreement with the PP to strengthen the dependency care system with a more agile management and with greater emphasis on the prevention of dependency. That is why we must urgently reverse the cuts in aid to the unit, increase its funding and end the waiting lists. We have already put forward a similar proposal in the Valencian Courts presented in November, which was voted in February by all the groups including the Group of the European People's Party, ladies and gentlemen. Let's hope they're consistent. That is why it is necessary not only to improve coordination between the central and the autonomous administration, but to provide it with financial resources, not as in that fateful year 2012, in which the People's Party fulminated the resources to the National System of the Unit even being forced to co-finance them at 50 per cent. To give an example, I will give a figure from my community: in Andalusia in the last four years they have stopped contributing 508 million euros, and the total amount cut by the Government since 2012 amounts to more than 2 billion euros in the whole state. It is clear that such coordination must be provided with resources and investment in a sustainable way, and the excuse for the crisis is no longer valid for us. As long as you continue to bet on more cuts in social justice without optimizing public spending, with inefficiency of duplication, without daring to puncture the political bubble, and without showing a firm and determined attitude against tax fraud and corruption, you will remain part of the problem. It is very urgent to promote a state pact for social services, dialogue and consensus with the collaboration and contribution of civil society, platforms, specialists in the third sector, but always looking at it from the perspective of opportunity and, as I have said, consensus with the Autonomous Communities and the Territorial Council for Social Services and for Dependency. We must achieve that agile, common and sustainable management in a new model of autonomous financing, ensuring that those resources are sufficient, equitable and of quality. Here is a solution, ladies and gentlemen, to point 57 of our 150-demand agreement, in which we increase the annual budget line by EUR 440 million. With this measure, one of those that serves to improve Spain, do you believe that in a country that passes by being the thirteenth economic power of the world and fourth of Europe there would be situations like that of Mary? In conclusion, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity given to me from this rostrum and give a message of hope to the more than 400,000 dependent citizens awaiting a benefit. We're not leaving you guys alone. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Clemente. Mrs Marcello Santos has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today the Socialist Party proposes that we put an end to a part of Royal Decree 20/2012 that abolished the contribution of non-professional caregivers who care for dependents. This austerity and cut-off of the People's Party caused more than 170,000 non-professional caregivers to be expelled from the social security system. At the outset, I would like to inform you that the Socialist Group's proposal seems to us to be interesting and necessary, but it seems to us that this measure is insufficient, if we really want to give full and complete attention to people in a situation of dependence and to advocate for an independent quality and life for them. In our view, we believe that we should speak first, before we want to recover social security for non-professional caregivers, from the Unit Act, which is where this benefit was collected. And why do we think it's necessary? Because in our country 2.5% of the population, more than a million people, have by law recognized the right to a benefit or service recognized in the Unit Act, but 350,000 people are in the limbo of the unit. That means that, despite having recognized the right, they are waiting for that right to become effective. And it is bloody that our group has to say here today in this House that more than 100,000 people have died waiting for that Unit Law to come into force and be granted their rights. It is clear that in this application there is a notable difference between the different Autonomous Communities, where the General Administration of the State contributes only 18% of the funding and the remaining Autonomous Communities, thus failing to comply with the 50 % agreed financing model of each of the two Parties. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, you have cut more than 2.5 billion since 2012 following this decree. They have abandoned dependent people, violated their rights, turned their backs on families, turned their backs on health and social services professionals when we said in 2012 that what they were trying to do is a real aberration with dependent people and they have implemented the policy you best know how to do, the roller policy, but their time has run out, the time for the actual decrees has run out, and it is time to change the conception of dependency and the model of care we want. It is time to talk about what model we are going to occupy women in care, because you are asking us to recover the social security of non-professional caregivers, when 84% of caregivers are caregivers and we are women once again taking on the tasks of care. [[Applauds]] We are talking, as the Socialist Group's colleague said, about women who spend 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year, and you just want to give them Social Security? They are becoming more and more like the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Therefore, our confederal group defends that there must be an integral law of care for situations of dependency where women have the option to choose whether we want to be caregivers, recognizing, yes, social security, but that we have the option of choosing within the law different services such as the catalogue of professional care, day centres, night centres, teleassistance, adapted floors, prevention service and public and accessible residential centers. It is unacceptable that on average it costs 1,500 euros a residential centre for people in a situation of dependency. It is time to give the quality and recognize the role of the helpers in the home help service so that they have recognized their decent working conditions and we do not have to see, as in Murcia, the helpers in the home help service who care for people more than eight days on strike and we, Leon's helpers, have to go out and demonstrate together with the helpers in the home because they need to be recognized with decent working conditions to care for the most dependent people. [[Applauds]] We need to ensure quality public services and resources, with funding through the State General Budgets, for all people living in dependency situations, so we ask the Socialist Group to take into account the amendments we have tabled, which call for the right of unemployment benefit to non-professional caregivers not to be left unprotected after the end of the dependency situation of the caregiver; for the right to training to be guaranteed, because after being caregiver they have to enter the labour market; for the right to maternity, paternity, dependent children and during breastfeeding and the increase in the amount, because we are giving real misery to those who care for the rest of the population. [[Applauds]] Above all, we have to bet that this measure is taken immediately, as there are countless cases where resources and benefits arrive years after the person has died. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, if you do not take our amendments into account, be brave, go out on the street and tell the non-professional carers that they are going to distribute only Social Security to them, anchoring them more in their homes with their care. We have no doubt that this measure will go ahead today, but know that it is an empty title of content. Be brave, get out and explain it. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, let us not lend crumbs. We guarantee rights and face a law of dependence in a serious, honest and real way in an urgent way, because the lives of hundreds of thousands of people living in a situation of dependency are at stake. Whether we like it or not, one day we're all going to need to be cared for because we're people in dependency. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u66	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marcello. The Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u67	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. When I speak on this subject, I have the feeling that I have attended this debate, but with other forms and formulas. It is a debate already known in this Parliament, which consists of the old and repeated game of I invite and you pay; I legislate it on a basic basis under Articles 149.1.1a and 149.1.16.a, I impose obligations on all public administrations and when the time comes to make them effective, the State disappears and the communities have to face up to those obligations, for their despair. As you know, there is a distinction in the dependency support model, which covers care support for a family member, the hiring of a personal assistant, PEAP, and a more residual third is financial support for those in need of residential assistance and are unable to access a public service. I'm going to tell you about the model of the Guipúzcoa Foral Diputation. At the end of 2016, there were 1,904 new recipients of dependency benefits, of which 1,595, 84%, corresponded to the personal assistance grants, PEAP, referred to in Article 19 of Law 39/2006, and only 15% to the care of patients in the family environment, referred to in Article 18 and to which we are referring today. In 2013, as a result of the maintenance of a determined policy by the deputy to promote the work of aid to the unit, only Guipúzcoa accounted for 85% of the total personal assistance benefits - the PEAP of Article 19 - that were paid throughout the State, a trend that has increased in the years 2014 and 2015. Reading is simple. The maintenance of the amounts of economic aid by the Guipúzcoa Provincial Council, despite the provisions of the Royal Decree-Law 20/2012, has led to the reversal of a trend, the trend according to which the care of dependent persons occurred preferably within the family environment. Today, this trend has changed and there is much more support for external, professional caregivers, starting with article 19 of Law 39/2006. I would like to say that where there has been an institutional impulse, a determined political intention to equip the model of care for persons dependent on characteristics that coincide with the purpose of Law 39/2006, all this has involved the visibility of a niche of employment, that of care for dependent persons, which until now existed or remained invisible by situations of irregular recruitment when not simply illegal. In addition, it has entailed the regularization of irregular recruitments and without social coverage and has made it possible to make visible and legalize a broad group that focused mainly on the field of female workers - as my predecessor said - immigrants. If instead of opting for the withdrawal of aid to policies of dependence, it had opted for the strengthening of those initiated by Law 39/2006, which coincided with those which had been maintained by the Diputación Foral de Guipúzcoa, there would be a regularized, legalized, visible and without traces of labour exploitation, and the economic system and the Social Security System would have been endowed with new born contributors, which would only benefit it. With this in mind, I would like to point out that it is another example of the aim of legislation on autonomous competences, of invading the competences of autonomous communities which should be able to legislate their own models in matters which are attributed to them by the statutes of autonomy, without the title of equality, which is always referred to in Article 149.1.1, having been resented. [[The lady]] Moreover, it is the State excess that has harmed public policies that were in force even before Law 39/2006; in fact, measure 20/2012 does not cease to be a punishment for the autonomous communities that have best done their duties because they assumed obligations that they now continue to perform despite the lack of State support. This GNP is not worth us for two reasons: firstly, because it does not cease to be a reminder of an illegitimate interference in the area of the competences of the autonomous communities and, secondly, because we believe that it enters into a debate that is not timely and this is not the place for it. In agreement with the substance of the question, the need to re-establish such aid for the contribution of non-professionals also underlies another question and is the irregularity of that decree which places in a non-work situation the services provided by those non-professionals. That, with all due respect, must be brought to the scope of the Toledo Pact, not for its contribution to be contemplated in one way or another, but because the workspaces without contribution must disappear altogether. Even if it is of non-professional persons, even if it is of family members, this is a space that must be regulated and integrated as a work space of contribution. In other words, what would happen if all these people now began to require the Administration to fail to pay contributions in that period when they were unable to do so, when they had previously shown the working nature of the relationship and were now denied? What would happen? And if you had to answer for quote defects, who would? The employers or the State that has caused this situation? That is why we agree with the purpose, not the form, because such a policy must be in the Basque Country, in the Autonomous Community, and because it is not the time or the place for this debate. He will be welcome elsewhere and, for the time being, despite the immense criticism that this initiative deserves, we believe that we cannot vote for it or against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u68	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Last Wednesday, very close to Congress, at the Athenaeum, several spokespersons had a meeting with the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services to present their annual report. Scarecrow's a little low. It was a comprehensive analysis of the impact of the Unit Act on Spanish society as a whole. That's why today's PNL makes me more skeptical - it's difficult, but yes, it makes me more skeptical - because it's like killing an elephant with pinches and for a very simple reason. If next week the budgets are brought to this House, I find it difficult for proposals of this kind to be finalized under specific headings. I'll explain. Between increasing the Ministry of Defence's budget - I remind you that in four years' time it will be twice as much - and this situation, I am afraid it will send the first. Recently you approved the expenditure ceiling and not long ago approved the reform of article 135 of the Constitution. They always tell us that there is no other solution and that there is only one possible political line. If we say this out loud, maybe they won't take us out to Venezuela, but they will take us out to Greece. But they forget our neighbor Portugal; they always forget Portugal. I would like Grândola, Vila Morena to resound in this House as it sounded when in the Portuguese Congress they tried to change the constitution. From the audience the song was extended to all the congressmen and did not change. They may have made a democratic revolution - because revolutions can be democratic - and not a restoration reform. Maybe that's it. If we do not change the spending ceiling and this policy that the only policy is that of cuts, we will make gestures but little more than gestures. Miguel Hernández has resounded here today and I have Blas de Otero: 'If I opened my lips to see the face / pure and terrible of my homeland, / if I opened my lips to tear them apart, / I have the word'. I have the floor, but for women who do not have Social Security my word is insufficient; for people who expected changes by voting differently to the People's Party, the word is insufficient. This is what is expected of us here in this Parliament: less GNP or at least more generous GNP to accept the amendments tabled here. But if we are not from the People's Party or Citizens' Party, its technicians do not see well what we do and therefore take it out of our hands. Holy patience, the one we have many here! But the least important thing is our patience; the important thing is the patience of the people who have put their trust in the left in a broad sense, the people who wanted changes and non-abstentions. We'll take the floor and use it again. Holy patience! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u70	Thank you, Mr. Olòriz. I have the floor, for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Navarro.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u71	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am speaking to establish a position on the Socialist Parliamentary Group's proposal, which is being debated this afternoon and is entitled 'on the replenishment of the right of non-professional caregivers of the Unitary System to social security contributions'. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress the first thing it has had to do has been to replenish the stupor and astonishment that has caused us by PNL and, secondly, to go to the dictionary of the Royal Spanish Language Academy to know the meaning of the verb replenish. It says: Replace one thing that has been eliminated by another equal or of the same type. We therefore ask the Socialist Group's bench what they want. Do you want us to replenish the social security contributions without paying? Because that's exactly what you left us. [[Applauds]] Yes, yes, we were left with no right contracts, and it was called EUR 1,034 million in debt to Social Security because they did not pay one of the contributions to the family caregivers of the dependents. It had to be a People's Party government that paid the debt to Social Security. What do you want us to do, undress one saint to dress another? Because that's exactly what they did. Do you not know that the social security contributions which you did not pay were intended to pay other benefits, such as temporary incapacity, non-contributory pensions or the pensions of our elders, those which you also frozen? This People's Parliamentary Group wonders what they want to replenish with this. The precariousness of women's employment? Do you know that almost 90% of the family caregivers in the dependency system are women? Are these your initiatives to bring women into the labour market? Do you simply want to reduce them to the realm of your home and leave them to the care of your dependent family members? You have us used to something, say one thing and do the opposite. First on my land, in Castile-La Mancha. Here they ask for social security contributions and on my land they have reduced 3,000 care benefits in the family environment in two years of the legislature of President García-Page. This socialist leader also has us used to his concept of equality when he refers to women like the chacha or the one who doesn't know how to pass the vacuum cleaner; we also know that. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, it will be that in order to replenish the policies of the Socialist Party they will not find the People's Parliamentary Group, and our vote will be no. The People's Party Government has been ensuring the sustainability of the system since December 2011. The reforms that we have made and to which you alluded in the body of the explanatory statement of your initiative are those that have made it possible to increase the quality of the provision of dependency and of their families, professionalizing the sector and generating employment. It has allowed family caregivers who so desire to continue to care for their dependents, but on a voluntary and transparent basis; no one deceives them today. The People's Parliamentary Group recognizes their efforts and is committed to promoting recognition of the professional accreditation and qualification of all those who have devoted their time and effort to the care of their dependent relatives. The reforms were initiated for two fundamental reasons. First of all, because that's what the law said. He pointed out the provision of care in the family environment and the economic provision as exceptional; even the Court of Auditors came to tell you in a report when they said that they were managing the unit as a grant exchange. Secondly, because it is the only way to generate employment and we have shown it. [[The Lord]] There are 45,000 new highs in social security in the dependency sector since December 2011, there are 400,000 people working in the dependency sector and two thirds of our dependents, almost 700,000, are receiving a professional service. Ladies and gentlemen, our numbers support us and our commitment, that of the People's Party, is with today's dependents and tomorrow's dependents. That is why we are already doing our homework and we are working on it. We have created, as a result of the agreement of the Conference of Presidents, the Commission for the analysis of the system of dependence to indicate its situation, the financing and the sustainability of this system. The conclusions of this analysis will have to be drawn in order to make certain decisions in the Territorial Council of the dependence of the autonomous communities, because it is with them that we have to go hand in hand. In addition, we promote the professional services of the Health and Social Services Commission. And what did the Socialist Party vote on? He voted no, and today it's a good thing he stood up for you here. We also support the popular legislative initiative of the Cermi for the amendment of the Unit Act because we also want to go hand in hand with civil society. But I will tell you one thing briefly, if what you want is to come here and do social policy, if what you want is to work to protect our dependents, our elders, the most vulnerable people, I will tell you that the best social policy is the one that is being paid for, and for that it must be included in the expenditure section of the State's General Budgets. You have a magnificent opportunity soon to position yourself next to them. They support the General Budgets of the State, this parliamentary group is waiting for them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u72	Thank you very much, Mrs Navarro. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mrs Ramón Utrabo whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u73	In my speech, I have already said that we prefer voting on their own terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u74	Thank you very much, we take note. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON THE REFORM OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL TRIBUNAL. [[File number 162/000365]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u75	We turn next to the following item on the agenda: Proposal for a law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the reform of the Constitutional Court. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a true democracy, the body responsible for ensuring compliance with the Constitution, the maximum interpreter of the supreme rule, the one who receives the remedies of amparo, the one which resolves the conflicts of powers, the conflicts of competences, cannot be the subject of a division of party quotas, of a division of quotas between the heads of parties. I am sure that was not the intention of the parents of the Constitution, of the parents of our contemporary democracy. It could not be his intention for Spain to become a party state. If in one respect Spain is a State of parties in the eyes of the citizenry, it is precisely in the way in which the appointment of constitutional bodies is decided, in this case of the most important constitutional body, the Constitutional Court. Two fundamental ideas should govern its functioning, as foreseen in the Magna Charter. The principle of independence and immobility of its members and their recognized professional competence. We only intend to return to those principles that the Constitution wanted to establish, but there are two major problems that are currently harassing our Constitutional Court. Firstly, the selection criterion originally envisaged in the Magna Charter has gradually yielded to the political interests of the two old parties, of the two large parties, until it has ended up being seen as normal by politicians what is not and being seen as abnormal, because it is, by impartial observers. It is interesting at this point to recall what the Constitutional Court itself warned about the way in which the members of the General Council of the Judiciary were appointed. He spoke of conjuring the risk that the Chambers, when making their proposals, would forget the objective pursued and, acting with permissible criteria in other areas, but not in this one, would only serve the division of existing forces within themselves and distribute the seats to be filled among the various parties in proportion to their parliamentary force. The logic of the party state pushes towards such actions. That was the warning issued by the Constitutional Court itself. Secondly, another factor of concern is the gradual, unjust discredit of that constitutional body to the extent that the discredit has advanced. And I say that it is unfair, but it is that in order for credit to be maintained and for credit to increase, it is not only necessary to work with the proper care and excellence, it is also necessary to convey the idea and image of impartiality, objectivity and non-dependency of the party state. I have little time and will focus on the fundamental reforms we are proposing. We propose that a working group be set up in which all parliamentary groups are represented and that, within six months, a text be submitted for the comprehensive reform of the court, bringing about the reform of the Constitution, the amendment of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court and the amendment of parliamentary regulations. The fundamental reforms to be introduced would be, first and foremost, a genuine and effective assessment of candidates, competence and suitability. This would require a public call for vacancies, real hearings in Congress and the Senate; a committee of independent experts to assess technical competence and suitability; and publicizing evaluation reports. Secondly, that the system of incompatibilities of candidates should be tightened, so that there is no shadow of suspicion of politicization or partyisation; a competence recognized in the exercise of the right of twenty-five years against the present fifteen years; that the retirement age should be increased to seventy-five years for its members; and that they should be appointed for twelve years against the present nine years. That is to say, a set of measures that convert access, the arrival of someone to the Constitutional Court at the top of a great career, and not in part in the middle of a legal career, but in the top, in the end, of the crowning of a jurist of prestige. [[Applauds]] The reform aims only to return to what the Constitution already wanted and tried to correct the failures that have arisen in practice, correcting the defects - as it said at first - that some observers, such as Guillermo Cortázar - which, by the way, has been his commilion - has recently used in a work very worthy and worthy of attention, as are the problems with which Spain was precisely under that heading of the State of parties. The State of parties enjoys poor public health, low prestige and regeneration also happens because the constitutional organs regain the role and image with which they were conceived. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Girauta. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also fix its position at this time, first of all, Mr Bataller i Ruiz, intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the election of the members of the Constitutional Court has reached a point of sluggishness. More than by choice, we can already talk about recruitment, because the last episode we have seen in the election of the four members that corresponded to the Senate, in which the People's Party and the Socialist Party agreed, to unify the proposals that came from the legislative assemblies of the autonomous communities, so that it was arrived - and it is not my expression - to make a real change of chromosomes. This is the situation with which we must end. I commend the proposing group, Citizens, that it has not been afraid to propose a reform of the Constitution, that this is not a taboo for them. Indeed, the Constitution is an open text that must be plastic, must be alive and must be subject to change when the general interest so requires, as is clearly the case here. I have to confess that I read the Citizens' proposal, in principle, with some prevention in case it fell back into the temptation of returning to corporatism, as we have already seen that we were being asked, for example, about the election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. But well-read and well-educated in this proposition, I think I see a text that has no small letter, but is really animated by a will for change. In this sense, I say that we are going to support him. What concerns us only are some proposals that make it possible to increase the term of office from nine to twelve years, or to delay the retirement age to seventy-five years, or to require a minimum of twenty-five years of prior exercise, because the combined play of all these preventions can lead us to establish in the Constitutional Court a genuine gerontocracy, which is not appropriate. Because to take the social pulse in Spain - which is very alive - it is convenient to open the door to people who are not all, exclusively, focused on thinking more about retirement and the final stage of their life than on other things. Twelve years of office is a lot. Think where Citizens were twelve years ago or Compromises or other political formations that we are now very important to the life of this country, where were they? We must pretend that the people who make up the Constitutional Court know who we are, where we are and who do not live in a capsule, that they do not live in a bubble because for that they are interpreters of the Constitution. We have tabled amendments along the lines I have indicated; we have also seen that many other groups have tabled interesting amendments which we would like the proposing group to study and endorse in a broad compromise. Therefore, if this is achieved, I have already announced that the vote on Compromis will be in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u79	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller. Mr Salvador Armendáriz also has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 1 June 2010, the People's Party presented a statement of unconstitutionality to the court before the law that liberalized abortion, approved by the government of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero. The same appeal called for the suspension of a number of articles on which it seemed important to take a decision, as it could have irreparable effects in the event of a decision or other. The court rejected the suspension on the grounds that it was going to decide immediately on the importance of the issue; today, March 28, 2017, we continue without the Constitutional Court making a decision. My question, Mr. Girauta, is: Is this caused by a perverse system of choice of court members or is it a different matter? We don't just have that problem, we have others. But, in any case, I have as you more questions than solutions today. Because it is true that the system was adopted with much consensus, with virtually no conflict when the Constitution was decided. How did we get to pervert him? This is a debate that we should take into consideration. Is it the system itself that is perverted? Are we the ones that do it? If it is us, do we have to change the system because it is us who do it wrong? do we have to do it by reforming the Constitution or not? do we have to go that far? What margins does the 1979 Act leave us? We, as I say to you, have more questions than answers, but it is true that the reinforced majority requires a large majority and, in principle, it would not be necessary to put one in that effort which bothers him more to the contrary. It seems to us that this should not be the way things are chosen, by some sort of adjustment of accounts. Therefore, it seems to us that the initiative, that we have to touch the Constitution, generates serious reservations - it is true - but in any case we are open to discussing how to improve the system, how to improve the court in its quality, independence, professionalism and, of course, the freedom of opinion of its members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Girauta, gentlemen of the Citizens' Group, I do not know exactly what we are doing. Let us review the recent history of the parliamentary process: in December the Democratic Party presented a proposal for a law for the amendment of the Constitutional Court and in December a proposal for a law of the Basque Nationalist Party for the amendment of the Constitutional Court was taken into consideration, so that its proposals should be amendments to this amendment of the law. But we have been five weeks in a row with an explicit pact to postpone the process of this legislative reform. You propose that the presentation be convened and that these proposals be put forward in a reform of the Constitutional Court, which wanted to deal, among other things, with the non-suspension of functions without the trial of elected officials. As it is read, the recommendation of the Venice Commission clearly states that the Constitutional Court must be a mediator rather than an enforcer of political decisions. Mr. Girauta, I agree with you in the diagnosis you have made and I can even use your words. You have spoken of the Constitutional Court with discredit, you have spoken of a lack of independence and institutional degradation, so you will understand that we present more than our reservations and that we consider the observation and respect for the decisions of a court that has become a court that increasingly makes political decisions, also in the choice of its internal organs. Last week in the election of members, the president and vice president, it seemed that we were before a novel by Agatha Christie, Ten Negritos, when deciding how it is composed. We are talking about a Constitutional Court, a Spanish judicial system which, above all, has taken the decision to remove a member of this House, Mr Homs, from his duties. Today is a sad day and this is the sad week that will weigh on the discredit of Spanish democracy. Today and this week, Mr Girauta, your humanity should also be oriented towards expressing its sentiment towards an elected Member of this House who has been disqualified from voting and giving the voice to the citizenry. This will weigh on the history of Spanish constitutionalism...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u83	Mr. Xuclà, you have to conclude, you've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u84	...and the history of Spain's democratic quality. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u85	Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we affirm that the Constitutional Court is a corrupt body, corrupted in its functions as a partyist and victim of the politicization imposed by the parties that make up bipartisanism, doing a weak favor for democracy. Without jeopardizing the fact that the Constitutional Court has played a role in safeguarding fundamental rights, it is true that it has been going through its role since the beginning of democracy when this institution was more progressive than the judiciary itself - remember that there were then hundreds or thousands of Francoist judges, Francoist laws still in force and a hegemony of sociological Francoism - to the present stage, where even the president of the Constitutional Court was fulfilled with being a militant of the People's Party. It is clear that the court has suffered a progression towards decay and, if they want, to putrefaction; note that we are talking about the putrefaction of a constitutional body. With regard to the autonomous State, the composite State, they must observe its evolution from that Constitutional Court which was the guarantee of decentralization from the beginning of the democratic State, to the current scenario in which it is the guarantee of non-recognition, of the non-exercise of the right to decide, that is, coinciding with what we call national constitutionalism, passing through the ignominy of the ruling of the Statute of 2010. So you will recognize that we are talking about a decadence of the same Spanish democracy, of the same Spanish democratic system, which is why we do recognize and understand that you have an interest in amending the Law of 79, of the Constitutional Court, because there is something that smells rotten, right? And since we cannot ignore the recent opinion of the Venice Commission on the Constitutional Court and its response to the Catalan process, we call for some amendments to be added. If they are taken over by the proposing group, we will vote in favour; if they are not taken over, we will vote against. We call for the incorporation as an element of study of the relationship of topics to be studied, the elimination of the possibility of criminal prosecution of any elected office for disobeying the Constitutional Court when acting in compliance with a democratic mandate; the elimination of the suspension of autonomous laws, because it cannot, for example, be the Constitutional Court to become a second Catalan Chamber, that is to say, what is approved in Barcelona, is suspended here. Three, that the Constitutional Court cannot control the constitutionality of the statutes that have previously been endorsed by the people. Four, which prevents the Constitutional Court from undermining the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia - and other peoples of the current Spanish State - expressed either directly by the ballot box or through their democratic representatives. And, finally, that the board of statutory guarantees be granted the character of interpreter of the fundamental statutory rights that, as you know, was suppressed in the Constitutional Court's judgment of 2010. So, in short, something smells rotten: a corrupt Constitutional Court in its functions. By the way, the academy has not lived up to what was expected of people so intelligent, so formed, over these years, that they have been genuine to political power. In short, we will vote in favour if our amendments are incorporated and, if not, we will vote against. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Moya Matas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Girauta, we are essentially in agreement with your statement; we agree with the imperative need to depolitize courts and tribunals... in the same way that Mr Rivera himself told us, in October 2015: political gentlemen, take your departures from justice; shortly after correcting yourself when he said that in the face of such politicization of the Constitutional Court we might have to raise the need to eliminate it. Good. We welcome today's reformist, constructive approach to the Constitutional Court, and we want to join in. This discredit of the Constitutional Court was also confirmed a few days ago when the president of the Constitutional Court, Mr Pérez de los Cobos, literally told the Minister of Justice - also on the basis of everything that happened around the Catalan process - that such problems could not be solved by this court whose function was to ensure strict compliance with the Constitution, and called for a solution to these questions, which were eminently political. He literally said: These problems must be solved through dialogue and cooperation. So, yes, we absolutely agree on the need for measures that depoliticize and achieve this necessary independence of the Constitutional Court. However, what Constitutional Court is coming to us today? We have a constitutional court that is absolutely discredited, absolutely degenerate; and not just us, says the Venice Commission. The Constitutional Court has been thrown into the political arena by an Organic Law of October 2015, that organic law that damages the very roots of the raison d'être of that Constitutional Court, that literally damages its prestige, that literally damages its credibility before the public opinion and that even damages the necessary separation of powers. It is not lawful - the Venice Commission, responsible for ensuring democracy through justice, tells us - for the Constitutional Court to impose coercive fines and to remove elected politicians from office. We are told by the Venice Commission that this is an attack on the division of powers and that, although it might seem to strengthen the institution, what it does is actually bring it down to the political arena and bring us up to European references, not like that of Germany, as the Minister intended to say that there was a reference in Germany. No, in Germany the Federal Court has the possibility of for the purpose of its execution, to establish which body can execute, but never to execute by itself. Our references, the references of the organic law that modified the Constitutional Court are: Armenia, Albania, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Moldova or Ukraine; I do not know whether these are the references of international democracy to which we want to approach. We therefore agree with the need for reform, but we must unravel what has gone wrong; let us repeal the express reform. Let's listen to what they've been telling us since Venice. That said, move forward with that comprehensive reform, move forward with a new appointment policy. We like what it suggests: public call, evaluation by an independent technical committee, parliamentary scrutiny. We even propose a rejection fee so that the designations are carried out through a mechanism that ends up choosing those candidates that least cause rejection. In this way, the elect would not have been appointed by anyone and, consequently, should not be in favour of appointing anyone. On the other hand, and most importantly, let us establish parity criteria. Since 1980, the Constitutional Court has had sixty men as judges and only five women; a ratio of 12 to 1. We cannot allow this situation to be, and since this has not been done spontaneously, there is no alternative but to establish quotas. It is absolutely essential and we cannot accept the statements made by the Minister of Justice when he said that he did not find a woman with a profile of training, prestige and career sufficient to be in the Constitutional Court. It's absolutely inadmissible. Let us also talk about incompatibilities; let us establish a regime of incompatibilities, which does not repeat what happened with Mr Pérez de los Cobos, appointed president of the TC with the People's Party's Carnet in his pocket. Let's talk about years of exercise. We don't like your proposal, Mr. Girauta. You talk about the climax of the race. Frankly, we are much closer to what has been said by Compromís. This extension of the years of exercise would mean a genuine Gerontocracy - said Compromís - and we say that we would establish a profile of magistrates and magistrates away from the plurality that must reflect citizenship. With regard to the time-limits mechanisms for resolving and establishing the necessary sentences, we agree, but this is also not going to be possible without the corresponding allocation of economic and human resources, and also a body that ensures that the time-limits are complied with, not only because of the speed of the resolutions, but also because of their quality. I shall conclude, Mr President. We have tabled a number of amendments that we hope will be collected and endorsed, to ensure that the Constitutional Court is an independent body, a judge of laws, a guarantor of the rule of law and not an instrument of political attack, a misguided reflection of the political arithmetic of every moment and, unfortunately, today, a phalange more of the Aranzadi brigade, which attacks anything that is suspected of popular sovereignty or the right to decide. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u89	Thank you very much, Mr Moya. For the Socialist Group, Mr Villar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Citizens' Group intends to substantiate its proposal to reform the Constitutional Court with a statement of reasons full of statements that caricaturize reality and that directly or indirectly contribute unjustly to delegitimizing this body. The test is on how some spokesmen from other groups have spoken to him and have said the barbarities we have just heard. Citizens maintain that this body is composed of judges who come to be the product of a quota distribution of the domes of the old parties. He claims that the designations are opaque and partisan, not meritocratic, and question his professionalism by asserting that this leads to contempt of the court and causes the weakening of our rule of law and democracy. It concludes by making an overdone appeal to regain the independence and professionalism of the members of the court and the prestige of the institution. I confess that when I read these allegations I first invaded the surprise and then the sadness, with a point of legitimate indignation. I was reminded of the great doctrinal contributions, the dignity and the authorship of such leading figures as Manuel García Pelayo, Francisco Rubio Llorente, Francisco Tomás y Valiente, Luis Díez-Picazo, Miguel Rodríguez Piñero, Álvaro Rodríguez Bereijo, Pedro Cruz Villalón, Elisa Pérez Vera, Adela Asúa... [[Applauds]] I could certainly quote most of the judges, perhaps with some - very few - exceptions to which I am not referring. I was also reminded of the overall assessment that deserves the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. This is not precisely the work of mediocre judges but a great work, regardless of the legitimate criticisms that may merit concrete aspects. It is not the work of vicarious judges who are dependent on instructions or guidance that come directly or indirectly from the parties, but of great jurists who have wisely exercised the self-control that is required for all good by the high function they perform. It is not a work inspired by political decisions, but the product of broad and complex contrasting legal arguments, of deep silence and meaning and after which there is also a great work - to be said - of the lawyers of the court. Ladies and gentlemen, the court never makes politically-oriented decisions, but speaks for its legally-founded decisions, from submission to the constitutional rule and to the general rule of interpretation and application of the law, incorporating, where appropriate, alternative or complementary interpretations, dissenting or competing particular votes that contribute to transparency, self-control, constant critical discussion and constant legal evolution. With this methodology the Constitutional Court has been laying down solutions to our country's core constitutional problems, forming a particular profile of our legal system from which no theoretical or practical jurist can already ignore. No, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the work of dependent judges and vicars nor the result of party policies. I would also like to say, contrary to what the spokesman for the United States says, that the Venice Commission has not questioned the Constitutional Court at all, but has expressed reservations and criticism on some aspects of the recent reform of the Constitutional Court Act. Don't fool us. The Citizens' approach would be more correct if it had focused well on the issue and had not been so concerned about distinguishing itself from the People's Party, waving over its particular regenerationist flag. He could have maintained, as the doctrine does, that there has been a misunderstanding on the part of political parties in their role of attending the manifestation of popular will, producing distortions that need to be conjured up, keeping us completely out of institutions whose function is not at all to express the representativeness they carry, but to act independently, impartially and rigorously in the performance of their function. This approach is valid not only for the Constitutional Court, but also for the General Council of the Judiciary, for the Court of Auditors, for the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation or certain agencies and regulatory bodies. With regard to the recent process of renovating the court, it is overlooked that in order to carry out four appointments there have been, as was expected, plural proposals from the legislative assemblies of the Autonomous Communities and that there have been fifteen candidates who have finally appeared before the Senate Appointments Commission in strict application of the provisions of the Constitution, the Organic Law and the Rules of the House. And yes, four prestigious candidates have been elected who meet all the established requirements and who after their appearance have been creditors of the House's majority vote. How else could it have been done, ladies and gentlemen? In order to achieve the desired objective, the Socialist Group has in its programme measures, which in their entirety were assumed by Citizens in the agreement for the investiture concluded between our two political formations in the XI Legislature, which they will surely remember and which now replicate in this GNP with some glare. - I'm finishing up, Mr. President. The Citizens' proposal improperly mixes a partial constitutional reform of the court with a reform of the organic law, incorporating other more concrete measures that are the subject of debate in the academic doctrine, and which makes no sense to fix already in a closed way and as a mandate in a non-law proposal, which comes to be called for is the formation of a working group to study the necessary measures to strengthen the independence of the court and to guarantee reasonable times in the adoption of its pronouncements. I'm done. Our group has tabled an amendment of amendment, which we believe reflects in a more technical way the proposal made by the Citizens Group in all that we could share with this and other groups of the House to improve our institutions and, in particular, the Constitutional Court. We are open to the necessary consensus in this area, and we hope in this regard a positive response to our approach. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Chamber. Mr Martínez Vázquez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to the non-citizens' bill in order to improve an initiative that we believe has some drawbacks. We are grateful from this moment on for the willingness to deal with that amendment and we look forward to reaching a consensus text. Citizens propose to set up a working group in this House to reform the legal regime of the Constitutional Court and thus achieve the objective of strengthening its independence, ensuring the speed and effectiveness of its pronouncements. However, we understand, reading the non-citizens' proposal, which makes some of the conclusions that this working group should adopt, and that is precisely why we are proposing an amendment. We understand that, as the non-law proposal is formulated right now, it sets the objective and establishes the methodology, but it also tells us or anticipates what the results of that reflection will be. Well, we believe that what the Congressional plenary should do today is decide whether to set up such a working group on possible improvements in the organization, composition and functioning of the Constitutional Court, but without deciding in advance what its conclusions will be. That is why we propose that we address issues such as the appointment of judges, the requirements that must be met in order to be nominated as a candidate, the retirement age or any reforms that will ensure that the maximum time limits are met, which will be stated above all, but without anticipating the conclusions. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, if we enter into the substance of the matter and the content of the Citizens' initiative, which Mr Girauta has defended, I believe that it is appropriate to make some clarifications and also to raise some doubts arising from the text of the non-legislative proposal. Firstly, I would like to convey to you, with all due respect, but also with all clarity, that my group has no doubt about the professionalism and the very high legal qualifications of those who have been and are currently judges of the Constitutional Court. Mr. Girauta, I'm sorry, but we don't share your diagnosis. We do not believe that the criterion of selection has yielded to the political interests of the old parties, and we do not believe that there is contempt for the institution, on the contrary, we believe that the best jurists in Spain have passed through the Constitutional Court and could accompany my assertion of many names, but Mr Chamber has already done so. It is always opportune to reflect on possibilities for improvement, but go ahead that we do not believe that there is any problem with the suitability of the judges, with their independence or with their effectiveness, and I believe that the endorsement of this I am saying is many cases and there are many judgments - some very important and very recent - adopted unanimously, which I believe is far from that ideological polarization that you have raised in your initiative and in your intervention. Look, I understand that the Constitution and that the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court establish a system of election of judges that is similar - not equal - to that of other countries in our environment such as Germany, France, Portugal and Italy, of course each with its particularities. It is a system that is based on establishing capacity or suitability requirements and then assigning the nomination proposal to Congress, the Senate, the General Council of the Judiciary and the Government. In practice, these requirements have been interpreted broadly, the requirement bar has been raised. Where the Constitution says judges, in practice they are judges of the Supreme Court. Where the Constitution says prosecutors, in practice they have always been district prosecutors of the Supreme Court. Where he says university professors, they have always been university professors and so on. Experience shows, therefore, that appointments have been made with a much stricter requirement than the minimum criteria laid down in the Constitution and the organic law. Of course, we have nothing to object to the excellence of those who are, of those who have been judges of the Constitutional Court and the election by the Chambers, we believe that it adds an additional ingredient to that technical qualification, which is democratic legitimacy. To reinforce this idea, there are appearances before the Advisory Committee on Appointments and, let us not forget, the plenary of the Constitutional Court itself has the possibility, under article 10 of the Organic Law, to verify compliance with the requirements for the appointment of judges, i.e. democratic legitimacy, suitability and control by the body itself. Faced with this, for example, you propose that it be a committee of independent experts who are responsible for genuinely and effectively assessing the technical competence and suitability of the candidates. It will have to be addressed by the working group, but I ask two questions: Who will appoint this committee of independent experts to assess the qualifications and suitability of candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court? And who will form that committee of experts to assess the suitability of the candidates? Because you will agree with me that it is a contradiction that the members of the body that values the suitability of candidates are less suitable than the candidates they have to value. I would like to end with a more opportune reflection on the thread of Mr Tardà's speech. At a time when the Constitutional Court plays an irreplaceable role, fundamental to defending the integrity of our constitutional system, at a time when it becomes more necessary than ever to transfer confidence to citizens in the exemplary, independence and technical solvency of the Constitutional Court, at a time when it is necessary to defend the binding effectiveness, the binding enforcement of their orders and judgments, do you think it is desirable that we stage a debate on the professionalism or independence of judges? Who benefits from this debate right now?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u93	Mr. Martinez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u94	Yes, Mr. President. Perhaps it is a reflection that we should address even if we do not need to set up a working group. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the biggest crisis in an institution is not fulfilling the purpose for which it was designed and the Constitutional Court is not fulfilling one of the basic functions entrusted to it, which in turn is one of the crucial issues addressed by the 1978 Constitution itself: the territorial issue, and specifically the Basque and Catalan issues. In the preamble to the Constitution, article 2 of the Constitution, article 3 of the second transitional provision, the first additional provision and the derogation are recognized, and the so-called territorial Constitution, which was an essential part of the constitutional consensus of 1978, recognized and constitutionalized the pluralism of the State in its manifestations of nationalities, regions and historical-foral realities of self-government, recognizing to the latter its capacity for action and general and particular updating. The Constitution also created the Constitutional Court as a neutral arbitrator in the anticipation of possible conflicts between the territorial powers of the State. However, and in our view, unfortunately, in its activity the Constitutional Court has not guided the principle of political and territorial plurality, which presupposes both the autonomy and the historicity of the outside self-governments, but its vision has been to guarantee constitutional supremacy and the principle of unity of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this is the underlying reason for the crisis in the Constitutional Court, which in turn has dragged the issue and the territorial Constitution into the crisis itself. Sánchez Barrilao puts it this way: In Spain, the Constitutional Court presents itself in general not as much as a constitutional arbitrator of the autonomous State still acting as such, but as the maximum guarantor of constitutional supremacy and unity of the Constitution itself, and in the function of guaranteeing the Constitution the court must also serve the political and territorial pluralism that presupposes autonomy. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the functions of constitutional jurisdiction is to be neutral arbitrator for effective judicial guardianship from the perspective of pluralism as the founding value of the territorial political autonomous communities. And this has not been so in the court's activity. The very high conflict that exists shows that the constitutional process has not met the objective of preventing new conflicts; moreover, it has aroused them as a reaction to the weakening of the political autonomy of the autonomous communities that is intended, a reaction that is logically much stronger in those territorial political communities with more feeling, claim and exercise of self-government throughout history. I'll give you some data. In the last thirty-five years there have been almost 2,000 constitutional competition issues and in the period 2005-2014, while in Germany there were 350, in Spain there were about 1,200. The so-called judicialized autonomous State has been established, which has led to a deterioration and destabilization of the authorities of the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court and which, in our view, brings direct cause of the centralist drift of the State and which the Constitutional Court subsequently approves, especially since Judgment 31/2010, the Catalan judgment. To the foregoing it should be added that the attribution to the Constitutional Court of the coercive functions of the Organic Law 15/2015, conceived exclusively ad causam of the Catalan political question, has also contributed to the discrediting of the constitutional function of the court as a neutral arbitrator with pacifying and guaranteeing functions. Faced with this scenario, Citizens consider that the problem of the court is its professionalism - we do not share it - and intends to improve it by modifying its system of election by outsourcing the proposal of candidates, as if it were a selection of a legal advice, ignoring the profound meaning of what is a Constitutional Court in a democratic liberal system and in a composite State. Kelsen has already rejected the idea of a single and uniform model of constitutional justice calling for the structure of the institution to be adapted to the singularities of each order. Therefore, and without prejudice to professional competence, which is a requirement, the balance between the territorial powers that eventually enter into conflict must have an effective institutional projection in the guarantor of the Constitution, since it must be able to effectively represent the asymmetric composition of the territorial reality to which its jurisprudence refers and to ensure fair and neutral arbitration in conflicts between the territorial political minorities and the majority of the State as a whole. However, as Cruz Villalón has already pointed out, the renovations of the court have not been taken advantage of as the moment of renewal of the constitutional consensus, but it is further deepened if it fits in the disaffection towards a territorial model and towards the prestige of the same court. Mr President, the autonomous sensibility, and even more so if it is foral and Catalan, shines out for its absence in the rulings of the Constitutional Court, being relegated to particular votes in the best of cases. We believe that, in order to reverse the situation, the principle of territorial political pluralism should have concrete expression in the election of judges of the court so that its functioning also conforms to that founding principle of the consensus on which the 1978 Constitution is based. I end with a few words from one of the presidents of the Constitutional Court tragically murdered by ETA: Institutions gain or lose prestige for what they do but also for what is done with them. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. In the course of accepting or rejecting amendments tabled, I must ask Mr Girauta at this time whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled by his group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u98	We are negotiating a compromise with the rest of the groups that we will bring to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u99	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u100	I would remind you that, in accordance with what has been agreed at today's Board of Spokesmen, the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the policies of the Ministry of the Interior to improve the safety of motorcycle and moped users will be debated at tomorrow's session, following the item on calls to the Government, and put to the vote on Thursday.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u101	We shall therefore proceed to debate the motion which will be debated this afternoon. In particular, the motion following the urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the reforms and measures that the Government plans to promote to combat and eliminate the growing corruption in water management, in many cases linked to the privatization of water and sanitation services. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion and of the amendment tabled, Mr Arrojo Agudo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, friends, last week I explained briefly why in the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea we advocate promoting new models of participatory public management in a matter as sensitive as the management of water and sanitation services. I will tell you very briefly, as I said at the time, that the most important things in life, from my point of view, such as the management of water and sanitation services linked to human rights and citizens' rights, which by their very nature must be of universal access, are not proper to be managed from the logic of the market, not because it is contrary to the logic of the market, but because it is not the right tool. It must be done from democratic principles of transparency and citizen participation. [[The lady]] But I am not going to focus on the debate on the public or private model, what I am going to propose to you in the motion I bring to this House are three key issues. As I say, I am going to reject the debate on the public and the private, which is strongly ideological, and I am going to focus on three key issues that I understand can and should be of consensus for the vast majority of this House: transparency, the fight against corruption from our powers as a Chamber and the empowerment of democratic municipalism. On the subject of transparency, allow me a quick personal anecdote. He was heavily involved years ago, when the first state water societies were created, in a request for documentation to the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation and I found myself with the difficulties that are usually common, but the official on duty who was attending to me and I knew that the law was in favor of citizenship and that sooner or later they had to give that information. At a certain point he said to me: Mr.Rrojo, these issues are already carried by AquaEbro, which is the public company that manages at the level of the basin. I went to AquaEbro and made the same point. The answer I remember perfectly and also the face of the Lord who received me: But do you know where you came from? I said, "Yes, AquaEbro." He told me: This is a company; it's like you're going to BBVA to ask for information about the keys to your business. This is a company. I said, "Yes, but it's public, isn't it? And he said again, "Yes, yes, but it's a company." I am not going to go any further on the subject, but what these companies, these state water companies, have meant has been a fierce obscurantism, they have made the management of an issue as important as public investments in hydraulics opaque. And this has had the consequences we know of corruption. That is why we in this issue initially raised in the motion were simple and simply dismantling this state water society, although we are aware that it is not simple, it is complex. Why? Among other things, because these state-owned societies have not only made it dark and have facilitated and encouraged the corruption we were talking about the other day, but are the cover of a huge and hidden public deficit, a public deficit resulting from investments in large hydraulic works that is internally characterized as irrecoverable simply because users are not going to pay for it and we know it. Someday Europe will draw our attention to this and put a little order. In any case, that certainly complicates, we cannot rid these state societies of a pen, although I insist that we must maintain that direction, that perspective. That is why we are collecting and accepting the prudent contribution of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and we are going to focus the motion that will result in a proposal that is much simpler and very elementary: demand, demand the government to listen and comply with the explicit recommendation of the Court of Auditors in 2014; the Court of Auditors explicitly recommends that the existence of these companies be reconsidered. Rethinking is open; okay, let's make it open. At the outset, a number of conditions and rules will have to be set out to ensure that these companies are open to transparency and public control standards equivalent to those in the public administration. That is where the compromise we have prepared with the Socialist Group and the other forces is going a little bit. In the same vein, we propose to study the progressive transfer of management powers that these state societies now bring to public institutions that have proper competence in these matters. I'll give you an example. Does it make sense - I say above all parties and ideologies - that the high water service of the city of Zaragoza and the municipalities of its environment is managed from a company that is in Madrid called Acuaes? Would it no longer make sense to transfer this public competence to these municipalities and, in any case, in accordance with the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation, which depends on Madrid but is at least in the territory? It seems reasonable, and in that line we're going. With regard to the concessional fee as a payment by concessional companies to freely available municipalities, I simply refer to what the French have done in the law of transparency and the fight against corruption: to eliminate it. But, in the name of doing things on a course of action, let us say at least that if there is compensation of this kind, that it is not freely available and that it is compulsory to revert to water and sanitation services. Finally, with regard to the sanitation challenge, for which the Kingdom of Spain is seriously aware of strong sanctions in the not too distant future, we call on the Government to seriously consider serious public investment in the forthcoming budgets to empower rural municipalities to meet this challenge. In Aragon we have a negative experience of which I spoke the other day - and I am finishing - the scam of the Aragonese Pyrenees, more than a hundred villages for which there was a departure of more than 140 million that came from the state government to the autonomous community to do the works of the Pyrenees, the works of the scrubbers, as works of general interest of the state. Those 140 million were not used in this, they were dispersed in other uses, and today these municipalities are punished by the ministry with fines for not having scrubbers that the ministry itself should have guaranteed. I'm done. In short, on such a sensitive issue as water and sanitation services, I repeat, there are three key keys: transparency, relentless fight against corruption and municipal empowerment. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u103	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Rojo, two previous questions. First, that we share a small part of his interpellation the other day to the ministry and disagree in an important part. Secondly, that the motion for an inquiry that we have negotiated because we had tabled amendments that I will try to explain quickly does not coincide very much with the title. The title is very broad, it gives you a lot of publicity, but you from this rostrum have defined exactly what the transaction is: a motion that has the goal of greater transparency in Aquamed and Aquaes, which seems absolutely essential to us. We had tabled two amendments which have been included in the compromise. One, essentially so that the decision to dismantle these companies is not taken today, but that different possibilities are assessed: one is to dismantle them, the other is to rethink them, along the lines established by the Court of Auditors. And the other amendment is with regard to the concessional canon, which we are not in favour of eliminating; on the contrary, we are in favour of affecting it to works and investments linked to the water cycle. In this respect, we have tabled the amendment that we have ended up trading. We will therefore support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u105	Thank you. The next item is Mr Salvador Armendáriz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u106	Very briefly. Mr Arrojo, I thank you for the change in tone in this intervention regarding that of the inquiry, because then you made a generic complaint of a State of systemic corruption in the matter of water management everywhere that no one judges. It would therefore be appropriate for you to take him to court, but with evidence. In any case, I agree with you that water is a scarce good, poorly distributed in our country by geography and climatology, and whose management obviously requires public impetus; it requires foresight, long-term planning and, of course, ambition, an overall vision that serves to ensure that we all have and enjoy water equally anywhere. I agree with you that hydraulic works must be sustainable, but I sincerely believe that in Spain they are. In any case, I do not share that statement you make about the need to dismantle public societies. But I do appreciate the debate and its initiative because it gives me the opportunity to thank all the people - politicians, public and private entities - who for many years have made Navarra a real example in water management. Because not all political parties, not all anti-system movements, not all professors have supported an ambitious water policy in Navarre, which, by the way, today brings great wealth to the entire geography of our community. I am referring in particular to the binomial reservoir of Itoiz-Canal de Navarra, a joint State-Navarra work that serves the growth and progress of Navarra and that neither the lack of ambition of some, nor the dogmas of ecologicalism watered others, nor of course the violence, as there was at the time, managed to stop. That will be one of the challenges that the Navarro People's Union will bring to the next budgets to extend the second phase in the most ambitious flow possible. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President. I want to say in advance that Compromís will vote in favour of the motion. And we will vote in favour after seeing the scandals that we have seen, a dam in the Gallinera branch, where 2 million were paid for a fence that does not exist; an archaeological match in the river Serpis for 1,100,000 euros, or the real barbarity of the decontamination of the Flix swamp based on cans of hydrochloric acid, are just some of the barbarities, of the scandals, of the irregularities of the company Aquamed and that have cost us millions of taxpayers in overcosts and in pufos. We therefore think it is perfect that there should be more transparency. Those of us who come from municipal politics cannot agree more that the figure of the concessional canon is regulated and the money is destined for works, because we have all seen in our municipalities or next to our municipalities what these concessional canons have been destined for. In my autonomous community I have seen some ferry chartered at the expense of this concessional canon. We therefore fully support this proposal and also support rural municipalities. We understand that the Valencian interior regions also need that support that is claimed for the municipalities of the Pyrenees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Garaulet Rodríguez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, last week the T-shirts worn by the comrades of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States We can, unlike other times, say an express reality: 100% public water. And that is that in Spain it is so since the nineteenth century, when the legislation already contemplated, in the Law of Waters of 1879, the public ownership of water. In addition, the drinking water and sanitation service for the population is a public service of municipal competence and compulsory provision; a service that guarantees citizens the fulfilment of the human right to water, which must meet the requirements of potability and be provided on a permanent basis. The Constitutional Court itself - as we have spoken here this afternoon - says that a service does not cease to be public by anyone who is provided as long as it is of public ownership. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, leave now the mantra of privatization and remunicipalization, because the water is public and the service is public municipal, regardless of who manages it. [[Applauds]] The service can be managed directly or indirectly, and the agreement to do so, the mode of management, is decided by the favorable vote of the absolute majority of the municipal corporation. Moreover, today, there is no parameter that tells us that the quality of service management is better or worse because it is provided in a direct or indirect way. Moreover, there are very few indicators that allow us to assess the efficiency of water management in Spain. The reason for efficient management of services is to make the decision of the service, not based on ideological approaches, but on rationality and efficiency criteria, and supporting them with arguments of technical justification and experience. In Spain, the current situation of the full water cycle is as follows: lack of market unity in terms of fees and tariffs; lack of homogeneity and a certain degree of arbitrariness when setting tariffs; lack of transparency in public administration; lack of public participation or no public participation; lack of sanitation infrastructure; failure to meet the purification objectives of European Directive 91/271, which may lead to sanctions, loss of subsidies and the return of established aid, and an obsolete distribution and sewage network, as 40% of this distribution network is over 30 years old. These are the problems that need to be addressed urgently, but in a global way, and we need to do so with the adoption of a comprehensive water cycle management law that integrates environmental efficiency with economic efficiency and the guarantee of service and quality for citizens.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u111	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, Spain needs EUR 17 billion in investments in sanitation infrastructure in order to meet the objectives of the European Union. And the way to finance these investments could be, as you like, with an increase in the public deficit or by increasing taxes, or with European co-financing or through public-private collaboration projects. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we need a state regulation that guarantees a certain homogeneity in the application of the rules for all entities with competence in the sector; that guarantees transparency in costs and revenues; legal certainty; objectivity in decision-making; predictability of the economic model; greater efficiency and quality of service; greater investment in R & D+i; achieving economic and self-sufficient sustainability under the principle of cost recovery required by the Water Framework Directive; and a separation of legal, accounting and functional activity that improves access to information, audits and avoids undesirable practices. This certainty will allow us to attract the necessary investments in infrastructure with which we would have economic and environmental benefits. We, ladies and gentlemen, agree to know the internal control plan and the need to carry out external audits in Aquamed and Acuaes, given the seriousness of the cases of corruption that have occurred in the management of these state societies, because it is necessary to clear not only the criminal responsibilities, gentlemen of the People's Party, but also the political responsibilities of those who have covered up criminal actions. But today we have lost a golden opportunity so that we can begin to take the steps that will solve the problems of the integrated water cycle by not accepting the amendment that we have proposed. Let us hope that in the future we will be able to sit down, react and work on solving the current problems of the water cycle and solving the future lives of our citizens. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u113	Thank you very much. I have the floor for the Socialist Group, Mr Díaz Trillo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u114	Thank you very much, President. In the first place, I wanted to start by transferring my consideration to Mr Arrojo for his professional career and his social and political commitment. I cannot say the same about the minister's intervention the other day. It was precisely water corruption. It was practically limited to saying, on the one hand, that until 2012 - literally - there was no water policy in our country and that virtually nothing had been done. It seems to me that we must recognize the reality, which is the raw material of politics, in order to be able to act justly. He also referred to the sanitation deficit. Of course there is, and I think we have a very important task ahead - the teacher knows it well - especially in the small cores. I give you an example of my land, Andalusia. In 1992 28 % of the water was purified; today 90 %. It is true that they only reach 60% of the municipalities. We therefore have a formidable challenge to work from the public, fundamentally, and also from the closeness sought by the autonomous communities and the municipalities. But I wanted to refer to corruption, which is also the subject of the questioning of the spokesman for Podemos. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u115	One second, Mr. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u116	Thank you very much, President. She also said that in 2012 recruitment instructions had been promoted from the ministry, which would be very effective. You will be following until this very morning the rosary of water scandals that we are living in the last year. Precisely, of that dozen judicial investigations that there are around so many other awards it turns out that the majority were awarded in 2012. Also on those dates or before, when the People's Party Government arrived, the Director General, Mr Arcadio Mateo, was appointed, who, on the other hand, was imprisoned by the judge and, in addition, had to denounce - here - Mr Francisco Valiente for taking letters in the matter. Not only did they not notice him, but he would later be fired and at the same time had to go to the prosecution to take good note of these complaints. Officials Gracia Ballesteros and Azahara Peralta suffered the same persecution by the ministry. And not only the Director General, but also the Secretary of State, Federico Ramos, had to report and even in some statements he lied to Minister Arias Cañete. Therefore, it seems that those recruitment instructions were rather inclined towards everything we are getting to know, I repeat, through the press. It is a story that, on the other hand, puts the hair at the top and I say this because there is even an episode of an implant of hair to this director general. Apart from this implant, we talk about 120,000 euros hidden in a book. By the way, I don't know how they fit; in 500 bills, it would be 240 bills. I'm sure this gentleman didn't read that book. In other words, they were a series of treacherous episodes that show that these controls practically did not exist. In detail, the judges also talk about percentages, even 10% in commissions, of works that, as Mr Baldoví has said, are not being carried out and of a desalination in Almería that is flooding and by which the state society is willing to pay 40 million euros. All this rosary of calamities, as I say, seems that the minister did not provoke any spirit of responsibility, rather it was on the contrary, because he finished his intervention saying that we must stop from ideologies and seek the best for Spain and the Spaniards; he forgot to say because they are very Spanish, which is Mr Rajoy's technique to avoid anything that is serious or difficult for his government and to note only what, according to him, goes well for our country. Of course there are ideologies. Ladies and gentlemen, I have very little time, but as was also said in the inquiry, when the Water Framework Directive is being drafted, the Soil Law, the Energy Reform and the Hydrological Plan are being debated in Spain in 2000. Therefore, it is not only a real estate bubble but also an energy bubble and almost a hydraulic bubble. All this in favour of business and not in favour of providing a public and quality service. We must therefore return to that new culture of water, which I would say is the old culture of water, that of proximity, that which carries out, for example, the waters of Sierra Nevada, properly governing that precious asset, the heritage of all, which gives rise to a right recognized by the UN and which must be administered with justice, transparency and participation. And do not understand it as many people in the People's Party are still doing, for example Mr Arenas, who says that we should not throw so much water into the sea. That is not to understand at all which planet or country we live in. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, the motion, with its incorporation, will be supported by this group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u117	Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor in the position-setting round by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, before Mr Eritja starts, I beg you to remain silent. A few interventions are missing, but they have to have the same respect as if it were three o'clock in the afternoon. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u118	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be brief. These days the municipality of Tarrasa is a reflection of the great debate that exists on the privatization of water management. Once the seventy-five-year concession has been completed, the municipal plenary has agreed by a majority - twenty governors of twenty-seven - on a motion for a resolution to defend the recovery of direct water management or the remuneration of the service. The most serious thing is that the private corporation that so far ran a public service - let's remember, a public service - despises and casts doubt on a sovereign and democratic decision of the municipal plenary. Obviously, the answer has not been made to wait and on 19 March a mobilization was organized under the slogan 'For a public and democratic management of water'. This is the real debate. [[Applauds]] This example reflects a very widespread reality, much more widespread than we think and which reproduces the same dynamic as ever: the privatization of public rights for private interests. Water understood no longer as a universal right but as a market value. And I don't say it myself, said it in 2013 who was then executive director of the Nestlé group, Brabeck-Letmathe: Water is an edible product like any other, must have market value. And he also argued that the water supply should be privatized so that, as a society, we become aware of and overcome the current downsizing. Look at some unfortunate, unfortunate statements made from the double morale and hypocrisy of the highest representative of a corporation that is precisely the leader of bottled water. The most serious thing is that it is not an isolated opinion, but that, as Mr Pedro Arrojo has already told us, it responds to a strategy that seeks to take away a universal right through the privatization of its management. That it is a recognized universal right is indisputable. In November 2002, the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of the United Nations General Assembly adopted general comment No. 15 on the right to water, establishing that the human right to water is indispensable for a dignified human life. It also defines the right to water as the right of everyone to have sufficient, healthy, acceptable, physically accessible and affordable water for personal and domestic use. No restrictions. Indeed, as international law continues to develop the principle of universal law, the interests of large corporations seek to subtract that universal principle and equate water with a mere commodity of ordinary consumption. An approach that also clashs head-on with other proposals that come from the new water culture. The EU Water Framework Directive is a major effort to introduce a comprehensive approach to water management that can lead to the recovery of aquatic ecosystems and provide the right tools for sound water management. This would really be the great element of work. Far away, therefore, are neoliberal approaches to water recognition as a universal right and as an environmental value. In no case are we against the logic of the market, but we are against the commercialization of rights such as water. We will support the motion put forward by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on privatization and water corruption. We understand that they are proposals that not only allow the debate on the privatization of water to be kept alive, but above all affect aspects such as transparency and regulation by law of the figure of the concessional canon, a canon that has always ended up being an open door to privatization and often to the same corruption. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u119	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr García Aegean has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Very good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, you came here last week with a pair of t-shirts that seemed nice to me; even out of place, you seemed nice to me, as did my colleague Garaulet, from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. What better than a bottle drawn on a blue background to celebrate Water Day. However, when I understood the real reasons why you came with those T-shirts, I realized what you wanted, that it was to go back to Spain from the botjo and to end all the water infrastructures that we have built over the years. [[Applauds]] That's what you're trying to do, get back to Spain from the botjo. But this shirt also had a double meaning that I understand even more by reading this motion, and that is that your policies, your motions and your work in this House are as superficial and simple as the mechanism of a bottling, and that is a great truth that we have learned by reading and seeing the work that you are developing. Ladies and gentlemen, this is outrageous. It is outrageous because, do you believe that you can sow suspicion about the hydraulic works that have generated so much wealth in our country? Do you think sowing suspicion is politics? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u121	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u122	Do you believe that it is the duty of Members of this House to question the good work of civil servants and public workers? Do you think the citizens pay you the salary for that? We believe that we must focus on what is important and think why state water societies were created at the time, because their creation was justified - and I quote textually - in order to put at the service of society the resources available to society. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is a world leader in water management, it is a leader in hydraulic policy and this is thanks to the joint work between users and the Government of Spain, which must be recognised, in order to achieve the necessary investments. I have to confess to you that last Wednesday I was deeply disappointed to hear from the representative of Unidos Podemos. I never thought that a person of the intellectual size who is supposed to be Mr. Arrojo could have an intervention of as low a level as the one he had in his second intervention with the minister. In the Levant we remember you a lot, especially in what had to do with the work with Minister Narbona, and above all remember you all the regents who have to get their hands on the water every time they have to water. I also remind you that, with regard to the management or ownership of water, which is something that is often confused, you generate doubts about the model and try to confuse society by mixing both concepts based on slogans. I'm going to give you two data. One, you have spoken about the French model and I tell you that in Paris the remunerated part of water management today is being subcontracted to other companies because it is impossible for that model to properly develop the service. Two, you govern, for example, in Totana City Hall, in my region, in Murcia, and the network, with a public management of its color, United Left, has a losses of 50%. Do you want to see a 50 % loss in the supply network in Spain? I don't think so, users don't want that, but that depends on the priorities that each of them has. In terms of management, according to the data, 36% of the sector is supplied on a private-sector basis, 39% on a public-sector basis and 8% is managed directly by local corporations. There is diversification in management models; he may like some more than others, but in this, as in other topics, it must be the municipality that decides it. This must be voluntary and not compulsory, as you claim to be all that you believe: that it is mandatory to lift the fist, that it is mandatory to withdraw that crime by exalting terrorism, that it is shameful, and that many other things that, fortunately, the House is not accepting are mandatory. Ladies and gentlemen, water is neither privatized nor remunicipalised because it is a public good; it is absurd what you bring here today. The management is private, but it is that behind each company, behind each SME and behind each autonomous there are people who work for the future of Spain. It seems that when you're not behind certain companies you have to abhor those companies and when you're behind it's great, everything's fine. I think we need to be a little more serious and we need to be with the reality of the times and the day-to-day of our country. You also have a serious problem. Why? Because they want to mix water with corruption and they're wrong about the place. I say this because fifteen of the seventeen projects investigated to date are from the time of the socialist government, so I think they should look, even if only for the percentage, at the other side. By the way, and I am finishing, the representative of the Socialist Group, who I think is from Huelva, has forgotten to talk about a people that has been famous, that is Aljaraque, where, according to the media, there has been a case in which, in order to avoid a motion of censure, a woman councillor from Podemos has been placed. He forgot to talk about Aljaraque being you of Huelva. I have just been told, and I wanted to refresh you a bit of the memory on that issue that you have forgotten, as you have also forgotten to remember that Federico Ramos, Secretary of State of this Government, was declared innocent and none of you has asked him for forgiveness for all the barbarities you have said about him over this time. That says a lot about the human size of the people who occupy those seats. I'm finishing up. This initiative comes to pose again in a superficial way possible solutions to problems that you do not know or want to know. Perhaps you should copy and paste less of Google - today a news has come out saying that you had actually copied an initiative on freedom of expression and registered it in the House - and more dedicated to study and investigate seriously and thoroughly the problems that affect our citizens. All I have to say is that we are going to work towards transparent water management, which is the time for your ladies and gentlemen to break the bottle and enter the 21st century. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u123	I ask Mr Arrojo Agudo whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled. [[Rumors]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u124	Madam President, we have already brought to the Bureau a compromise that includes several groups in the House.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u125	Thank you very much. The vote will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, the votes will begin; they will take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote, first of all, to take into consideration the proposed law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the amendment of Law 17/2006 of 5 June on State-owned radio and television, in order to regain the independence of the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation and pluralism in the parliamentary election of its organs. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 337 votes in favour, 333 votes in favour, 334 votes in favour, 334 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u127	It's approved. [[Applause.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Group of the United People's Party We can-In Comú Ponde-In Marea, standing up, addressing the public gallery.-Applause from the guests in the public gallery]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the services of the House to remind the people in the gallery of their obligation not to make any kind of demonstration. Thank you so much. [[Rumors]] - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, OF THE RIGHTS AND GUARANTEE OF THE DignITY OF PERSONS BEFORE THE FINAL PROCESS OF THEIR LIFE. [[File number 122/000051]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u128	We then proceed to vote on the consideration... ladies and gentlemen! A little respect! [[Rumors]] We turn to the consideration of the proposal of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the rights and guarantees of the dignity of the person before the final process of his life. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 337 votes in favour, 314 votes in favour, 315 votes against, 5 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u129	It's approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u130	We shall then proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals, as agreed in the course of the debate. Firstly, the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on the replacement of the right to non-professional caregivers in the system of dependency on social security contributions and we will vote on it in its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 116 against, 127 abstentions, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u131	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u132	We then proceed to vote on the non-law proposal of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the reform of the Constitutional Court. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, the Socialist and Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 242 against, 89 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u133	It's approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u134	We continue with the votes on the motions following urgent appeals. Motion following an inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the reforms and measures that the Government plans to promote to combat and eliminate the growing corruption in water management, in many cases linked to the privatization of water and sanitation services. The vote will be taken on the amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, de Esquerra Republicana y Mixto. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 178 against, 125 abstentions, 32.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-28-CD170328.u135	It's approved. [[Applauds]] The meeting was suspended until tomorrow. It was seven and thirty minutes in the afternoon.
