ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. We begin with questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mrs Margarita Robles Fernández, Member of the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, as you know, we are experiencing very difficult political moments in Spain that make political solutions more necessary than ever and that make life more necessary than ever in this Parliament, which is where politics has to be done. Regrettably, neither you nor your Government are energizing political life in Parliament. I'm just going to give you some data. So far, you have vetoed 45 motions for law tabled by the opposition and by the autonomous parliaments. Of course, they are always vetoes in laws that affect the rights of workers and the rights of the most disadvantaged. And another fact. As far as the legislature goes, we have only passed two laws - what shame, two laws! - and only seven laws are in the process. Meanwhile, you have passed 21 decree-laws. And I no longer speak to you about the many amendments with which you bury the projects that come from the opposition. Look, my parliamentary group wants this to be a legislature in which the reform of the Constitution is a fundamental aspect, because we believe in its model and want to improve it, but we also want social policies and you, with your intervention, are vetoing all social policies. Therefore, at a time when the role of Parliament, the role of politics, is fundamental, what are you going to do to boost parliamentary activity, to which you are permanently putting all kinds of vetoes and obstacles? Today, we see that even the Vice-President of the Government does not want to answer the question posed by the deputy spokesman of my parliamentary group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u4	Thank you very much. Mrs Robles, I agree with you on one thing, that we are experiencing difficult times, but I do not think that there is any lack of dynamism in this Parliament. In any case, the role of the Government is not that, the role of the Government is to govern, which is not small; to submit to the control of this House, which we do, and to ensure that the bills or decree-laws that we have submitted are passed. You said that only two laws have been passed. Nine bills and 19 royal decree-laws have been referred, 18 of which have been validated in this House. I believe that this is a reasonable level of adoption of legislative initiatives. In any case, it is not written anywhere that a Parliament is more dynamic because it passes more laws, sometimes it is better that there is less regulation and that there is more freedom for economic and social actors. And the same goes for the vetoes, we do not veto things because, yes, that is something that is a right of the government that is enshrined in the Constitution so that the budget can be controlled and, according to the data given to me, if all the very commendable initiatives of the opposition had been approved, we would have increased the deficit by three points in terms of the legislature, that is, EUR 30 billion. You will understand that this makes little sense and that we have to adjust to our budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs. Robles.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u6	You, Mr Rajoy, always work with the data you give because you have little interest in parliamentary life. If it seems to you that two laws passed throughout the legislature are sufficient, we do not agree. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u7	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u8	In any case, I will tell you that for the Socialist Parliamentary Group it is going to be essential to control the activity of your Government because opposing it is also State work. Don't you ever forget that. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u9	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u10	Thank you very much. Mrs Robles, I am not going to repeat the arguments I gave you in my first speech, but I would like to remind you that the Government has answered 1128 oral questions in this Parliament, 36 000 written questions, appeared on 197 occasions and answered 130 questions. I myself have answered more than 80 oral questions in this House, to 21 in the Senate and have regularly appeared in the last two or three months: to discuss the issue of Catalonia, to discuss why I am present at the National Court and also in a motion of censure tabled here by Mr. Iglesias. We have referred two agreements on objectives of stability and expenditure limit, nine bills - tomorrow, by the way, three - 18 royal decree-laws and there are more commissions and subcommittees than ever before. Therefore, if you believe that there is a problem of lack of parliamentary dynamism, you may have to look into whether you or some other groups in this House have any responsibility. The government certainly doesn't have any, it comes when they call it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF Iglesias Turrion, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America, we can in any way express to the President of the Government, what are your suggestions to the President of the Government on judicial findings that his participation in the national level has been financed illegally through the corruption plot called Gürtel? [[File number 180/00387]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u11	Question of the deputy Don Pablo Iglesias Turrión, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u12	Thank you, Madam President. How do you feel, Mr President, that the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office has proven that your party at national level has been illegally financed through a corruption plot called Gürtel?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u13	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u14	I have to think that you are referring to the so-called Gürtel trial or case, which is currently at the National Court. Well, I'll explain now. You are talking about elections held more than fourteen years ago in two municipalities in the Madrid region where donations could have been made to pay for the campaigns. In that trial, the People's Party is not accused; I'm not saying he's not convicted, I'm saying he's not accused. If he appears as a possible civil liability on a gainful basis and to be a civil liability on a gainful basis, it is necessary, as you know, that the offence is unknown. Therefore, what is being said in that trial is that the People's Party in the elections held 14 years ago in two municipalities in Madrid did not know if anyone had made any donations. That's what there is and you translate it saying that the People's Party has been illegally financed. The only conclusion I can draw is that the Inquisition returns forcefully. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u15	Mr. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u16	Nobody expectations the Spanish Inquisition said the Monty Python, Mr. Rajoy. [[Rumors]] I really recommend them.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u17	Silence, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u18	It is certainly a pity, Your Honor, that you have not been able to count on Mr Moix at the head of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office on this occasion because, no doubt, he could have mediated very well between you and justice. I will ask you something, Mr President, to return to legality. Because if you do not return to legality it will be very difficult for us to dialogue in this House. Mr President, there is no dialogue with those who are outside the law and outside the Constitution. [[Rumors]] So I'm going to ask you a very specific question, Mr. Rajoy. Are you going back to legality? Don't answer me with ambiguities, answer me with a yes, let's go back to legality or not, let's not go back to legality. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] [[Applauds]] It is not a minor issue, it is an urgent issue because every day your party passes it seems to be more out of the law. I say this to you because of your alleged isolated senator, Mrs. Pilar Barreiro, who is being investigated; the Supreme Court has opened a case for prevarication, misappropriation and conspiracy in the framework of another plot of many years ago, the Punica, which perhaps is not so many. I'll give you and your partner Mr. Casado advice, it's good not to repeat the story, lest you end up like Mr. Ignacio González, in prison. [[Applauds]] Finally, I repeat to you once again, return to legality, although for that you will have to apologize to the Spaniards, to clean up your corrupt party and to return the stolen money, and perhaps you also have to change your seat so that you can have a seat that has not been financed with black money. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u19	Mr. President, go ahead. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u20	Thank you very much for your intervention, Mr Iglesias. Look, I respect and will continue to respect always what the prosecution and justice say, some promote the action of justice and the others judge. But I know this brings you carelessly, it's not my fault, it'll be yours. I have here dozens of your statements in which you put back and a half the prosecution or the justice system when you don't like their resolutions. That is, when something interests you, as in this case, it uses it as an argument of authority, although, as it happens here too, what it does is to manipulate reality. That way it's pretty complicated to take you seriously. In any case, put to the question, I would like you to respond to the statements already made in Mr. Enrique Rioboo's Senate, his former member of Channel 33, in which he accuses you in the framework of the Committee of Inquiry into Party Financing: witness to the agreements between Pablo Iglesias - who is you - and Juan Carlos Monedero for the financing of his party by Iran and Venezuela. [[Rumors]] [[Laughter]] He explains it to us and we're all happy. [[Applauds]] - OF MR JORDI XUCLA I COSTA, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE POLITICAL SITUATION OF CATALUNIA VALUE? [[File number 180/00378]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u21	Question by Mr Jordi Xuclà i Costa, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Mr. Xuclà.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, on Monday, President Puigdemont asked for a dialogue and a meeting. He did not once again accept the dialogue and did not agree to meet with a democratically elected president. As a result, today there are political prisoners in Spain and is ready to activate article 155 of the Constitution. [[Rumors]] Do you think that's how the problems will be solved?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. It is a matter that we are undoubtedly all concerned about. We had a debate - your colleague Mr Campuzano spoke - last week on it and I would like to start my speech on this very issue. You can ask me here on the subject and I have an obligation - and I am happy to do so - to answer it, but in Catalonia Parliament has been closed and it has been a month and twelve days since anyone can ask what is happening there. Therefore, the ladies and gentlemen of the Catalan opposition, who also represent the citizens of Catalonia, cannot ask Puigdemont why he does not explain to all the Spanish citizens, and particularly those of Catalonia, whether or not he has declared independence, which is what he has been asked to do. It is logical, reasonable and sensible to answer whether or not you have declared independence, and if you have declared it, you are asked to rectify it. It seems to me that it is an easy way to answer the questions that have been raised to you, it is something that is provided for in the Constitution and I think that you too should make an effort to convince Mr Puigdemont that he does not create any more problems than he has created because if he does not force the Government to make decisions that would undoubtedly be better not to take ever. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Xuclà, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Speaking of paralyzed parliaments, I think Mrs Robles has illustrated this in depth. Mr President, you cannot suspend reality, and that is what you seem to want to do; the reality is 9 November, the referendum of 1 October and an absolute sovereignist majority in Parliament. It was due, it must be done politics recognizing this reality, but you have tried a thousand times to deny a reality that is stronger than you and that you will see that it will be in the future. The application of Article 155 would be a failure of policy and dialogue, it will not resolve the dispute, it is a mistake, a serious mistake; indeed, of effective implementation more than dubious and difficult. Mr President, what do you know of the powers exercised for thirty-seven years by the Government of the Generalitat to expropriate them and to put them in the hands of brokers? Are they going to dissolve a democratically elected parliament? What image does it give when you do not want to agree to meet a democratically elected president? Mr. President, this wound is going to leave sequelae. You set reality on fire with lies, no palliatives. We demanded the cessation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, a minister, a member of his cabinet who viciously lied saying that no Spanish language is taught in the schools of Catalonia, and said it as a diplomatic action that would have to be the head of Spanish diplomacy. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Mr President, speaking of schools - this is a very sensitive issue - do not dare to touch one of our most precious treasures: a cohesive education system that has educated us in freedom, exactly the freedom that you now want to take away from us. [[Rumors]] [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. Frankly, I think the government has acted with restraint and prudence - and I have been criticized for that - and I think it is sensible. You should realize what you've done. They have liquidated the Spanish Constitution, the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, they have passed laws that, all of them, have been declared contrary to the Constitution by the Constitutional Court, yesterday the law of the referendum, on the basis of which they made a referendum that was also declared null and void by the Constitutional Court and by the Electoral Board. They do not let the opposition speak; they do not let it speak, as they did not leave it on September 6 and 7, which will pass into history as the worst of Spanish parliamentarianism, nor are they doing it now, when there are no sessions like this in the Parliament of Catalonia. The only thing I ask Mr Puigdemont to do is to act with wisdom, to act with balance, to put forward the general interests of all the citizens, of all the Spaniards and of all the Catalans. Simply - and it is not so difficult - I ask you to answer a question: have you declared Catalonia's independence or not? Because you will understand that if you have declared Catalonia's independence, the Government is obliged, because the Constitution says so, to act in a way and if you have not, we will be able to speak here in Parliament, as we have offered you all the parliamentary groups, for as long as you want, within the framework of the Constitution. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. - OF ALBERT RIVERA DÍAZ, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE SEMINAR Vice-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: HOW DO THE GOVERNMENT FIND THE SITUATION IN CATALUONE AFTER THE RESPONSIBILITY OF GENERALITY TO ITS REQUEST ON THE UNILATERAL DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE? [[File number 180/00391]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u30	Questions now addressed to the Vice-President of the Government, Minister of the Presidency and for Territorial Administrations. First of all, he asked Mr Albert Rivera Díaz, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u31	Thank you, President. Vice President, we finally got here, where we didn't want to get. Mr Puigdemont and Mr Junqueras clearly had a plan, two years ago it was written. It was not necessary to be Sherlock Holmes to know where the plan was: they wanted to declare independence, they never wanted to hold a referendum, they never wanted to vote; in fact, they did not want to vote or call elections. Therefore, in view of this situation and after liquidated the Constitution and the status of autonomy in the tragic week of September of European Parliamentism, I would like to raise a number of points, Madam Vice-President. First of all, I ask the government to regain Catalonia's autonomy because they have suspended Catalonia's autonomy, the Parliament is closed. Those who claim to be Democrats are actually coupsmen who have closed down the Catalan Parliament, which cost a lot to reopen it after forty years of dictatorship. And now they've shut down and plugged Parliament back in. There are no control sessions, Members have no right. I announce that we are going to go to the Constitutional Court to ask for amparo from the opposition deputies, at least the twenty-five citizens' deputies. Given this situation of liquidated Catalonia's autonomy, I believe that applying the Constitution is no longer an option, it is an obligation. We are obliged to implement the Constitution and to restore the rights and freedoms of all Catalans. That is why, Vice-President, who have come to this point - twenty-four hours before the Government has to meet tomorrow to apply Article 155 and to call elections in Catalonia - I would like to ask you what measures the Government intends to take tomorrow at that Council of Ministers, what deadlines we have on the table and when the Senate is to be convened, because we are obviously in an emergency procedure. In short, we want to know what the government's action plan is twenty-four hours away from, surely, the most important decision that a government in democracy must make in autonomy, in this case in Spanish democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u32	Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Rivera, as you know, last Wednesday the Government - because it also spoke to you and your parliamentary group - sent a request to Mr Puigdemont with a very simple question and Mr Puigdemont has not been able to say either yes or no. That is something that neither you nor I knew when you asked the question on Friday, but what you and I did on Friday and now is what the Government is going to do because we have talked about it. That requirement is firm, that requirement expires in just over twenty-four hours. If this requirement is not met, Mr Puigdemont will cause the application of Article 155. And I believe that we agree on the objectives of that precept, which undoubtedly must be, first of all, to regain Catalonia's autonomy; secondly, to guarantee the rights of all Catalans; thirdly, to bring to rest all the citizens of Catalonia, because it is intolerable that the people living in Catalonia simply because Mr Puigdemont has placed them in this situation; fourthly, to preserve the economic recovery, because the economic policy of some managers in Catalonia is bringing it to the brink of recession, and, lastly, my lord, I would like to remind you of one thing: we apply the Constitution always, and Article 155 is indeed to apply the Constitution and we will do so in the way that we have always done, speaking with you and with whom it constitutes the absolute majority of this House, seeking that this precept is the recovery of self-government and the return to legality for the benefit of the Catalans. I believe that we have come this far together and I hope that we will then continue to do so because, beyond any other issue, it is about the citizens, the Catalans and the Spanish as a whole, being able to trust and trust the institutions of Catalonia again. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u35	Vice President, I was asking you why we didn't know how you were going to apply 155. We do know that you have made the request, but neither have we shared whether to do it as a test or to make a request and to order you to cease contempt of the Constitutional Court. But we are so loyal to the Constitution, and we have so much supported this Government that we were the only ones who brought a motion here to support the Government and do what you do - which we do not yet know what you are going to do - we will support you in defending the Constitution and freedom in Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u36	Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Rivera, have the absolute tranquillity and confidence that this Government will speak to your parliamentary group before launching a measure in which we want not only the absolute majority of the Senate but a large majority of this House to find the best solution for Catalonia. I believe that at the moment the citizens are grateful that the political parties, the Socialist Party, the People's Party and its own, let us look above all for Spain before looking for opposition, and that will always be this government. [[Several Members: Very well]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u38	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN TARDA I COMA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHICH FORMS TO THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT DOES THE PRESIDENT'S RESPONSIBILITY OF THE GENERALITY OF CATALUNIA RESPONSE TO HIS REQUEST? [[File number 180/00376]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u39	She also asked the Vice-President of Mr Joan Tardà i Coma of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u40	Madam Vice-President, are you prepared to accept the proposal of the Government of Catalonia to establish bilateral talks? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u41	Thank you very much. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Tardà, as you will see, the monitoring sessions are being held in this House, not as in the Parliament of Catalonia. And we are so democratic that you can even come this morning and ask the question that you think is appropriate and that it is not even on the agenda, because you were asking me the same thing as Mr Rivera and the same thing I am answering Mr Rivera. However, you here seem to be great at giving us all lessons in democracy. He's asking about bilateral relations. I do not know what greater bilaterality than that which you can appear in this House, in which you have been as a Member for no more than thirteen years, which is a democratic Parliament and where sovereignty and, if I may say so, the mediation of the Spanish people as a whole resides. Thank you very much, Mr. Tardà. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u43	Mr. Tardà, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u44	I was afraid of the answer, Madam Vice-President, and I wonder why they trust so little in Spain, why they are so unable to regain the lost consent of millions of Catalans, as to reject dialogue and mediation as a formula for conflict resolution. Less to this, I see them prepared to do anything against a defenceless people: to drown us economically, to disqualify, to fine, to seize assets, even to end autonomy by applying article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, even to speak of illegalizing democratic parties. And cast out by Citizens and with the satisfaction of the Socialist Party the political prisoners in Catalonia have returned: two innocent men, two men with an impolite trajectory of commitment... [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u45	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u46	... of commitment to civic and peaceful democracy today they are in prison. Do you believe that the triumph of 'a for them' in political, social, judicial and police matters will make you winners? Being only the reason for the force, on the other hand, makes them losers because they dynamite the democratic values of Spanish society. It is also sterile because, at greater repression, it is more convinced of the value of freedom and, therefore, for us, of the value of independence. In the name of our freedom, on behalf of what it represents to be free men and women of the twenty-first century, I say to you that we will defend our institutions, our leaders, our social cohesion and our democratic model, which is why we are convinced that democracy is always, always, a winner, even though it is true that it can cause us to suffer. And today, even if it may seem naive, I ask you, I ask you, I humbly demand you, from democrat to democrat, to stop machines and to establish bilateral talks; to triumph over dialogue and to triumph over intermediation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u47	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. From Democrat to Democrat, as you say, let me not give you lessons but do make some notes on democracy. The first point of democracy is judicial independence, because except in the Law on Legal Transition that they approved - by the way, on a visa and not seen as a parliamentarian - in the Parliament of Catalonia, in Spain the separation of powers works and this government does not realize because nothing corresponds to the judicial decisions. The second point of democracy is the equality of Spaniards before the law. And my question is this: why did the Generalitat of Catalonia and the Parliament of Catalonia accuse those who protested and those who besieged the Parliament of Catalonia and directed actions against them and now, however, consider that they are political prisoners who besiege a judicial commission? Equality before the law, Mr Tardà. Why did those who protested and harassed the Parliament of Catalonia call them prisoners of attack and attack on the institutions and now those who protested before a judicial commission and besieged it call them political prisoners? Equality before the law, Mr Tardà. Third question of democracy. In democracy the rulers respect the law and tend to care for the well-being of the citizens and the Generalitat of Catalonia only attends to the independence that defend a few and has stopped defending the well-being of the Catalans as a whole, and I say this to you because your party is responsible for economic management in Catalonia, which has led every day to 100 companies leaving Catalonia, which has led to the sinking of the tourism sector in the community, which is ending with the brand of Catalonia and the brand of Barcelona, you, the economic leaders of the Generalitat. Last point of democracy. This is a democratic parliament, democratic affairs and the big issues are decided in this Parliament, and you are only interested in coming here to control the government, to which, by the way, you are not subject in the Catalonian Parliament. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u49	Thank you very much. - OF MR ISABEL MARIA BORREGO CORTÉS, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT ASSESSMENT DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE G6 OF MINISTERS OF THE INTERIOR RECENTLY CELEBRATED IN SEVILLA? [[File number 180/00379]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u50	Question is now addressed to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mrs Isabel María Borrego Cortés, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we have a problem in Europe that is massive migration from third countries, a problem that concerns not only the importance it has acquired, but also the enormous human silence it has, the difficulties that thousands of people who leave their countries leaving their families and ways of life are often victims of deception by unscrupulous people, by the mafias. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u52	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u53	Only in the last few days has my autonomous community, Murcia, experienced an unprecedented migration crisis with more than 526 people rescued in the last two weeks. A common European Union migration policy is needed. We must work continuously with the European institutions and the Member States to tackle the phenomenon of migration. Spain has led many of the common migration policies and is a benchmark for the Union. Not many countries are doing it better than us, to which is added the difficulty of being an entry country. The Government is not seeing numbers in the migration phenomenon, but people, unlike other political forces. From the People's Group we bet on legal and orderly immigration, because it seems to us to be the best way to treat people and fight against the mafias. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u54	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u55	That is being supportive and not boasting of being supportive. We also want to work with the countries of origin, and many of the policies must go in that direction. Migration must never be mixed with jihadist terrorism and the G6 meeting in Seville has not been done; it has been two different items on the agenda. Jihadist terrorism has struck almost all the countries of the European Union, ours very recently, and we are seeing that we must work against violent radicalisation. That is why, Minister, my question is whether you can give us an assessment of the recent G6 summit in Seville. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u56	Thank you very much. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u57	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, the assessment will be made within the prudence that must have been given the sensitive nature of the issues. Yes, I would like to say that the results have been satisfactory. Following the summit in Paris, the President of the Government, Mr Rajoy, proposed to the other three members of the summit, the President of France, the President of Italy and the President of Germany the holding of the G6. The G6 has been held and is a flexible format that has allowed us to invite the Commissioner for Migration and the Commissioner for Security, as well as the Minister for the Interior of Morocco, and the conclusions have been highly positive. First of all, we have been dealing with the phenomenon of migratory pressure; this phenomenon, which, as you said very well, Your Honor, has a deep social root, because, as a result of the economic crisis that many countries are experiencing, many people are forced to take the risk and the danger of going through different countries and then having to cross the Mediterranean and be able to reach the European Union. That is why we have concluded with certain measures. First, we have agreed that it is necessary to provide a multidisciplinary response that includes legal channels of access, while we must continue to fight against illegal trafficking in persons. The instruments and procedures for responding from the European Union and resolving migration problems need to be amended. We have also agreed on the need to address the refugee-migrant gap, to coordinate our asylum and refugee policies in order to provide a harmonised response. From the point of view of jihadist terrorism, we have agreed on key issues, such as the commitment to exchange information in order to be more operational; to intensify measures to control explosives precursors; to strengthen the closest relationship between traders and authorities; to protect public places; to work on the balance between privacy and security in dealing with communications so that they are accessible to data and prevent crime; to promote public-private collaboration and intelligence cooperation; and, logically, to prevent radicalization and something very important, to defend the rights of victims of terrorism. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u58	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF FRANCESC XAVIER DOMENECH SAMPER, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS, WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: IS THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDERING THAT EXCEPTIONAL MEASURES ARE APPROVED TO BE IMPLEMENTED, AS ONLY A TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON THE MODERNIZATION OF THE AUTONOMIC STATE, THE CRISIS OPENS WITH CATALUNIA? [[File number 180/00377]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u59	Questions now to the Minister of Justice. Question by Mr Don Francesc Xavier Domènech Sampere, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Does the Government consider that applying exceptional measures, as well as opening only a temporary commission on the modernization of the autonomous state, are the appropriate prescriptions for resolving the open crisis with Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u61	Thank you very much. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u62	Thank you, President. Your Honor, you ask me about the tools for managing crises. Look, I think when there's a crisis, whatever it is, there's no better tool than obeying the rules and obeying the laws. In democracy the rules of coexistence are the laws passed by citizens through their legitimate representatives. Therefore, complying with the law, complying with the Constitution and opening up spaces for dialogue seems to me to be the best tools that can be managed in a democracy to resolve a crisis. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Domènech.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u64	Thank you, Madam President. We have already asked this question a thousand times and in a thousand different ways, and you have answered it a thousand times with the same misery. They are eternally the same, and every time you insist on doing the same, applying the same recipes, the situation gets worse; we are talking here and the situation gets worse every day. Because you can fill your mouth with dialogue, but in reality there is only denial, humiliation, fear and repression. You are the government with the most reprobated ministers in history, among them yourself; you are the government with the party with the most cases of corruption in history; you are the government that drives the worst territorial crisis in history; you are the government of disaster, that is your only reality. In the face of a state crisis, the solution does not go through the requirements of Groucho Marx, what you said, what you answered me and what you will have to say, or prisons. You told the journalists - in addition, I think it was you directly, Minister - in a corridor they made on 12 October, that there would be two detainees, as indeed happened. Happy way to celebrate Hispanicity Day, Minister. You made the prosecution ask two leaders of a civil movement that has always been non-violent, despite you. You make fiction any notion of separation of powers in this country. You are not a Minister of Justice, Mr Catalá. I don't know what he is, but he's not a minister of justice. You are going to apply Article 155, you are not going to dialogue, and you are going to destroy a founding pact of the 1978 constitutional process with the recovery of Catalonia's self-government. We no longer have another, we will create a broad democratic front to normalize the situation, and it will be a broad democratic front of plural forces to end you and your policies as well, and those who do not want to be on this broad front, those who want to continue supporting the disaster, those who agree commissions only with the People's Party, there they are, because, at best, they will be the alternative of nothing, the alternative of a bipartisanism that long ago died and resisted to understand... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u65	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u66	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I believe that in order to be able to resolve a crisis like the one you are raising, it would be very good to know what the cause is, what the origin is and who is responsible. You surely know Catalonia well, Your Honor; do you know - as you call it - any person who lives in Catalonia and who is in favour of the validity of the Constitution who is crushing judges, prosecutors, mayors, councillors, teachers or the media? Do you know any of those characteristics that you are doing? Do you know of any secessionist person who is squandering judges, prosecutors, mayors and councillors who were not in favour of the referendum or the media who are not collaborators with the Government? Do you know any of them? Who's responsible for what's going on, Your Honor? Because this position of equality between each other seems to me to completely confuse the solution. We will always be on the side of all the citizens of Catalonia and all of Spain and we will be solving their problems. Do you know what is happening, from an economic point of view, in Catalonia? Do you know what is happening with tourism in Barcelona? Do you know what is happening to companies that are fleeing Catalonia because of the insecurity and uncertainty that the Government of the Generalitat is creating in Catalonia? Do you know that reality? Do you think we should think that it is the government that has the responsibility and responsibility for what is happening? You tell me about a government that works from denial, humiliation and repression. Your Honor, as long as you continue to confuse reality absolutely, it will be very difficult to find solutions. We will be as always, from dialogue and seeking solutions; but, of course, solutions within the law and the Constitution. Do you believe that any ruler, a mayor, a councilman, can be asked to break the law? What would that be? Prevaricate, right? You who are so firm in the face of corruption, what would you say about a mayor who violates the law? Can the President of the Government be asked to fail to comply with the law, to fail to comply with the Constitution? What would we be talking about then? Only from the Constitution, only from the law, can we find formulas for dialogue, and the dialogue we have been practicing permanently, during this legislature and for many years, financing the Generalitat, generating more investment in infrastructure in Catalonia than in any other autonomous community, always being on the side of the interests of the citizens of Catalonia and, therefore, being where the Government belongs: next to the general interest, Your Honor. [[Applauds.-The United Parliamentary Groups We Can-In Common Can-In Sea, Republican Left of Catalonia and Joint PDeCAT Group, stand up, show several different posters in which you read: 'Free Jordi Sánchez Jordi Cuixart', 'Llibertat Jordi Sàmchez Jordi Cuixart', 'Free Jordi Sánchez Jordi Cuixart', 'Free political prisoners Sánchez Cuixart']]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, withdraw the posters immediately - Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure - if I do not call them to order and I am obliged to apply the Rules of Procedure in accordance with Rule 103. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I tell you once again, I call you to order now; withdraw the posters, ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I call you to order for the second time. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you once again that this is the Congress of Deputies, that we are here on behalf of the citizens and that the spectacle they are giving does not correspond to what we represent. Here there is freedom, here you can talk, but here the ideas are defended with the word, not with the show. I remember all your ladies and gentlemen, some of them do it in one way and others in another, but here we come to defend ideas and respect for freedom with the word, and not doing shows like the ones we've been living with lately. There are also shows with gestures; there are also shows with offensive words. So I remind you ladies and gentlemen that this Parliament is never going to get contaminated while I am in the presidency. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - of Mrs Noelia Vera Ruiz-Herrera, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America, we can in any way form the Minister of Justice: how does the commitment of the Minister of Justice in the fight against corruption affect to know the figure of EUR 245,000 that went out of the GÜRTEL to Genoa to pay electric fields? [[File number 180/00388]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u68	Question by Mrs Noelia Vera Ruiz-Herrera, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Catalá, let's see if we have a little bit more luck with you than with the president. How do you rate the figure of 245 000 euros that went from Gürtel to Genoa directly to pay for election campaigns, according to the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office? [[Mr. Hernando Fraile: Where is the transfer?]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u70	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u71	Thank you, President. Your Honor, what I fundamentally value is that in Spain the institutions work, the separation of powers works, the judges do their work independently, the prosecution acts with complete autonomy, the police investigate; the institutions work absolutely the same for all. Therefore, it is not necessary to use this forum, Parliament, to harass, to pressure the judges and to ask them to do the opposite of what a judge with absolute qualifications and professionalism based on accredited facts has decided. Therefore, what I value is that the institutions work; I hope you also think the same and do not try to coerce the judges from here. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u72	Mrs. Vera.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u73	Mr Catalá, we have just listened to you and over the last few weeks we have heard you speak with great pride of the defense of the unity of Spain, of patriotism, of the defense of the framework of legality that absolutely no one can question, I have just told my colleague Domènech. But the reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that you have been using any excuse within the framework of defending that legality to re-act in other times, to enter the media and steal ballot papers, to repress Catalans, to cut rights and freedoms and to return to the time - forgive for the posters but things must also be said - of political prisoners. Actually, while we're all looking at Catalonia, the image that I think best defines your strategy is this, this is what's happening to you, you're literally trying to cover the corruption of the People's Party with flags of all the Spanish. [[Shows a photograph showing the headquarters of the Popular Party in Madrid with a flag of Spain]] You - and indeed that is why you are reprobated - have used the judiciary as you wanted, that is why you are reprobated, because you have created a political police to fight against political opponents and to defend the corruption of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Also, Mr Catalá, because during all this time in a call to patriotism we have been made to all the Spaniards and all the Spaniards to tighten our belt to get out of the crisis together when the reality is that only with the 800 euros that Gürtel is costing us we could have guaranteed the quality of our education, our health and pensions for a very good time. But all of this does not matter to you, how embarrassing is the reply of the President of the Government; it does not matter that I have to go to the National High Court with a sorry image of this country to tell lies before justice and of Spain; it does not matter that there is an official anti-corruption report saying that they have paid for two election campaigns with money from the mafia; it does not matter how many people's party office they finish or are already in jail. You think that the Spanish and the Spanish are literally fools and are trying to naturalize theft and lying. So I ask you, Mr Catalá, where is your defense of legality?, where is the defense of Spain?, where is your patriotism? Patriotism is working, not stealing people and being honest people, Mr Catalá. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u74	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u75	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I recognize that I have some difficulty in understanding correctly whether I am going to tell the prosecution what it has to do or whether I have to answer why the prosecution demands a responsibility from the People's Party. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u76	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u77	It should not be very true if the second is the case, as has happened recently. I would ask you a little more rigour in the sense that - as you very well know, even if you don't say it here - it is not a sentence. It seems that it is you who deliver judgment here in the chair, on television, on social media. No, the judgements are handed down by the judges and, therefore, a record of the prosecution's findings has the value that it has at the procedural stage in which it is in. As you well know, that someone is given the status of a profitable participant means that you have been able to have an economic benefit that is yet to be demonstrated. In any case, it is also a requirement to have that status as a gainful participant not having known that an offence was being committed. Therefore, Your Honor, I would recommend a little peace of mind, respect for the presumption of innocence, waiting for sentences to be handed down, not to put on the robe, because I know you have not yet made the oppositions of judges. Therefore, respect for the judges, respect for the work of the prosecutors, who are reaching their conclusions there. Look how you like this writing of conclusions that you bring here and yet you tell me that it is I who condition the work of the prosecution; it is quite contradictory in any case. Your Honor, I believe that what we should be able to do is make proposals for the future. If you want to keep looking back, you will know, I think it will give you very little electoral revenue, the truth, but it is my opinion, it will give you very little electoral revenue. Let's think about the future. I thought we were going to talk here about what we have to do to prevent cases of corruption such as those in which some of those who sit in those seats and who belong to your party are protagonists, Your Honor. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u78	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED SUSANA SUMELZO JORDAN, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHEN YOU HAVE PROVIDED TO ELIMINATE GAS RESTRICTIONS TO LOCAL ENTERPRISES CONCERNING THE DEFICIT, WHICH ARE THE MAJORITY, SO THAT THEY CAN RENEW THEIR RESOURCES AND DEVELOP SOCIAL INTEREST PROGRAMMES REQUESTED BY CITIZENSHIP? [[File number 180/00383]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u79	Questions now addressed to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mrs Susana Sumelzo Jordan of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Montoro, when are you going to allow the municipalities to use their resources to meet the needs of their neighbours?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u81	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u82	Thank you, Madam President. The municipalities in Spain are meeting the needs of their neighbours, which is the meaning of their budgetary management and their political action, and they are doing so with healthy finances. There are 8125 municipalities in Spain and, of course, we must congratulate, and the Government does so repeatedly, that the vast majority of municipalities have surpluses, that they are reducing their debt and that they are thus contributing to economic recovery and job creation, which takes place precisely in the demarcation of these municipalities. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sumelzo, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u84	Mr Montoro, we have been asking you for a long time to amend the Budget Stability Act to allow the surplus to be reinvested in citizens. During all these years of crisis, while you were making tax amnesties, it was the municipalities that responded directly to the needs of their neighbors, who were having a bad time. You know perfectly well - you have given us the figures - that the municipalities are the only Administration that has surplus. This first half of the year they achieved a surplus of EUR 1,874 billion, which is 60% more than they did last year in the same period, which has helped you to make up for the government deficit. That's right. You know that well, because you have given them your own ministry, and despite everything you keep looking away and punishing the municipalities, especially the smaller ones. You, Mr. Montoro, will come to history as the most anti-municipalist minister. Our group invites you to walk, to take a tour of the villages of Aragon, Castile, Extremadura, of that interior Spain which is often denied opportunities. We also invite you to know your reality and talk to the mayors and ask them what your financial situation is in your municipalities, what your needs are. I'm sure that will be the best thermometer for you to change your mind and stop suffocating the city halls economically. Mr Montoro, all that surplus that local administrations have would be a magnificent dynamism of the real economy, and you know it, that which does not reach the citizen of the street, that which generates employment and which guarantees quality public services and which curbs one of the biggest problems that our country has today, territorial vertebration and depopulation. Our parliamentary group encourages you to react, to stop protecting the municipalities, which have passed the exam with note, and we also invite you to work with the whole of this House to achieve a way of local funding... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u85	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Sumelzo, how many municipalities have closed in Spain? None. How many municipalities have reduced the number of their councillors? None. How many deputies have stopped serving so many small municipalities of hundreds of inhabitants, and basic public services? Are they healthy or are they not? This is the result of a government action that included suppliers, which included, when we had to raise it, and we did, exceptionally and transiently, the IBI. Or don't we go up the IBI? It was done by the Government and a majority of this House to encourage the financing of those municipalities that were broken. That's the reality. From there, today these municipalities also have a figure, that of financially sustainable investment, which in 2016 used exactly 1043 local entities, 1009 municipalities and 34 provincial deputies. The total amount of the investments approved amounted to EUR 696 million and I call for this figure to be used even more, because last year there was room, there is this year and there will be the following for such investments, do not generate recurrent expenditure and serve to better equip the public services of the neighbors of the municipalities. I insist that the Government will continue to implement the Budget Stability Act with all rigour and we are working with the FEMP to revise that expenditure rule. We are doing it in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, but we will also have to do it in the face of the European institutions. We cannot and must not go at any other rate. Spain remains subject to the excessive deficit procedure and our aim is that in three years' time all our public administrations will be balanced and in this way we will be able to promote job creation, which is undoubtedly the worst legacy of this economic crisis. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE SECOND GONZALEZ GARCÍA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMUNITY MAY IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: WHEN THE GOVERNMENT HAS PROVIDED TO APPROVE IN THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS THE DRAFT GENERAL BUDGETS FOR 2018 TO PRESENT THEM TO THIS CAMARA? [[File number 180/00361]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u87	Question by Mr Segundo González García, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u88	When does the government plan to present the 2018 draft budgets so that we can discuss it in this House?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u89	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, Mr González, thank you for postponing the question last week. The Government's will is to bring them as soon as possible, as soon as we get the necessary support. This is obvious because we are a minority Government and we need the support of other political groups. I therefore invite your group to participate in the preparation of the budgets and discuss them before we present them. I'm not going to tell you to support them, but it would be enough for you to abstain. Abstaining is a political position, Mr González, Mrs Montero; abstaining is a very useful political option when it comes to promoting political stability, which would undoubtedly be strengthened in Spain thanks to the adoption in this House of the next General Budgets of the State. I don't know if in your case it's asking a lot, actually, but for asking you not to stay. We will continue to invite all political groups to participate actively in the political and economic stability of Spain. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u91	Mr. Gonzalez, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u92	Mr. Montoro, don't come up with stories. Article 134 of the Constitution stipulates that the Government shall submit the draft budgets at least three months before the expiry of the budgets of the previous year. That means that he should have presented them on 30 September and, as he did not, he has since failed to comply with the Constitution. The problem is that you're too used to not complying with it. [[Applauds]] The fiscal amnesty, unconstitutional, that he did for his friends, amounted to 15 billion losses to the state, but every time you violate the Constitution it has very serious consequences for the citizens. Each time it is delayed in the presentation of the budgets it has economic consequences, as you yourself reflected in the budget plan that you sent to Brussels last Monday. Mr Montoro, the 2016 extension, in force until last June, meant that all State investments would be stopped in practice and, presumably, the 2017 extension, which will come into force on 1 January, would mean that investments would be stopped, but it is also that it will not be possible to approve the update of pensions so that they will no longer lose purchasing power and neither will they be able to adopt budgets for some of the laws that have already been adopted in this Parliament, as in the case of the State Pact against Gender Violence, Mr Montoro. Please explain this to us, because urgent measures are not going to be taken, for example, to compensate the 13 million people at risk of poverty, according to the Eurostat report, or measures to increase resources for the prevention and extinction of fires, so that a tragedy such as that we suffered in Galicia and Asturias last weekend, Mr Montoro, does not happen again. [[Applauds]] Worst of all, you're using budgets to abduct the Constitution, literally. Forty-five laws have already been vetoed with the excuse of budget allocation. If you do not present the budgets and we cannot present laws because they affect the budgets, explain to us what we do here 350 Members, Mr Montoro Explain this to the 23 million people who did not vote for your party. Mr Montoro, do your job, present your budgets or, rather, leave before you are declared unconstitutional, Mr Montoro. Spain can't take any more dips [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u93	Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Gonzalez, I will thank you very sincerely for the ardour, almost for the passion you have put in for the state's general budgets for next year. After that passion and that ardour, you, as a political group, are strongly committed. Why do you want the government to bring in budgets that you are going to deny? It doesn't matter what kind of budgets we bring; you're going to make a destructive opposition. If not, I invite you to do this budget negotiation as soon as possible and enable and facilitate among all the political groups in this House that we have General State Budgets for next year. As you said, Mr González, you have made such a passionate defense that you are not going to try to counter this modest minister. After the obvious need for new budgets, we are all much more convinced in this House that we will make the effort to facilitate their existence as soon as possible. The Government is of course convinced that there will be new General State Budgets for next year. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]] - BY JUAN CARLOS GIRAUTA VIDAL, BY THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: HOW LONG DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK THAT THE PRESENTATION IN THE COURTS OF THE DRAFT GENERAL BUDGETS OF THE STATE FOR 2018? [[File number 180/00390]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u95	Question by Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u96	Minister, I am going to speak to you with the legitimacy of being a spokesperson for a group that has been collaborating constructively and encouraging this country to have General State Budgets. There is an enigmatic point in this non-submission, in the Government's failure to bring the draft budgets here before 30 September. Congress is not obliged to approve them but you are obliged to present them and there is a certain mystery - it is not the mystery of building the pyramids, but it is a certain mystery - about which I would like to see if you shed some light. Have the Socialists already told you that they are not going to abstain in the budgets? Do you already have an answer that would justify not bringing the draft budgets here on date? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u97	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Girauta, it is clear that you, as you are well presented, have all the legitimacy since you have supported the so-called spending ceiling in July, the setting of deficit targets and we have already negotiated with you virtually all the content of what the General Budgets of the State would be for the year 2018, fulfilling, with loyalty, the investment commitments and therefore contributing to the stability, not economic and budgetary but political, of Spain. The reason why we did not bring the budgets on their date is because we do not have the guaranteed support and we would have given rise to a vote against - imagine - the return of the budgets in this House. Therefore, the responsibility, as I am insisting this morning, belongs to all political groups. It is clear that the Government has not brought the budget bill because it does not have sufficient votes; that is clear. You referred to the Socialist Group and I also referred to the Group of the European People's Party; I now turn to the Socialist Group and invite it - as I have already done publicly - to enter into this negotiation of budgets to give political stability to Spain, but I warn you that some head is moving negatively in the direction of the group. As the president said, the gestures count for a lot in this House, but that is not why we are going to stop carrying out this negotiation and in the coming weeks we can present a draft budget that, if it was not approved on 1 January, will not take much longer and can be approved in the first weeks of 2018 so that in this way its effects would be as unsettling as possible. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Girauta, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u100	Mr Montoro, you are an optimistic man and you have joined the Socialist Party with Podemos in an act of responsibility such as supporting the General Budgets of the State. I'm less optimistic, and we can't expect that. I did have some hope that a party that has ruled so many years Spain will not decide just now to increase the instability of Spain. I don't think you've just cleared up the riddle. Whatever the origin of that black hole in which so many expectations and hopes have fallen, I want all of Spain to know that because of those who prevent the approval of the budgets we will be left without the reduction of the IRPF that we had agreed and that it would benefit three million taxpayers, we will be left without the increase of the paternity permits, we will be left without 2000 euros per family per year for education from zero to three years, we will be left without the salary supplement for young people, we will be left without 80% increase in the financing of the Mediterranean corridor, we will be left without the beginning of the very fair and relevant salary equality between the Civil Guard, the police and the autonomous police and we will be left without the end of the cultural VAT. The mystery and the riddle remain, but whoever is responsible I ask how they can reconcile sleep at night. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u101	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Girauta, you are absolutely right to insist on what problems would arise from the non-updating of the State's general budgets for next year. I have to express my conviction that we are going to have new budgets; we are going to continue working these weeks and months to have the new General State Budgets. You are absolutely right to appeal to the responsibility of the Socialist Party, of course you have it; you have it completely. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u103	Thank you very much. - THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO Parliamentary Group, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHAT DOES HE THINK TO REMIT TO THE COURTS, AS THE LEGAL ORDER, THE AGREEMENTS ON THE NEW FIVENAL LAW IS ESTABLISHED? [[EAJ-PNV]] 2017-2021 OF THE VASCO CUP AND MODIFICATION LAW OF THE ECONOMIC CONCIERT SUBSCRIBE BETWEEN THE VASCO INSTITUTIONS AND THEIR GOVERNMENT AT THE JOINT CONCIERT COMMISSION ON 17 JULY 2017? [[File number 180/00392]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u104	Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u105	Good morning, Minister. On 19 July, agreements were signed between the Spanish Government and the Basque Government on the new five-year quota law 20172021 and the amendment of the Economic Concert. Since that day, it has been three months and the Government has only to forward these agreements, as the law and in particular article 50 of the Law on Concertation, to this House. We do not understand the delay so far, so I trust that in your reply you will tell me that this very Friday the Government will send it to the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u106	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Esteban, the Government is faithful to its commitments and, therefore, that commitment to bring the quota law and the updating of the economic concert law as soon as possible. Have security as I do, although we have to seek the relevant parliamentary support, that both laws will be passed by the end of the year, which is the deadline to which we committed from the beginning. We still have time to do this; we do not have to feel a pressing urgency as if the timetable had gone because it has not been so. Be sure that you will be approved before this exercise ends. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Esteban, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u109	Minister, there is a hurry. Just as you are in a hurry to pass budgets, the amendment of these laws depends on whether or not the budgets of the Basque Country can be made in one way or another. And not only that, if they were not approved, we would continue with the accounting mess that we were in for many years and that, in the end, could be clarified. The Government no longer has to take any further steps, it does not have to do so, it is signed and it is an agreement corroborated by the Government. You, who so much like the legal order, the normality, what you have to do is send it not as soon as possible without an indefinite date, but you have to tell me that you are going to do it now, because there is no reason to justify the delay. Frankly, it seems to me that it is worrying because it is no longer a written agreement between parties, but an agreement between institutions. Do the agreements between institutions work for something? That is part of the institutional commitments that must be fulfilled, so take note of the question we are asking you, Minister. I also take note of your reply.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u110	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Esteban, of course I take note perfectly, of course. The monitoring sessions, in addition to the more or less adequate responses that a Government can provide, are also the scene of that political relationship and, in that regard, we are all aware of the situation we are experiencing. I would like to tell you that we are not only going to comply with what we have already signed and agreed, but we are also going to extend to Navarra much of the new definitions in terms of what is the Navarro Convention with the Kingdom of Spain in fiscal terms, which is also very important to do so, and to do so on date. We will also fulfil the commitment to start reforming autonomous financing, for which we need the help of all the political groups in this House in terms of their responsibilities as government in the territories of Spain, but especially the Socialist Party. We will do so now and we will also develop the balear economic regime, which is a big issue, as is the fiscal economic regime of Ceuta and Melilla, and complete in the field the economic regime of the Canary Islands. The entire territorial treasury of our country needs to be revised and updated according to the time we are living, so that it serves economic recovery and job creation. But, I insist, in order to do all this, we need political stability in this House. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u112	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF MANUAL CRUZ RODRIGUEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER FOR EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: WHAT MEASURES IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO TAKE TO IMPROVE INVESTIGATION IN UNIVERSITIES? [[File number 180/00385]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u113	Question to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport of Mr Manuel Cruz Rodríguez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u114	Thank you, President. Minister, I am not going to make a catastrophic intervention. The scientific production of Spanish universities maintains its level of excellence. This is due, first of all, to the quality of our researchers, to whom I would like to begin by recognizing their efforts and proven professionalism in undoubtedly difficult contexts. We must also recognize the determination of our universities to maintain research projects and programmes from their own resources, however, if you continue with your policies, we may be able to resist for a while but not move forward. That is why I ask you: What steps will the government take to improve research in universities? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u115	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the first part of your speech, the second part, which we shall see, but I thank you for the first part. Why? Because you said something that's real, that's true. Here we often hear a very black view of the situation precisely because the questioner wants to change the situation. I think things can change without blacking them out, without telling the reality. I want to thank you for saying that the situation at the Spanish university is good. Good. I would like to add that for the government, research is very important because it believes it is one of the university's missions. Therefore, the Government intends to give stability and improve the conditions of the research staff, as well as to recover the talent that it carries out its work in universities outside Spain. I would like to point out two recent concrete actions. First, the Council of Ministers of 6 October approved amendments to the Science Act - an additional twenty-third provision - so that the time limit for contracts could be increased to apply to the implementation of the Spanish system of science, technology and research. Secondly, the Beatriz Galindo grants; a few scholarships specifically aimed at recovering for Spanish universities the talent that has gone away. These are two measures - one I announced at the opening of the university course in Salamanca and the other in the Council of Ministers - which go in the direction you asked us to do. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Cruz, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u118	I have told you in the first part of my speech, which you seem to have liked: if research in our universities is saved, it is not thanks to you but despite you. I don't consider myself pythagorean, but it must be recognized that sometimes numbers speak for themselves. R & D expenditure in Spain in 2015 represented 1.22% of GDP; the European average is 2.04 %. But if we raise this in global terms, we see that among the first thirty countries in the world, Spain ranks fourth by the tail. If that were not enough, 2016, according to data from the State's General Intervention itself, you only executed 38% of the budget, which is already small. Minister, I do not wish you any harm, not even political, you know that I appreciate your dialogue attitude and your conciliatory attitude, but I am very afraid that if you do not introduce into your policies those elements, especially budgetary ones, that allow us to really provide resources for research in our universities, the consequence will end up being the progressive weakness of our economy in terms of technological competitiveness and innovation, as well as the consequent loss of opportunities for growth and well-being for the Spaniards. This final wish is not an appreciation of me but of the Conference of Rectors itself in its last annual report. Mr. Mendez de Vigo, allow me a piece of advice. Be up to the standards of our researchers and our universities, which I believe is why he is a minister. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u119	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u120	As you well know, Your Honor, the problem of research in Spain, the problem of financing, is not so much of the public as of the private sector; there is little private funding for research in Spain. What can we do from the administration field? Well, look, what we're doing: moving forward. I've referred to the Beatriz Galindo scholarships before. There are 100 grants to Spanish universities articulated through a distinguished research contract, contracts lasting four years, and will be co-financed between the ministry and the corresponding university. We are therefore in line with what the 2020 Strategy is demanding, the demand for the competitiveness of our economy. You tell me to listen to the CRUE. Yes, you're absolutely right; I hear it every day and I'm going to hear it just this morning because now I'm going to see the new president of the CRUE. You know that this ministry has always been open to dialogue with the CRUE. I believe that we have resolved many issues at the Spanish university through dialogue and will continue to do so. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u121	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL Adriana LASTRA FERNANDEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: WHEN WILL THE GOVERNMENT RECOVER THE SOCIAL DIALOGUE AS PROVIDED TO FIND THE AGREEMENT IN THE TOLEDO COVENANT? [[File number 180/00382]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u122	Questions now to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. Question by Adriana Lastra Fernández, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Our parliamentary spokesman, speaking of parliamentary dynamism, was beginning this control session and I was very surprised by the response of the President of the Government, in addition to the pride that characterizes him, because it is no longer a question of vetoes, it is not a question of burying amendments to everything that is to be adopted, it is not a question of there being no legislative initiative, it is that in addition to what is approved in this House the Government passes through the arch of triumph; it passes through the arch of triumph. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u124	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u125	I will talk about two initiatives on a topic that is fundamental for the country and for the hundreds of pensioners and trade unionists who have come to Madrid this week from all parts of Spain to claim decent pensions. I am referring to the agreement we adopted in this House on 14 March this year, on a proposal from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to guarantee the purchasing power of pensions within the Toledo Pact, and also to the agreement of 12 September, in which we gave the Government three months of time to guarantee the sustainability and purchasing power of pensions, when we also know that the unions are complaining precisely because they are paralysing the social dialogue table within the Toledo Pact. That is why, Minister, we ask you this question. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u126	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Government conducts a fluid dialogue every day with parliamentary groups, with the autonomous communities and also with the social partners in the social dialogue in order to try to reach good agreements for Spain, especially in my case, in the field of employment and social security. We have done so from the beginning and we are reaching agreements, ladies and gentlemen. Here, for example, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, there is the boost of the youth guarantee, the extension of the Programme of activation of long-term unemployed, the renewal that tomorrow we will validate of the Preparation and very few days ago the Law of Autonomes - which improves the social protection of many autonomous in Spain - was approved unanimously of this House. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u128	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u129	We are engaged in a sincere dialogue both in the Toledo Pact, through the People's Parliamentary Group, and in the social dialogue in the ministry with trade unions and employers because what we want, Your Honor, is for Spain to have more and better pensions every day, which is what you and we Spaniards are asking for. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u130	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lastra, come in. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, according to the International Monetary Fund, the retirement pension will lose 30 % of its purchasing power over 20 years, but it is also that people who are now 47 years old, when they retire, will have a pension with a purchasing power of 40 % less than they would have had before this reform. This is what you have done with pensions. What you are doing in this House day after day, every time there is a plenary and we talk about pensions, every time there is an inquiry, every time there is a motion or a non-law proposal or even any question, is nothing, absolutely nothing. You are even disloyal to this House. You know why? Do you know what society is starting to think, even though the Socialist Party has always had it clear? That all you want is to alarm the increase in private pensions. That is the reality of the People's Party Government. I told him once, and I repeat it. Spain defends itself by defending the social, democratic and legal state, i.e. by defending the Spanish. And pensions are fundamental to defending the Spaniards, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u132	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u133	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Lastra, for yelling more you don't get any more reason. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u134	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u135	I am sometimes surprised by the speeches made by certain people in the Socialist Group, and I ask you, as head of the Socialist Group, why, if there is a calm, calm, calm debate with all the information in the Toledo Pact, week after week, do you bring initiatives that disrupt this constructive debate in the Toledo Pact in this House? I do not say this, all the speakers from the rest of the parliamentary groups say this because they are surprised that they have that attitude with one face within the Toledo Pact and with another less constructive when they come to plenary. Therefore, Your Honor, I ask for your responsibility. We are also doing so in the social dialogue. There have been more than five meetings - the next one is tomorrow - and such important issues have been discussed for the sustainability of pensions and for the improvement of future pensions as the bonuses and reductions that affect the financing of the system, how to increase the maximum bases and decompose the maximum pension so that there will be better pensions in Spain and how to work every day to close the deficit that you left us and that today is being corrected thanks to the employment and commitment of all Spaniards, also of this government. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MRS CARMEN ROCÍO CHOLO PEREZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: WHEN THE GOVERNMENT THINKS TO INCREASE THE VIDEO PENSIONS OF BENEFICIARY PERSONS WITH LESS INCOME? [[File number 180/00386]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u136	She is now asked by Mrs Carmen Rocío Cuello Pérez, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u137	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, we don't disturb anything, we just work to improve pensions. Here's the question: When does the government plan to increase widow's pensions for low-income beneficiaries? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u138	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u139	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, Mariano Rajoy's government has worked since the first day to improve the pensions of all pensioners in Spain. From the first day it was decided to raise pensions, which had been frozen by the socialist government since 2011, and also to improve them every day; that is why more pensions, better pensions and higher than ever are paid today. You ask me what we have done since 2011. So look, raise pensions; that is why the average widow's pension has risen by 10% since 2011, and 150,000 of them have even risen to 15% because they are now receiving a maternity supplement that did not exist and that was achieved with the agreement of this House; and we will continue to improve them, I am convinced, with everyone's commitment in the future, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u140	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cuello, come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u141	Mrs Báñez, don't leave me for the branches I'm asking you about the widow's pensions of the least paid people. You are today in debt to those people over 65, unprotected and in poverty. Today these people should collect 58% of the regulatory base of their pension and they are not collecting it because you, who have been in government for six years, have paralysed the State General Budgets Act that would have to raise these pensions. Mrs Báñez, you have failed to comply with the Toledo Pact, which proposed a modification of the improvement of these pensions to accommodate that protection to the new social and family realities. It has failed not only to comply with the Toledo Pact but also with Law 27/2011 on updating, adapting and modernizing the social security system, which includes an additional provision, the thirtieth, which speaks of the improvement of the widow's pension in favour of pensioners over the age of 65 who have only this pension. They came to the Government and decided not to apply this improvement in the budgets - as I said earlier - and they drew up a decree-law to postpone the implementation of that additional provision. The fact is that the beneficiaries of this pension have been waiting for six years for these improvements in a law; they are collecting much less and their purchasing power is less because of their revaluation, which is less than the evolution of the PCI, and because of the pharmaceutical co-op. So, Minister, since your Government talks so many times about economic recovery, I hope that recovery will reach these families and, like the Socialist Government, in the period of crisis 2007-2011, the minimum widow's pension has risen by 40%, so you also raise it, because if you do not, we will raise it with a bill that we have just registered. Thank you very much. [[One Member: Very well.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u142	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u143	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, the greatest threat to the pension system in Spain is to think that it can re-govern the Socialist Party because every time you govern you leave pensions in deficit, you freeze them for the first time in our history, as you did in the last government of Zapatero... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u144	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u145	And look, more... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u146	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u147	... were about to put Spain at risk with bankruptcy, which would have meant, as happened in countries around us, that pensions would fall by 15% as in Ireland, by 50% as in Greece or that some of the pensions could not be paid throughout the year as they did in Portugal with the Christmas extra. Your Honor, the guarantee of pensions is employment, it is the rule of law, but also a responsible government that strengthens economic growth and job creation in Spain. This Government is fulfilling, so fulfilling that since it began to govern in 2011, to improve the pension system, what it has done is to permanently separate the sources of funding, which is what they had to have done, as recommended by the Toledo Pact, and to establish reforms that promote and strengthen sustainability. We will even comply with the additional 30th provision of Law 27, which, by the way, we are in time. The Ministry was working on the regulations that it was developing to improve the social protection of those pensioners over the age of 65 who had less income. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u148	Thank you very much. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. - OF THE PILAR WOMEN'S DEPARTMENT CANCEL RODRIGUEZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES, FOOD AND ENVIRONMENT: WHAT ACTIONS HAS THE GOVERNMENT TAKEN IN CONNECTION WITH THE FUEL IMPACTS PRODUCED THIS WEEK IN GALICE AND OTHER AUTONOMOUS COMMUNITIES? [[File number 180/00394]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u149	Questions to the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment. Firstly, a question from Mrs Pilar Cancela Rodríguez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u150	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last weekend, in particular on Sunday, an unbearable chain of fires took place simultaneously in Asturias, Castile and León and, in the most bloody way, in Galicia, with more than 130 hot spots, which were the worst incendiary escalation in recent years and whose size is still to be determined. I want to show our immense pain and solidarity with their families and the most infinite recognition, never enough, of the brigades that worked to the point of exhaustion and, above all, of a people that once again faced the fire with the scarce resources at its disposal. That is why, Minister, I ask you on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group what action has been taken by the Government in relation to the fires that have occurred this weekend in Galicia and other autonomous communities. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u151	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u152	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, first of all, I want to join in the pain of relatives and friends of the deceased once again - I had the opportunity to do so yesterday in Galicia also that of the neighbors of so many burning areas in Galicia, Castile and León and Asturias - and to express my gratitude to all: the brigades, the UME, pilots, ambulances, the Civil Guard, the National Police, the Local Police, the Civil Protection, all those who have collaborated in the extinction of fires. I want to condemn what happened this weekend. These days, in Galicia in particular, we have seen too many situations that are not explained without intentionality. I think it is up to us all to appeal to society to be absolutely intolerant of this kind of crime. Your Honor, we have been collaborating ever since our assistance was sought with all the Autonomous Communities, which have control and direction of the fires. We have provided all our material and human means to extinguish them as soon as possible. Your Honor, we are also working to identify and arrest the criminals who have caused so much damage, and do not doubt that, just as we have been in prevention and extinction, we will be helping to restore the damage. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u153	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cancela.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u154	Thank you, President. Minister, we share the concern about possible intentionality in this incendiary plot, but that intentionality is still to be determined. What was predictable, because there was a combination of elements that was known in advance, is the famous 30-30 formula: more than 30 degrees of temperature, winds of more than 30 kilometers per hour that in some cases reached even 80 kilometers per hour and a relative humidity of less than 30 %. That was predictable, and it was known that these circumstances were taking place this weekend. There was therefore a natural risk; a foreseeable natural risk and sufficient measures should have been put in place, at least to minimise it. And I add to that natural risk another risk almost as important as that, and you know what it is? It's the risk of austereicide. You see, the budgetary implementation in the programmes applicable to the subject matter covered by the various relevant headings, in this case for 2016, has not exceeded 66 % and the reduction in the 2017 budget compared to 2016 is more than 23 %. To cut budget lines, Minister, and not to execute also produces effects, and produces effects for the citizenry. You spoke at your last appearance in this house of 57 million euros for preventive fire policies. Let me tell you that unplanned investment is no use at all... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u155	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u156	Thank you, President. Your Honor, whoever decided to burn Galicia knew what the situation in Galicia was. I will tell you what this government has done: to worry about the BRIF. We have improved their conditions and increased their working time, also for prevention work. We have increased the budget for extinction by almost 20% since 2011; we have improved coordination with the autonomous communities; we have increased the material and personal means; we have incorporated new technologies, we have supported forest restoration. We make forestry policy, the past legislature with the Plan for the socio-economic activation of the forestry sector, this with the Plan for forest action. We have also multiplied in these days, because we knew what the weather conditions were, by three the usual discharge capacity. We've tightened criminal law. We facilitate the management of the mountains. Many of these measures are also developed in collaboration with the autonomous communities, many of their party. But I'm also going to say what you didn't do. They started by letting the BRIF hang, the first thing we did when we arrived at the government. They abandoned forest policy. When we arrived at the Government simply did not exist, there had been no forest policy again. In that too, the environment was abandoned, just as water was abandoned, just as climate change policy was abandoned; it adds up and goes on. Ladies and gentlemen, you always ask what is already done and what you did not do when you had the opportunity to do, but we are always open to joining our... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u157	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE OF ANTONIO GOMEZ-REINO VARELA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, WE CAN COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE GOVERNMENT, MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY AND FOR TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATIONS: WHAT MEASURES HAS THE GOVERNMENT TAKEN TO AVOID THE WATER OF FOREST INTENDMENTS IN GALICE AND IN THE NORTH CANTABRIC? [[File number 180/00393]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u158	She also asks the minister of the deputy Don Antonio Gómez-Reino Varela of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u159	Good morning. What steps has the Government taken to prevent the wave of fires in Galicia as well as in Asturias and León?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u160	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u161	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, drought, weather, wind and temperature may explain the spread of the fire, but they do not explain its onset. We do not face an uncontrolled spread of fires; on the contrary, we face multiple conates of badly provoked fires with much intent and knowledge of what was done to cause enormous damage. I would, of course, like to express my condemnation of these acts. Your Honor, we have been in prevention and extinction and we will be helping to restore the damage. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Gómez-Kingdom, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u163	Serra do Xurés, O Galiñeiro, O Courel, Os Ancares, Ribeira Sacra, more than 276 fires, 11 500 hectares calcined, a veritable black tide of crushed mountain. We are witnessing an environmental and social catastrophe in Galicia and it has responsibility: the governments of the People's Party. You told us: There is no climate change. Mr Hernando said so in this House. [[Mr. Henando Fraile makes negative signs]] That is why they devote the same to one kilometre of AVE as to policies against climate change. [[Rumors]] You were telling us that there is no problem with the eucalyptus monoculture, 23 000 hectares burned and, yes, the trash industry of your happy friends. You told us that nothing happened by privatizing emergencies and Mr. Feijoo fired 436 brigademen and then ended up begging for citizen collaboration. What a defach after privatizing, precarizing and dismantling emergency services, trying to appropriate their work! Emergency services work in spite of you. They lie blatantly and I don't say it, says the president of Galicia's Public Fire Platform. Galicia didn't burn, her policies burned. [[applause.-Mr. Gómez-Reino Varela shows a photograph]] We wondered where the State was when it was needed, where its patriotism was when people needed it. In Galicia we are already too used to doing what the State does not do. We did it with the Prestige pulling out the hood with our hands and it was done this weekend again by putting out the fires with cubes in the mountains and in the streets. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] And I ask them: Why do they not stop favoring companies that do business with fire? And while Galicia was burning, the public media silenced, the journalists silenced and then propaganda, propaganda and propaganda. But we are not going to remain silent as they try to trample on the dignity of Galicians and Galicians, as they try to end the future of our children. [[Applauds]] I'm done. Damn pyromaniacs! Of course I do! Damn pyromaniacs who from governments make policies that burn our mountains! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u164	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u165	Thank you very much, President. Mr President, the European Commission said yesterday that Spain has the best system and the best capacity to deal with fires and that Spain is in some way a reference at European level, probably the most prepared country and with the best prevention measures. The European Commission says so. Your Honor, we are prepared, as I told you, and we have the best device, but we are prepared for fires not for arsonists. This isn't a media problem, it's a criminal problem. Your Honor, condemn and do not demagogy, the demagogy does not turn off, it ignites. Is it the result that the fires in Galicia are the fault of La Xunta and those in Asturias, where the PSOE and the United Left rule are the wind and the drought? A lot of bully shame is needed! [[Applauds]] Demagogy lights up and doesn't turn it off. Can you explain why the Galician province with the highest incidence of fires, such as Orense, has only 0.17% of eucalyptus forest area? Is it forest policy or is it a lack of means to set the city of Vigo on fire or that ninety fires are at night in a peri-urban environment? Is that a lack of forest policy or media? Or that five or seven outbreaks are triggered simultaneously at one and a half in the morning? Is that also lack of means or forestry policy? Is it not a lack of resources and forestry policy in Galicia and Asturias? I insist, we're ready for the fires. It's not a media problem; it's a crime problem. And the hardest part, they seek no benefit; they seek to cause harm. How much and against whom, I'd like to know. And I'd like you to ask yourself, as I ask myself, is the damage they've caused the one they wanted, more?, less?, enough?, against whom? I'm asking you to join the conviction. [[Prolonged applause]] - OF THE SAURA GARCIA PEDRO, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHAT IS IT GOING TO HAVE FOR THE CONTRIBUTORS THE SALE OF THE PEOPLE'S BANK? [[File number 180/00373]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u166	Questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness. Question by Mr Pedro Saura García, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, how much does the collection cost of the resolution of the People's Bank amount to for the Spaniards? How much does the cost of collecting corporation tax amount? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u168	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u169	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, as I have said on many occasions, at a zero cost.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Saura.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u171	Minister, look, it's very serious. Why is what is happening with the People's Bank and what the Minister for Economic Affairs has just said very serious? It's very serious for two reasons. First of all, because they cheat on the Spaniards. You and your government are still cheating on the Spaniards. We were already deceived when the rescue of the financial system said that it was not going to cost us a euro or a cent of euro at the time, and ended up costing us more than EUR 60 billion. But now he's cheating on us again. Secondly, why is it serious, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening and what the Government has done? Because it has a collection cost that the Spanish pay directly, and directly the middle income and the workers; because that goes against the welfare state, against the financing of the welfare state. That's why it's serious too. The question, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, is: how much of the EUR 30 billion in tax credits that the government is endorsing to financial institutions will be given to the entity that the People's Bank has acquired? That is the question, Minister. Don't keep cheating. The Spaniards don't suck our fingers. It's one more lie from this government. How much of that 30 billion? In the background it is, again, a transfer of income and wealth from the Spanish media and workers to the powerful of our country. Again, it is the hallmark of the government's fiscal and fiscal policy, which is to give financial institutions and the powerful, which is to cut the welfare state, as is again done in the 2018 budget plan for next year, where social spending continues to lose weight on GDP; and, however, what continues to be done is to express average incomes and workers. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u172	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u173	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, after your scientific presentation, I will tell you that the People's Bank resolution has not had any kind of public aid or guarantee. The FROB, which has always acted on behalf of the Single Resolution Board, has not assumed any guarantee of the potential risks of the operation, including potential litigation. With regard to DTAs, the Companies Tax Act provides for the right of companies to use them to reduce tax burdens in future years and even to convert them into receivables payable against the Treasury when accounting losses are recorded or the entity is subject to judicial settlement or insolvency, which is not the case with the People's Bank. The possibility of using the DTAs of the People's Bank has not been altered by the resolution and sale, the bank had the same right to amortize its DTAs both before and after the resolution. Moreover, the conversion to be recorded this year is the result of accounting losses that the institution experienced in 2016, so it would also have taken place if the resolution and sale of the bank had not occurred. In the case of an absorption merger and meeting certain requirements, the Santander, if necessary, could accumulate its Popular ADRs while respecting a number of limitations. Nor does this imply any change to any of the rules in force. On the other hand, the DTA scheme provides revenue to the State, as companies have to pay a fee so that they can compute as capital of the highest quality. So, I repeat again, the resolution and sale operation of the People's Bank will have no cost to taxpayers; on the contrary, if the resolution had not taken place, we would have gone to competition. The competition would have meant that the depositors had been part of the competition and logically could not have withdrawn them. In those circumstances deposits of less than EUR 100 000 would have to be covered within 20 days by the Deposit Guarantee Fund and the Deposit Guarantee Fund would have had to cover EUR 36 billion, Your Honor, which, of course, as you know - and if you can't see it in your memoirs - are not available in the Deposit Guarantee Fund. Thus, in order to pay the depositors of the Popular less than EUR 100 000 in this alternative scenario, the Spanish Treasury would have had to lend slightly more than EUR 30 billion. That, Your Honor, would have cost the taxpayer and not what happened. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u174	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent debate by the Socialist Group on measures to ensure decent public pensions that maintain their purchasing power. For her defence, Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u175	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, the presentation of this inquiry was predictable. Last Wednesday, when the Socialist Parliamentary Group asked you about the measures to ensure the maintenance of the purchasing power of pensions, you gave the silent answer. At a time when thousands of pensioners from all over this country were marching to Madrid from different parts of the country to claim their constitutional right to decent and sufficient pensions, you were looking the other way. [[The Lord]] You responded with praise to your management, something you already have us used to, and repeated your litany: 'The Socialists froze the pensions'. His post-truth, that false reconstruction of past events, cannot hide a true fact: his 2013 pension reform condemns more than 9.5 million people to poverty. Socialists freeze pensions? Yes, except for the minimums, non-contributory ones and those of SOVI, precisely the pensions of the most vulnerable people, who continued to be revalued above the CPI. What the socialists never did or will do is steal the rights of the pensioners, as is the payment for the deviation of inflation that you stole in 2012 with a royal decree-law and which motivated all pensioners to lose 1.4% of the purchasing power of their pension, The freezing of 2010 amounted to 1.2%, minister. Do you know what gain of purchasing power had the minimum retirement pensions with dependent spouse and permanent disability with the Socialist Party? Twenty-two percent. Do you know what the increase in widow's pensions with the Socialist Party meant? Almost 41%, minister. The report of your own Government issued in May 2012 on the purchasing power of pensions for the period 2007-2011, which you have in the well-covered drawer, says so. These are true facts, as is the small 0.25 % increase that your Government has imposed on minimum pensions and non-contributory pensions, and which overrides the basic principles on which our public pension system is based: redistribution and solidarity. It is also true, Minister, that pensions in 2016 for the CPI have lost 1.35 %, and with the CPI in September this year already 1.55 %. These pensioners, with a constant inflation of 1.7, will lose 20 % of purchasing power in ten years. With the sustainability factor they will apply in 2019, if this reform does not change, the average pension replacement rate will lose 30 points on the current situation; that is, new retirees entering 2019 will suddenly have a reduction in their starting pension. Madam Minister, we are not sure how to tell you this, but it is also a fact that while the cost of revaluing pensions in your government stage has barely amounted to 200 million for the coffers - that 0.25 has only cost 200 million - the pensioners today, after five years of pharmaceutical and drug coffers, have made a transfer of EUR 5 billion to the public coffers, payments which, therefore, represent a loss of income for the pensioners. I'm sorry, but it is. It is also true that you spent in 2016 on reductions and flat rates of EUR 21 billion, expenses that you have to face with the general imposition, according to recommendation 1 of the Toledo Pact, which you repeatedly fail to comply with. There are 19 billion more than in the revaluation of pensions. That alone, Minister, would have already allowed him to bear the cost of 1994 million, as we told him last week in the question we put to him. With only you paying from the general tax the reductions and flat rates today you could pay the revalued pensions to the CPI. You continue to detract money from pensioners for expenses that you do not have to face from the Social Security coffers. You are filled with your mouths by claiming recommendation 1 of the Toledo Pact and the consensus of the Toledo Pact, as you comply with this recommendation once - I told you - and accept the reductions and flat rates to the general imposition. [[Applauds]] And it is another fact true that, in the meantime, these years you, despite saying that we have left a deficit situation, that you know it is not true, you have spent the sheath of pensions. We are talking about EUR 67 billion, not to mention mutuals, which we could go to about EUR 90 billion, which you have spent not to cover a deficit that is now chronic, because of you, and all this with the intention of ending up winding up the system and ending up as a business for the banks. We demand that it repeal the reform of pensions that condemn pensioners to poverty. We demand that you ensure that the purchasing power of pensions is maintained. It fulfills the constitutional mandate, minister - see if it is easy - article 50. Now that their mouths are filled with the fulfillment of the Constitution, they are the first to comply with the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, a pact that has clearly emerged from the consensus. We ask him and we demand him because we fear that he will not do so - hence there will be so many initiatives on the part of the Socialist Group - and because this follows from the update of the 2017-2020 Stability Programme that the Government has referred to the European Commission in the framework of the European Semester, where the Government proposes to maintain public expenditure on pensions by 11.8% for the coming years, without taking into account that there will be 6 million more pensioners. In Spain we have 3 points less pension expenditure than in the rest of the European Union. Minister, last Wednesday we were expecting a constructive response, I'm telling you. We looked forward to the early conclusion of the social dialogue with an agreement. We expected the proposal for an index that would allow the recovery of purchasing power for pensioners, now that they so much announce that we have a spectacular collection in Social Security. By the way, Minister, I hope it is not a lie, as it was in January when you announced a spectacular result of the Social Security accounts and had to come March with a closure in which you told us that there were 19 billion euros. In any case, we expected that response and expected short-term measures to stabilize the social protection system. Because, Minister, pensions are the subjective rights of constitutionally recognized citizens, the State has an obligation to guarantee them - and you know it - and the social security system has the economic support based on the principle of contributoryness. In any event, the State must also ensure its sufficiency, which requires the maintenance of a public pension system beyond social contributions. Here I would like to recall a few words from our fellow Socialist colleague Martínez Noval, who said in 1996: A contributory system provides decent benefits when the bases of contribution correspond to that dignity. So, minister, with regard to the assertion that more and better pensions are being paid today, that is not because of you, but because we owe them, with great appreciation, to millions of citizens who worked for more than forty years, contributing to the country with their contributions, present and future, and who were able to contribute to building a future of opportunities for their fellow citizens. I'll give you some data. If we did the exercise of capitalising the balance resulting from contributions for contributions less the benefits paid from 1977 to 2016, capitalised with the average return on the public debt, the surplus that exists today would be 600 billion euros; listen, minister: the surplus of the social security accounts today would be 600 billion euros. That is to say, the effort of millions of workers over these forty years far exceeds the effort we are now asking the Government to do so at this time. It is an effort that has served to fill, to build, to guarantee the adequacy of pensions and, of course, to guarantee something that is much more important: the principle of intergenerational solidarity of the present and of the future. Minister, you believe that the system is being maintained on the labour market, and that is when your labour reform has led to wage reductions and it is proven that we are talking about a 7 to 10% lower contribution base, no matter how much you agree not to recognise it. On the other hand, there is a real figure and it is that there has been a transfer of income from employees to business surpluses that has not reversed in a business investment. Look, with 2016 data closed, I'm going to show you that social contributions income does not hold any relation to that seen prior to 2012, with a growth similar to the current one. I'll make it very clear to you, minister. Look, this painting says it clearly enough. [[Shows a document with graphs]] If you want to look at it, better, though the data should be known: between 2006 and 2007, an increase of 556 000 contributors, there was a collection of almost 8 billion euros. With its increase in 2015 and 2016 contributors - we are talking about more than 550 000, we are talking about 832,000 - look at what a painful collection: 3000 million euros. Minister, I hope you don't lie to us again about the historical records of your accounts. Let's not cheat because lies have short legs and I told you before. The loan granted to Social Security you are calculating as income and that is to make up the accounts. Income from social contributions is being insufficient - you know it perfectly well - and you do not have the capacity to cope with the system. This is not good news and we are not happy, minister. The Socialist Group proposes measures to attack the financial economic imbalance and the loss of purchasing power and give strength to a system that has served to overwhelm the lives of many millions of citizens. Minister, we are not here to give you any lessons, and less than this Member, we simply demand that you comply with recommendations 1 and 2 of the Toledo Pact in its 1995, 2003 and 2011 revisions. I hope you will respond to me today - you have not responded to comrade Adriana Lastra or Carmen Cuello either, because you agree not to answer - and I am grateful that you do not meet in the social dialogue to talk about pensions since February. We expect an agreement, a pact for sustainability and sufficiency, because the core of law, which is economic sufficiency, is the guarantee of the system and, if not, it is going to break. You have thirty-six days left, Minister, to carry out the mandate of this Parliament on 12 September. I hope that it will now give us solutions to that dialogue. Come to the dialogue with the social partners, pact with them and the recommendations will be made, but before you can not skip, as already skipped in the reform of 2013, the social dialogue and, obviously, the Toledo Pact. Out of responsibility, out of justice, because we are growing to 3%, minister, that does not hold up. Take and take the witness - I finish, Mr President - of the march of thousands and thousands of pensioners who came from different points of Spain to claim what is theirs, their right. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u176	Thank you very much, Mrs. Perea. I now call on the Minister for Employment and Social Security, on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u177	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Member, first of all, I want to say that ensuring the sustainability of our pension model and its sufficiency, as reflected in our laws and our Constitution, is the commitment of all public servants and in particular of all Members who belong to this House. Moreover, our top priority is to improve the sustainability of the system, improve pensions today and tomorrow, and do so with consensus within this great social pact, which is the Toledo Pact, which is the commitment that Spanish society really appreciates. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you again what I said to your fellow member of the parliamentary group. Sometimes initiatives such as this - non-legislative proposals and even legislative proposals that the Socialist Group has brought to this House when the Toledo Pact is being debated renewing the recommendations for the present and future of pensions - distort and disrupt this constructive dialogue within the House, formed by all parliamentary groups. I would tell your partner and repeat it to you again: I do not say that, as a member of the Government, it is said by your fellow spokespersons in the Toledo Pact Commission. They should therefore also exercise responsibility there and set an example by maintaining that constructive dialogue and not disrupting the debate and future consensus of that great Toledo Pact, which is the commitment of Spanish society. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as you want to see everything black, the life and reality of our pension model, with its temporary problems - because it has had to overcome the hardest economic crisis in the history of democracy - is not that reality. We must be proud of the model of pensions that we have given ourselves among all, which, despite the difficulties, has even been strengthened in recent times. That is why it is one of the best-rated institutions and, therefore, when the CIS asks the citizens, it is seen that the concern for pensions does not reach 4% of the total number of respondents, because they know that this is the great heritage that we have given ourselves many generations and that it is indeed a sure source of tranquility and trust because it means a great social pact that we are going to preserve all, ladies and gentlemen, with responsibility and commitment. And it should be valued, even in the face of temporary situations of difficulty. Because today we have one of the best social security systems in the world, ladies and gentlemen, and I do not say that, all international institutions say that. If we look at the extent of the contingency it covers, it is a reality, because it gives more than forty social benefits and a large range of pensions; because it has a minimum pension system that has only eleven of the 27 countries of the European Union; because it is very supportive of that pension supplement that favours 2.5 million people with whom only four countries of the European Union; and because, if we also look at the amount of the pension, we see that the relationship between the last salary and the pension of the retiree is one of the highest in the whole OECD. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we must be proud of what we have built together and we must continue to work responsibly to strengthen it in the future. I told him that in the crisis we were responsible for the Spaniards. Not all countries that were in Spain's position in 2011, in a very difficult economic situation and at risk of bankruptcy of our system, can say the same. The same has not happened in Greece, Ireland or Portugal. According to data from 2011 to 2017, pensioners have been the best treated collective of Spanish society from the beginning of the crisis to the present. That is why we have been able to start an economic recovery by paying more pensions to more pensioners and higher than ever before; it is true that there are more than 600,000 pensioners than in 2011, it is also true that there are more pensions, 680,000 pensions are paid, 8% more than in 2011, and in addition the average retirement pension exceeded 1000 euros for the first time in the last parliamentary term and today exceeds 1065 euros. Thus, pensioners - who had frozen the pension in 2011 with a Socialist government - have seen how their pensions have not only risen every year but have improved. And you don't tell the truth, because pensioners have gained purchasing power since 2013 in the following amount: they won 108 million in 2013, 500 million in 2014, 860 million in 2015 and 530 million euros on average in 2016. Therefore, moderate purchasing power gains but gains, Your Honor. Moreover, after the worst economic crisis, Spain's history remains that of a country with a rate of pension replacement of the highest in the world. It has grown 6 points since 2011 and reaches almost 70% in the new pensions. In the new pensions of the general scheme, this replacement rate exceeds 94 per cent. The rate of replacement of pensions in Spain is therefore 8.5 percentage points higher than in France, 15 percentage points higher than in Germany and 20 percentage points higher than in the EU average. But this is not the merit of the Government, it is the merit of Spanish society. That is why I have to respond to your statement with the greatest: the poverty risk rate of pensioners over sixty-five years of age during this period - since 2011 - has been halved, from 23 to 11% at the end of 2015, which is the last data we have on these Eurostat poverty indicators. Therefore, the solidarity of our model has been strengthened and we can even say that, with these minimum supplements that Spain and three other countries of the European Union have, there are 2.5 million people who have a minimum supplement that allows them to have a pension that in other countries it is impossible to have it. Justice in the pension system has also been strengthened, because today, thanks to the maternity supplement - which recognizes for the first time the demographic contribution in Spain - working mothers can have up to 15% more pension. In particular, since this supplement was launched in 2016, it has been received by 287,000 women who have accepted retirement and were mothers who contributed more than two children to society. We are therefore moving towards improving the present and future of pensions. And look, ladies and gentlemen, pensions will never be frozen again because there is a law, the Pension Revaluation Index Act, which will prevent any government, of any colour, from freezing pensions again in Spain, as you Socialists did. And this has been consistent with purchasing power gains every year, as I told you. In addition, over the past five years, we have tried to strengthen the sustainability of the system by adopting improvements and reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, you always tell me about the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, which this Government has scrupulously complied with. One of them is the separation of sources of funding, which was carried out in the past legislature definitively. We have promoted measures in favour of active ageing, as recommended by the Toledo Pact and the European Union, and therefore we have taken legislative initiatives to promote the approximation between the legal age and the actual retirement age. We have also adopted measures to make it compatible in Spain to receive a salary and 50% of the pension for all pensioners and one hundred per cent will come into force for those self-employed who hire employees under this Act of Self-Employment, which was approved unanimously in this House. We have also put in place measures to promote the sustainability of the system with a plan to combat tax fraud, as has always been advised by national and international bodies, which is producing great results. For example, 475 000 irregular jobs that sprang up, the detection of more than 6500 fictitious companies that had no known economic activity, only defrauding Social Security, and the conversion of more than 320,000 temporary contracts that were actually indefinite contracts. All of this has made it possible that in recent years, from 2012 until today, there has been a global saving for the system of more than EUR 19,750 million. Therefore, Your Honor, despite the difficulties we have experienced in recent years, we have improved the system with reforms, with initiatives that have expanded its social protection and also strengthening collection through the fight against tax fraud. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u178	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u179	It will coincide with me that we have had two major impacts on the pension system in recent times: the first is the increase in spending on good news life expectancy and the second is the reduction in income through contributions due to the loss of more than 3 800 000 jobs by the crisis. This has led to the deterioration of 70% of the social security accounts. The best news is therefore the return to economic growth and employment. In 2011 for each new pension three jobs were destroyed and now for each new pension six jobs were created. We have recovered only 65% of the jobs that destroyed the crisis. Therefore, the goal remains more and better jobs, with those 20 million people working in our country. These data have to do with social security income through contributions from the system. Therefore, since they are the main driver and source of income of Social Security, we can say that to more employment, higher income. Until August, social contributions reached a record of 72,200 million euros, thanks mainly to the quotas of the employed, which grow at a rate of more than 5,5 % in Spain. If we talk about effective resources, too. The annual quota growth rate is 5.07 %, the highest since 2008; in 2016 it increased to 3.07 % and the system receives €3440 million more than last year at this point. Therefore, more pensions, better incomes, than that strengthens our social security model. Your Honor - and I am finished, Mr President - you are a Member of Catalonia, so I would like us to speak this morning also of the great threat to the system which is the situation of irrationality in which the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia is located. Yesterday we were aware that the Constitutional Court admitted the appeal lodged by the Government of Spain against the Act on Social Protection of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u180	You have to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u181	Yes, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, a law which, as the Council of State says, aims to provide a structure for the management of competences and resources corresponding to the social security system, an alternative model to the single social security cash model. This model is the guarantee of all pensioners in Spain; if that single Social Security box is broken, it would put at risk nothing more and nothing less than a million and a half pensions in Catalonia, of pensioners from Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware that in 2016 the pension deficit in Catalonia was EUR 47 billion and in what goes from January to July, the pension system in Catalonia has a deficit of EUR 19 billion, and only in what represents the province of Barcelona are we talking about a deficit of EUR 1400 million.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u182	Finish now, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u183	Therefore, the guarantee of pensions for all Spaniards, but in particular for the 1.5 million pensioners living in Catalonia, is the single social security fund and that system that we have given ourselves among all Spaniards. From here I want to launch to finish, President, a message of confidence and tranquillity to pensioners from all over Spain, and in particular to pensioners living in Catalonia, because the single box and the pension system of all will continue to guarantee their pensions on time today and tomorrow, also in Catalonia. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u184	Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u185	Minister, in last Wednesday's question, she wanted me to blur the answer, to cover her answer with Catalonia. I won't let you, it's very ugly what you're doing, it's very ugly! [[Applauds]] You said it yourself. Isn't there an appeal to the Constitutional Court? Let the Constitution work, don't get dizzy and face the pensions. It's very ugly, minister! It affects me because I am Catalan and I am unworthy of how other Members have been outraged here when you come here to cover up your shames, your shames!, with the issue of Catalonia. Point. That's what I'm telling you. [[Applauds]] I understand, Minister, that you are as upset by initiatives as they are by the Socialist Group in this Chamber; I understand that because you see that we are bothering you! I know that, but you will have as much as you need until you return to the point of departure where you broke the Toledo Pact in 2013, because you do not remember that: you broke social dialogue, you broke the dialogue in the pension pact and you broke the mutual trust that we Members must have in order to reach agreements. In that regard, we will go directly to seek consensus. But, previously, minister, she hasn't answered her partner. Since February they haven't met in the social dialogue, he hasn't answered me at all. Now you will reply to me and tell me: that you and Zapatero, and we reached, who was it? Bring them and, if you like, even the arctic seals. Answer me, tell me what you're going to do with the pension system to strengthen it! A colleague gives me this news: The OECD warns of the growing inequality in the income of Spanish pensioners. [[Shows a photocopy of a press clipping]] The Socialist Group does not say that, the OECD says that. As long as you don't want to listen, let's go wrong, minister. Because you speak of sincere dialogue. But what are you telling me? If you're doing what you want and nothing happens. We are saying: implement recommendation 1, which says that public employment policies must be covered by general taxation. Do so; recommendation 1 says so. On the other hand, you come here now, you put on a medal and you say: and to see the autonomous ones that we are going to apply, and we are going to pay and deal with these majors..., the flat rate..., that the government has agreed these measures... Of course, in charge of the pensioners. You tell me: There is no loss of purchasing power. But what are you telling me? Hey, with the pharmaceutical co-op and the meds, the pensioners have had a loss of €5 billion, €50 billion!, compared to the 300 that this 0.25 has meant for us. You will say that the poverty rate has decreased in these years, but, look, minister, you don't know the rates of families, you don't know the situations of families who have had to sell their housing to deal with help to children, to the floors of children, to take forward the children again. You can laugh as much as you want, minister, you can laugh as much as you want, but in the end, the nine and a half million people who are going to send to poverty will have to say it in the ballot box. I remind you that we greatly increased pensions - listen to me minister, that if not then it is lost and does not answer me - non-contributory; when we increased those of the SOVI above the CPI it was to support the most vulnerable. Do you know what you're doing? You send instructions from the ministry to deny non-contributory pensions to those who live together in the same residence, to grandparents we have in the same residence. Why? Because you see that they compute the income, the one who has a contributory pension and the one who doesn't. You're denying people misery and that's deplorable, minister. I am sorry to put myself this way, but it means that we are disturbing the dialogue in the Toledo Pact with these initiatives when, twice, this House has made it very clear to you that they are repealing the pension reform, that we are regaining purchasing power, that we are regaining the strength of the public pension system. This House has told you. Do it! Come to the Toledo Pact of truth, with sincere dialogue, with humility, as the dictionary of Mary Moliner acknowledges, in the sense of generosity, and we will reach agreement in the recommendations of the Toledo Pact. But in the meantime, you have an obligation to take action. What do we tell him? We will have to go down the path of prolonging these expenses, which is not inappropriate, but the recommendation says that they be paid with general taxation. And revalue pensions. Otherwise, at a rate of 1.7, in ten years there will be a loss of purchasing power. I'm finishing up, minister. It tastes really bad because you're gonna tell me about the job, but I'm gonna teach it to you again. [[Displays a graph]] Take a picture, take it home and you'll remember. From 2006 to 2007, with an increase of 500,000 contributors, the collection was €8 billion. You, with more contributors, with 300,000 more, don't even reach 3000. Take the photo, pass it on to your advisors and explain why they are lying to the Spanish population. [[Applauds]] Please respond by complying with the recommendations of the Toledo Pact! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u186	Thank you very much, Mrs. Perea. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u187	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor, your indignation portrays you. The government's obligation is to inform the truth, and the truth is that the only ones that threaten the pension system are those who want to break the single Social Security box, which is the guarantee of all pensioners in Spain and also those living in Catalonia. I have already told you that this government is going to look for all the Spaniards, live where they live, and it is going to keep in full the single Social Security box, which is going to allow you to pay pensions every month throughout Spain and in the coming years, also anywhere in the national territory. Because that is the great commitment in the Toledo Pact of Spanish society and I hope that there is the Socialist Party, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] Look, Your Honor, you are talking about an OECD report on 2050, in which, according to the Committee on the Toledo Pact for Airef, 70% of the adjustment of pensions is due to the adoption of that law of late retirement age of sixty-five to sixty-seven years, Law 27, made by a socialist government. So, Your Honor, a little bit of responsibility. [[Applauds]] Let us talk about today, not 2050, because we also have options to change things by consensus in this House. What Eurostat says, whether you like it or not, is that the poverty risk rate among people over the age of sixty-five, mostly pensioners, has fallen by half, from 23 to 11%. These are Eurostat data and have been in recent years, with recovery in Spain. The only ones who have frozen pensions have been the socialists in 2010; that is also a reality. The biggest loss of purchasing power in history was in 2011, with a socialist government: 27 billion euros in one year. But there was also a loss of purchasing power in 2009 of €930 million. And do you know what would have happened in 2014 and 2015 not to have, as we have today, a new rate of pension revaluation? If we had applied the CPI, they would have had to lower pensions in those years 790 million euros, that is the reality. Why didn't it happen? Because there has been a law since 2013 that raises, today and always, pensions in Spain, and was approved in this legislature. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, pensions, whether they like it or not, have risen every year and gained purchasing power from 2013 to 2016. And do you know what the Socialist Party and its Members recommended to us in September 2013, in that document called Supporting Pensions? Read it, it's very illustrative, page 50. They said: Instead of taking on the cost of freezing pensions when circumstances demand it, what the government does... I repeat again: Instead of assuming the cost of freezing pensions when circumstances require it... What was the Socialist Party telling the Spanish government in 2013? Well, we were brave enough to freeze our pensions again! And do you know what the People's Party and the Government of Spain did? Change the law to never freeze pensions in Spain, neither today nor tomorrow! And climb them every year! [[Applauds]] That is what the People's Party government did. Ladies and gentlemen, I want better pensions every day in my country, I really want it, sincerely, and I also believe that, humbly, all the Members of this House, whom we represent all the Spaniards, want it. And there are only two ways to raise pensions in Spain, let us be clear: the first, with economic growth and employment, or the second, permanently raising taxes. Your Honor, the People's Party, the Government of Spain want the first: economic growth and the creation of more and better jobs, and on that path we will continue. I hope that most of this House will accompany us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u188	Thank you very much, Minister. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United States of America may, in common, on the position of Spain in the negotiation of the European directives aimed at configurating the ENERGY UNION. [[File number 172/000072]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u189	We turn to the next item: an urgent debate by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party on the position of Spain in the negotiation of the European directives aimed at setting up the energy union. For your defence, Mrs Martínez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u190	Thank you, Mr. President. It is not very common for subjects to be decided in the European Union to come to a debate in plenary, but today my group brings to this House the so-called winter package, a series of legislative measures proposed by the Commission which are currently under debate in Parliament and in the European Council, which under the name Clean Energy for all Europeans, want to make Europe the world leader in renewable energies, reduce emissions by 40%, in line with the Paris objectives, and modernise the economy by creating jobs throughout Europe. [[The lady]] The overall thrust of this legislative package is quite positive, although, in our view, it lacks the ambition to achieve the Paris objectives, but in any case for Spain it makes a big difference with regard to energy policy in recent years. Getting these legislative measures of the European Parliament up to the challenge before us is a job that the Euro MPs of the United States are already doing. We can and, therefore, here today we want to talk specifically about the position of the Government of Spain in the processes of negotiation and setting objectives. Why? Because the Spanish Government's position from the outset has been to defend objectives in renewable energy and energy efficiency far below those proposed by the Commission and to defend a much slower transition than is technically possible, and above all by perpetuating as far as possible the current energy model, which is dirty, obsolete, expensive and oligopoly-controlled. In other words, Spain has lost the opportunity to stand side by side with those States that are more strongly and more leading in the pursuit of climate action and renewables, and instead of aligning with the Paris-Berlin axis, it has decided to make common cause with Poland in the defence of dirty energies and with other Eastern States. This is not only a matter that is happening with the energy directives but is also happening in the discussion of the rules for the distribution of efforts by the diffuse sectors. So we can say that Spain is making no effort to make Europe truly a leader in renewables and in the fight against climate change. And this concerns us, first, about Spain's image and role in European construction, which is much more concerned with defending the interests of large energy companies than with defending a proposal for the future for Europe, and, second, because the issues on which Spain is strengthening in the negotiations lead us just in the opposite direction of a clean, just, sustainable and democratic transition. For example, we are concerned that the Government does not want individuals, cooperatives and small businesses to be able to participate on equal terms with large companies putting obstacles in the way of leadership. The winter package precisely puts citizens at the center and is very concerned about empowering citizens in this change of energy model. Or we are concerned about refusing to have a European definition of energy poverty when it is a problem that already affects 1.5 million households in Spain. We are also concerned that, despite having managed to ensure that public investment in energy efficiency does not compute as a deficit and as a debt, a fair claim that we share, Spain still does not support a binding target of 30% in energy efficiency when there are studies that there is a margin of up to 40%. We are equally concerned about the efforts of your Government to maintain capacity payments at all costs and without any European supervision. That money we pay to the gas and coal plants, which are standing by, for being prepared when needed and costing us €700 million annually. These mechanisms are in fact covert subsidies for fossil fuels and must be the last resort when there is no other means of resolving the situation and must always be by accepting the Commission's proposed limit for the generation of technologies that do not exceed 350 milligrams of CO2 per kilowatt hour. It also seems to us to be a mistake in the medium term, and it is strategically unacceptable to speak of the position of Spain, that if there is, as it seems to be, a European financing fund for renewable energy, that fund can pay capacity payments for coal and gas. It is the responsibility of the governments of the institutions to send unequivocal signals to the market from where we want investment to go and where we want investment to go, Mr Nadal, it is to the renewables. The smart transition is the one that invests the minimum resources in elements that will only be needed in the short term. Neither capacity payments nor interconnections, as I will now speak, are elements that will endure in time. And that is precisely what we are most concerned about, which is conditioning any objective and any energy action to the construction of new electrical interconnections, that is, mega-infrastructures necessary to increase exports and imports mainly with France. And we agree that the interconnection of national markets is going to be an important element in the energy transition, but in no way do we share the subordination of renewables to the construction of new interconnections. In Spain we have a long history of millionaire infrastructures that were built as strategic and that are not used, both energetic, like the Castor project or the regasifier of El Musel, that we are paying all gas consumers monthly on our bill, as highways, that we have just rescued, or AVES and empty airports. The very high cost and environmental impact of interconnections require maximum transparency and control. We need much more information and evidence of the strategic need for these projects. I asked him in writing and I asked him in the Commission. Make public market studies, cost-benefit analyses, analyses - if you have done - of alternatives to interconnection, energy storage, demand management, energy saving. Publish that information on which your opinion is based. Frankly, we need more than your word and as long as we do not have these documents that support the need, my parliamentary group, just as many of the parties involved in the European negotiation are doing, will continue to think that interconnections are either a mere excuse to delay the renewables target or are simply a means to get billion-dollar contracts for electricians and big builders. Or both, which can also be. It cannot be an end in itself to be connected to the energy markets; the end, the European objective is to reach 100% renewables, and so we ask you to accept much more ambitious objectives that will enable us to reach this goal as soon as possible. In conclusion, and although it is not directly related to the legislative package to be adopted by the end of the year, I cannot fail to refer to the real decree that the Council of Ministers adopted with catalanity and affluence last Friday, since the National Commission on Markets and Competition in favour of its ministry is de facto empty of competence. I am not going to extend to the current situation of the CNMC - that would give rise to an inquiry only on this issue - but you know that most of this royal decree is contrary to the European directives on regulatory agents, which clearly state which powers should be exercised by regulators and which should not. So clearly they state that the Kingdom of Spain has opened a sanction procedure for more than a year precisely because the Government has never transferred the definition of electricity tariffs to the CNMC and we have no news of the situation. I asked you in writing and in the Commission and I asked Mr Arias Cañete when he came here last February, and we have no information on how the situation is and right now you are delving into non-compliance with the same directives, risking a new sanctioning process and possibly a fine. But beyond the legal consequences that this may have within the framework of European law, the reality is that this royal decree makes you the all-powerful minister of the economic and technological transformation that we are going to experience in the coming years. On the one hand, it will control all aspects of the energy transition and, on the other - and no less important - the management of the radio space. We are the only country in Europe that does not have this competence in the independent regulator, as set out in the directives, and it is no coincidence, because the 5G leap that will come in the coming years will involve a process of rationalization of the spectrum that will directly involve mobile telephone operators and televisions. That is to say, Mr Nadal, in the coming years there are two new areas of play to be defined that involve two of the most powerful sectors of our country: electricity and telecoms, and you will be able to do so without any independent body with sufficient powers to ensure the correct application of regulation and the actual existence of competition. You are going to try to justify it, but the reality is that you are failing to comply with a European standard with full awareness of it, either because you do not like it or because it does not seem fair to you. So, Mr Nadal, we ask you to return to European legality, to respect the European directives on the powers of regulatory agencies and to put yourself to work by an independent regulator with sufficient resources to fulfil its role, as it is essential in the energy transition that is already under way. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u191	Thank you very much, Mrs Martínez Rodríguez. Next, on behalf of the Government, I have the floor of the Minister for Energy, Tourism and the Digital Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. The first thing I want to do is to thank you, as it is not often that such important issues as the design of Europe's energy future are discussed in this House. Many times we are too eager to hear news and news that perhaps only last two or three days in the media, if it lasts, while - you are right - the issue that has brought to debate today is transcendental. Therefore, although I obviously do not agree with most of your approaches, I find this question very correct and the first thing I wanted to do was to thank you. I will start with the end, a subject that has nothing to do with the fundamental element. Look, there is only one competition under discussion with the National Commission on Markets and Competition, and it is true that on the part of the European Commission there is a dossier: how to fix not the tariffs, Mrs Martínez, but the tolls of access to the network by different consumers. The Commission is of the opinion that the regulatory bodies have to do this, and we believe that this House and the Government have to do this. The directive is not clear. The vision of some is that it says one thing and the vision of others is that it says another. In any case, we will see how the procedure ends, because we can come to an agreement or not. However, I also tell you that the Basque Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group have tabled amendments on this issue in the development of the decree-law we made on drought. That is to say, the Socialist Group and the Basque Parliamentary Group think that this House has something to say about access tolls, and so does the People's Group. Perhaps you do not think - perhaps - that the European Commission thinks that we have exceeded the competence not of the Government, but of Parliament, on this issue and that is what we are discussing. I'll leave it there. It's the only competition that's in question. The others are perfectly assumed and the royal decree of the structure of the ministry has perfectly assumed what exists right now in the legal regulations. Let's get to the theme of the winter package. The winter package - as you know and have said well - are a series of rules, several, that define virtually everything that is energy policy in Europe from 2020 to 2030. We have an internal market directive, an internal market regulation, a regulation on regulatory cooperation, a regulation on renewable energy, another regulation on governance, an energy efficiency directive, another directive on energy efficiency in buildings and the regulation on risks in the electricity sector. All this forms a very important package as a whole, which not only aims to achieve environmental objectives - there you have had a certain bias - but of course to comply with the Paris agreements and that Europe is making progress on decarbonisation, but also has a huge impact on the need to improve the competitiveness of European companies and on the need for electricity to be accessible to consumers. That is, we are not only talking about environmental issues, but we are also talking about price issues, economic issues, issues affecting millions and millions of industrial jobs in Europe every day. That is why it is very important to do things carefully, because we are in a transition in which we do not have the technological development we would like to have and we have to move forward according to that technological development works. What is the status of the negotiations? You know that on 26 June the Council adopted a common position on the Energy Efficiency Directive. What did we do as a government? Since you ask and do well to ask, I answer you. First of all, we are part of all majorities. There the discussion was whether the target was rising from 27 % to 30 % - and Spain supported the rise to 30 % - and then whether it was binding or not. We, in order to shape the majority constructively, support whether it was binding or not, because in the background that it is binding, since there is no very clear governance behind it, it was also not so relevant. Whether it has to be binding or not, it was not legally clear. So it was not clear that when the common orientation of the whole Council was adopted, the word was eliminated and the trialogues became ambiguous. And as we saw that this was the important discussion, but in practical terms it was not so important and the important thing was to raise the target from 27% to 30%, we support all the majorities. It is therefore not true that we were not in favour of binding. If it had come out binding, we would have supported it and if it had gone out non-binding we would have supported it too; in the end, neither came out. You can go to the polls and see it. What did we want? We wanted two things. Firstly, that long-term investments should be favoured, because as the directive is being promoted much more, it accounts for much more of a short-term investment, which has an effect on energy efficiency, energy saving in a very short time - for example, changing an air conditioner - which, for example, is the coating of a building, which can last you the entire life of the building but is calculated only for ten years and such investments are delayed. And we managed to substantially improve the calculation for the degree of compliance with these types of investments, which do not have so much immediate effect but last over time, save a lot more on energy efficiency and are much more useful. And secondly, thanks to the Spanish position and the support of Commissioner Arias Cañete, the condition was changed in Eurostat. It does not cease to compute as deficit and debt, but allows it to be reprocessed. In other words, instead of a large investment in a university in energy efficiency that accounts for the whole of the first year and therefore generates a lot of expenditure, it can be reperiodized over the course of the depreciation of that investment, with which the deficit impact is much better and will be much more affordable. Therefore, the three main objectives we had for this negotiation were: first, to help build majorities and go up the target; secondly, the efficiency of buildings, both private and public - that better compute as an alternative to energy efficiency - and, thirdly, the element of public buildings. And the three were achieved. By the end of this year we will have another of the major discussions, two of the key directives: one is governance and the other is internal market. Why do we care about interconnections? Look, the interconnections aren't the pleasure of electrics; it's the opposite: it's more competition, electricity comes from outside and usually cheaper. Then don't say I'm doing it in favor of the electrics because either you're biasedly arguing and making a value judgment or you're not being rigorous. Obviously, when competition comes in from outside at a cheaper price the companies here do not generate and are not selling electricity at the most expensive price. In entry, it's more competition for the market. But here the important thing is that Spain, being an isolated system, has much more difficulty in managing the increase in renewable energy. It's happening now. By the way, I do not know if you know that, of the big countries, it is by far the country that has installed the most renewable energy and that with the two auctions that we have made this year we will reach 19.8% of the renewable target, when we have 20% by 2020. We are, by contrast, the country that not only set itself more goals, but is more quickly fulfilling them. That is to say that this is a government that is not meeting the environmental objectives. I believe it is once again a judgment of value. You are in your role, but in such an important debate I would ask you a little bit more rigour. Interconnections. The Gulf of Biscay is a submarine and is obviously an expensive project, it is true, it will cost about EUR 60 million in the next twenty-five years throughout its life of amortisation, but the savings for the consumer as a whole that means having an interconnection with the rest of Europe are EUR 330 million a year; that is, a ratio of more than five to one in the benefit to consumers in relation to their cost. I don't know why you think this is a bad business for Spain because it's an extraordinary business. That is why, as the rest of the European Union pays for it through CEF funds and the French state pays for it and there is a great benefit to consumers, there has been a lot of discussion here, because they obviously want us to pay more. Even so, the agreement that the CNMC has made seems reasonable to me. By the way, most of the things you are asking me are the responsibility of an independent body, and that independent body will know whether it wants to give you that information or not, because this type of negotiation is carried by the vast majority of the National Commission on Markets and Competition. Interconnections are basic. Firstly, because they generate more competition in the market and help to have better prices, similar to those of the rest of Europe. As you know, seasonally we do not have the same prices as the rest of Europe, for example in summer and part of spring, and Germany and France score better prices than we do. We would have access to those German and French prices. Secondly, because renewables are very difficult to manage, they are intermittent. We cannot know when it rains or wind like today, when it suns or when we will need to cover the thermal gap. The flexibility of the system. It is true that with these auctions and as technology advances we have moved from a world where green was expensive to a world where green is no longer expensive but needs flexibility, it needs that when we do not have renewable energy we can use thermal energy, today technology does not allow anything else. We have to use thermal energy. By the way, which one? Do you want to get rid of coal? Because the government doesn't. The Government believes that this is not necessary. As long as we meet our CO2 emissions targets, why remove coal plants? I am saying this because your group is supporting the elimination of coal plants. This affects many people in Spain. As long as it does not harm environmental objectives, this government will defend coal plants. I say this because it would be interesting for you to look at the impact on consumer prices and jobs of the removal of coal plants. We have to use the thermals. And how do we pay for the thermals? It's an unsolved issue. It's not a gift and a subsidy, it's more expensive flexibility, it's more expensive now. Now that every day we get home, we turn on the switch and there's electricity, it's expensive, because when there's not enough renewable we have to start up at almost immediate speed, almost instantaneously the thermal power plants to fill the shortage of renewables. To have stations waiting for there to be no renewables in order to be able to start up and there to be no lack of production and, therefore, a drop in tension and blackouts - for us to understand - that must be paid for. How do we pay for it? That is a good question because nobody in the European Union has a well-defined answer, they have nothing clear about it. Some think in one way, others think in another, it would have been interesting if you had attended the panels of experts prior to the last informal council, which we had in September, because there was much discussion about this and in the end everyone remains raising the problems well but not finding the solutions well. That's why this is going to give a lot to talk about, how they repay each other. Of course, with a country with little interconnection like Spain it is not easy to have a market in which we do not have payments for capacity, because we would have to pay all the flexibility with the price peaks. And then you will come to criticize me that in winter the price of megawatt hour has exceeded 100 euros, 130 euros or 140 euros. I do agree with you - and that is something that we have talked about with the European Commission - that this must be done through competitive systems, through some auction system that allows us to reveal what the cost of this flexibility really is. But, as I said, interconnections are basic because if not Spain would have to pay much more to manage its renewables. Right now, the fact that we do not have interconnections leads us to pay the Spanish more EUR 12 billion a year than the rest of the Europeans for the renewables that we have because we have to manage that energy with national support; we cannot buy the energy from outside when we lack it and, therefore, we have to do it with very expensive power stations. The reactive energy and the amount of energy that is produced and that we cannot evacuate or sell out and that we throw into the sea has a cost of 12 billion and if we do not substantially improve the interconnection and we go to much higher objectives, of twenty or thirty percent renewables, can increase the costs to the Spanish citizens because they do not have interconnections. What I'm telling you is that I don't think it's fair for Spain to contribute to climate change at cost to every citizen and to the consumer more than anyone else. We will have to contribute in the same relationship as others, and that is the basis of our discussion. We contribute the same economically, but if there is no physical interconnection we cannot have the same physical amount of contribution, because if we physically contribute the same amount of renewables as the rest we will be paying them much more for the lack of interconnection. It would be good for the Spanish to pay more for climate change than the Germans, Danes, Finns, Swedes, richer countries than us, but to the Government of Spain we do not and that is why we maintain this position. Anyway, as I was saying, I appreciate this discussion. We would already like to have it more intense than in a twelve-minute inquiry, because you are right that this issue is key and should have much more political and media attention. I thank you again for bringing me to this rostrum. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u193	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Martínez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u194	Obviously, I don't agree. There is legal evidence, which we will have time to discuss in depth, that the actual decree of structuring of the Ministry of Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda contravenes the directives. But, as I tell you, we'll have time to discuss it. It is curious that you talk to me about technological development that we do not have; you, who represent a government and a party that has destroyed science and research in this country. We have Ciemat, the centre responsible for energy research and reference in Europe, on the verge of administrative and financial collapse. The deficit of science and research in this country amounts to EUR 20 billion, half of the bank rescue. So if there is not enough technological development in this country to make the energy transition, maybe you and your party have some responsibility. He tells me that a binding target doesn't make a difference. As weak as governance is, you know as well as I do that it is the binding objectives by countries that make strategies effective or not, and that is what these directives have, this legislative package, which in addition to objectives set strategies. So, we do ask for binding targets. The interconnections, with the information we have today, can be back-up or output; they can be perfectly an output for the gas, for the combined cycles, which we have absolutely stopped, which were the energy bubble of the 1990s and to which the electrics are wishing to give out. What happens when Spain exports, as it spent last winter on the nuclear stop in France? Let the prices go up. If the interconnections are to be used to export energy to France, the electricity mix that we have today will automatically trigger the price of electricity. Don't demagogy with coal. I grew up in a mining area and I've been watching how they are squandered, how the Miner funds that were meant to give the future and an alternative to the mining basins are badly invested, and that is the responsibility of both the People's Party, which has been in government, and the Socialist Party. So don't demagogue with coal. They know that coal is part of the past and that what needs to be sought is a just transition and a future action for people living in the mining basins and in areas where there are thermal and nuclear power plants, because their closure will come sooner or later. And I'm not saying it, the energy transition says it. [[Applauds]] He says interconnections will give us flexibility. I insist, has the Government explored other alternatives to flexibility? What about energy storage? What about energy saving? What about demand management? That will give us flexibility and yet it is not contemplated in any of your speeches. Obviously, we need to read different literature, because renewable energies lower the price is a reality today. I think we have mixed visions of numbers and what energy transition can be made. Their price-based short-term vision contravenes all strategies and studies, which indicate that a greater effort will now entail greater flexibility in the future. Greater efforts in the electricity sector will now prevent much more drastic measures in the future for agriculture and industry. If you, by safeguarding the interests of electricity, are compromising the future of industry and agriculture, it is not fair. And if what you're telling me is that there's not going to be ambitious goals either now or in the medium term, what you're telling me is that you don't believe climate change at all. Because it is true that we are all talking here about the objectives of Paris, that we have to fight for environmental objectives, but do you know what the difference is? Awareness of the urgency of action and the commitment of its actions, and the actions of its Government indicate that it has no commitment and that its energy and climate policy has no credibility. And don't try to get me involved in the environment. The environment today is social, it's economic, it's innovation, it's technological development. He says that it is much more expensive for Spain to fight climate change, but it is that Spain suffers much more from climate change; we suffer much more. It can be said to people who suffer from heat waves and are in a state of energy poverty and cannot afford to pay for air conditioning; tell it to farmers, who are losing their crops and seeing their livelihoods threatened by droughts and high temperatures; tell it to people in Galicia, Asturias and León, who have seen their lives, homes and lands calcined by temperatures and drought that are going to be constant. [[Applauds]] To the people who suffer, to the people who are paying the bill for the consequences of climate change on their daily lives, tell them that it is much more expensive to act against climate change than to do nothing; tell them, Mr Nadal. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u195	Thank you very much, Mrs Martínez Rodríguez. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u196	Mrs Martínez, you remind me of a conversation that I had, which I was very concerned about, with a Green Group MEP who told me that he had the objective of paying high energy prices in Spain because so environmental objectives were better achieved and renewable energy was made more profitable. You tell me that this is a long-term vision, but I believe that this is a harm to our consumers, to our jobs and to our competitiveness. I'm saying it so clearly. I have a different vision than yours. Mine is: we have sustainable environmental objectives, which means that with the same costs as the rest of the Europeans. If Europe accounts for 10% of the world's CO2 emissions and Spain is 10% of Europe, we are 1% of the world's CO2 emissions and therefore we have to make our contribution. Now, given the objectives of CO2 - I am very clear, I will say this as a government - my aim is to make electricity as cheap as possible for our industries, for our businesses, for our tourism, for our farmers. That is my goal as Minister of Energy because we have a problem called unemployment, and to lower unemployment we have to grow, and to grow, for every euro we spend on energy is a euro we don't pay on wages in any company. This is it. You tell me we have very expensive prices now and let's go way ahead of the technology now because that in the long term is going to have performance. [[Mrs. Martínez Rodríguez makes negative signs]] That's what he's told me; now he's telling me no, but that's what he's told me. Look, that's what we thought when they got fully immature renewables in 2008, 2009 and 2010, which we're paying at 7 billion euros a year for twenty-five years. Do you know the R & D that could have been promoted with that, instead of putting immature technologies that we have imported and have not developed, except wind industry, in our country none of that? Now, that's right, we had to do the kind of policy you're telling us we have to do. Well, I'm the one who thinks we need to learn from the mistakes of the past. If we go ahead with ideology... Because, unless you tell me that you lead a research group that is already going to get a substantial and also palpable and applicable improvement in storage, for example, unless you tell me that you really have that technical capability, that I don't have, I have to see how the technology is evolving, because everyone here promises a lot and dreams a lot, but the reality is that when mistakes are made they cost 7 billion euros a year, which is one third of the electricity bill of any company and of the households in this country and we could have saved that energy policy error. And you tell me to do the same again: to dream of a world with a technology that does not exist today and to make decisions like shutting down coal or nuclear power and a number of other issues that we cannot afford. If we close the coal, it is 15% more price rise on the tips; if we close the nuclear, it is 25% all over the base, that is, throughout the year, price rise, and it is not because of the electrics, because the electrics are interested in high prices, but not because of the government. The government is interested in prices that are much more moderate and all that you say, which sounds very nice, goes to the reception of light, and in this country we have already made too many mistakes that have gone to the reception of light. Since the energy reform, another kind of energy policy has to be implemented. And is that incompatible with environmental objectives? No, the renewables that have now entered these auctions go to market. They do not cost the Spanish a euro; instead, they increase competition. Now, going ahead with ideology, instead of knowing how the state of affairs is, what do we do with the thermal gap? You tell me that in the future it will not be necessary to cover it, but it is that, today, when there is not enough renewable, it is necessary to produce with another type of energy. What, how does it pay, what network does it have, and how can we make the system much more interconnected, cost less and integrate it into a European whole? This is about what we're discussing, about realities. Mrs. Martinez, I'm going to tell you something that might surprise you. At the European Council there are governments of all the signs, generally moderate, of centre-right and centre-left - to the Greek Government defend it as you wish - but including the Greek Government - and I am speaking also of the rest of the governments - they speak very much like the way I am speaking from this rostrum. You speak from another perspective: not having responsibility and painting a world of pink. But then this world of pink the responsible governments, the politicians that we are in government's responsibility we have to see what impact it has on the receipt of people's electricity, we have to see what effect it has on employment and we have to see how much industrial production can be destroyed or not with a world painted of pink that ends up painted of unemployed color. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-10-18-CD171018.u197	Thank you very much, Minister. The meeting was suspended. It was twelve and five minutes from noon. Error correction. In the Journal of Sessions number 82, for the plenary session held on Tuesday 17 October 2017, page 14, the dossier number 122/000109 appearing in the title is to be replaced by the dossier number 122/000102.
