ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. We begin with the point concerning the consideration of proposals for legislation, in particular the proposal for a law of the Joint Parliamentary Group, amending Law 1/2000 of 7 January on Civil Prosecution, which regulates a specific procedure to ensure the possession of dwellings owned by natural persons and to ensure to social entities and public administrations the availability of dwellings intended for social rental. Mrs Ciuró i Buldó has the floor for the presentation of the initiative and, where appropriate, for the establishment of a position.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u2	Good afternoon and thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about housing occupations, we usually think of two issues: the hundreds of empty dwellings, as a result of evictions, which are owned by financial institutions and by families in a situation of housing exclusion - that is, without housing - and which see in the occupation a possibility of access to one. However, today we want to talk about another reality; a reality to which we cannot close our eyes or turn our backs. I am referring to the reality that he is living, for example, José Manuel, owner of a house in Cubelles to which he was travelling on weekends with his family and to which he can no longer go because he is illegally occupied. His lawyer tells him that he has at least two years of litigation, and he wrote us a cruel and hard email that said how it could be that he and his family were not protected enough; that they felt weak and helpless and without any agile legal journey to assert their rights. We understand that an answer must be given so that the law of the strongest is not the one that prevails. We want to protect people like José Manuel, who have a property that is the result of savings, as well as to protect people who have an award-winning social housing that they cannot access because they are illegally occupied. Another example is the municipality of Mataró, ruled by the Socialist Party. His house councillor lamented and said: We have eighty houses that have been given to us by the financial institutions with great effort; we have all occupied them; we cannot do social policy. She said they're in the hands of mobs that abuse people's vulnerability. Today there are hundreds of homes in the hands of public administrations for social policies, but they cannot fulfil this purpose because they are occupied. The Generalitat de Catalunya, for example, has 322 in these extremes. It turns out that there is a reality to which we cannot close our eyes, and that there are organized networks, real mafias, which locate empty floors, whoever they are, change the bombardment and give them in exchange for 600 euros or 1,000 euros if the occupant also wants connection - pirate, of course - to the basic supplies. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u3	One second, Mrs. Ciuro. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please do not listen to Mrs Ciuro. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u4	As I said, there are mafias who charge huge amounts of money, obviously in the form of a submerged economy, sometimes taking advantage of people in irregular administrative situations and whose vital economic circumstances nobody knows exactly what it is. Today there is an organized submerged economy that acts with total comfort and that makes a very high profit at the expense of the precariousness of others, because it offers time, because it turns out that there is no effective mechanism to be able to evict people who occupy illegally. The procedures are lengthy, costly and, on the basis of the dilatation in the time of these judicial proceedings, boast of being able to install people in dwellings that do not correspond to them and guarantee that no one will disturb them in their occupation, because there is no agile civil procedure to remedy this situation. Today we want to face this problem, this reality. We want to amend the law, in order to be able to carry out the eviction of illegal occupations of floors owned by natural persons and also those in the hands of administrations or NGOs that have a social housing destination. Those who must have effective tools to make social policy are the various institutions, not the small owners, not the mafias. We want to give a solution to this problem, because it is dramatic and tremendously unfair to see that someone occupies your home - whether it's the usual home or if it's a second home, the result of saving - and that you can't do anything about it. From some platforms we have been criticized and told that we are protecting the big forks, because it turns out that there are natural people who have ten, fifteen or twenty homes in their possession and we also protect them. Perhaps there is some case of someone who has all these houses, but normally, because of a simple question of property management and tax savings, these real estate assets tend to be invested in assets, investment funds or limited companies, and this proposal for a law is not intended for them. It is also not intended for those who cannot pay mortgage fees or those who cannot pay rental rents. What's your destiny? Protect small owners and protect the effectiveness of social housing policies. It is the commitment of the Democratic Party to make policies to ensure decent housing for people at risk of housing exclusion is unquestionable - we have not in vain allocated 109 million euros in this year's budget of the Generalitat for these policies - but it is also the responsibility of the public administration to ensure that this public money is spent on effective policies. For this reason, we must address the side effects that damage living together, undermine property and condemn inefficiency of public housing policies, and this is whether they like it or not. The law of the strongest cannot prevail, because it condemns the most vulnerable families to be cannon meat of criminal organizations. With this proposal for a law we want to articulate an agile mechanism by civil means - which does not exist - to ensure that whoever has a home can recover it as soon as possible if it is occupied by someone illegally. We want to strengthen the immediate availability of the housing stock for social rent by public administrations and NGOs, so that they can put them at the service of those who have seen this right recognized but who cannot access it because they are, as I say, occupied. The long judicial, criminal or administrative process can no longer protect the mafias who manage to install people in homes, profit from the misfortune of others and from the vulnerability of others; in fact, it is our duty to remove these obstacles. Besides - if you want to see it, you will understand me - there is also a guarantee for people who have to be evicted. What guarantee is that? That the judge in charge of the case must inform the competent administration of the existence of the opening of this process, in order for the administration to be able to identify these persons, to assess whether they are really at housing risk and to grant them social housing either through the social emergency tables or through the regulatory procedure that the administration has for this purpose. Therefore, detecting the phenomenon will allow these mafias to be persecuted. Now they're hidden, they're in hiding. We therefore propose a process with all the guarantees, and to say otherwise is simply a falsehood. At the same time, we allow organized mafias to be disarmed, since they will not be able to offer housing on the excuse that the delay in the process will facilitate their undisturbability in the process. Not wanting to understand in these terms the proposition is simply incomprehensible and only protects it, if I may, demagoguery. We do not criminalize poverty, we want to end the mafias; there is countless casuistic really exasperating, and before counting the case of the public housing of Mataró. The city council is powerless to be able to make housing policy with the eighty houses that it has managed to rescue or that the banks gave to it. Without a doubt, the competent administrations must have immediate availability of housing intended for social rental in order to guarantee the rights of those who have been granted the right to have one, and all this through established circuits. It is the duty, as I said, of the legislator to remove the obstacles. These criminal occupations - many of you know it and have to recognise it - are generating many problems in the neighbourhood communities and neighbourhoods where they take place, because to supply, as I have told you, basic services - water, light, gas - fraudulently manipulate the facilities with the conscious risk that this poses. The existence of abuses is known and yet they are difficult to detect and investigate. We must protect small owners, we must protect people who have the right to social housing. For example, another issue that has appeared in the press in recent days is La Llagosta. It turns out that some small owners were able to buy houses after having obtained a credit - which was not easy for them -, after giving signal and in addition to paying the conspicuous valuation to be able to expertize the house, and it turns out that, when they had the house ready for them to have it, two organizations went ahead and occupied these houses, leaving them on the street. The whole town was up against those houses. These are not the channels that we should favour in order to ensure that the right to decent housing is respected; in fact, the head of the PAH himself, in La Llagosta, said that these kinds of occupations are unworthy and cause serious damage to the groups working for decent housing, and that is exactly the case. I insist, today and always will find us in order to demand more and better housing policies; to ensure the balance of the parties in the contractual relationship and that all abusive clauses, ground clauses are reinstated; to guarantee a sufficient public park and, therefore, that the floors assigned to public administrations are increased by the financial institutions that ultimately have them because they abused their power in the execution of mortgages - and it has been seen - with abusive clauses. This is what we claim. At the same time, it is necessary not to close your eyes to reality, which is what we have come to explain to you today. The vote against this bill sends out the following message: Yes, we allow the mafia to continue to work at the expense of the weakest, that the law of the strongest or the smartest if possible prevails; yes, we want to prevent people who have awarded a social housing from accessing it, beating them with it to feed the mafia wheel, because they need a housing. Furthermore, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I do not know what you are finally going to do, but if you vote no to this proposal for a law which you leave at the foot of the horses, it is the Socialist Party of Catalonia, which has precisely presented a motion resulting from an inquiry in Parliament that asks exactly the same thing: the amendment of the Civil Prosecution Act in this house, which is the one that has the powers today. Some are obsessed with the powerful, say this law favors the powerful. Well, look, yes, it favors the powerful like José Manuel, the powerful like La Llagosta, that the only power they have and want to have is to be able to access their home. If this is your defense of human rights, let God come down and see him. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u5	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, I have the floor, by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Barandiaran Benito.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u6	Good afternoon, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The need to articulate more suitable summary paths for the recovery of dwellings under occupation without consent and against the will of their owner or usurper is undoubtedly a debate that we believe to be impracticable and urgent, because we have been immersed in a debate of a different kind for too long, even when it is reviewed with a social appearance, coupled with a phenomenon such as occupation without title or justification, which must be dispelled from the accreditation of the real need for housing and which has never been or will never be an alternative movement to solve the problem of housing shortage. As the proposed law denounces, this has sometimes been a method of obtaining compensation and thus profit from those who have materialized similar acts. That is why this debate is also of a political nature, because it affects to a large extent values of basic and constitutional relief, such as the protection of the right to property and of solidarity itself and the guarantee of the right to housing from democratic models and from respect for the law and the law. It is legitimate to disagree and denounce these policies when they are ineffective, as has been the case in many cases, such as that relating to housing security, but it is inadmissible to distort such policies until they are made unrecognizable in a system of guarantees that is covered by the law. It is important, therefore, in my view, to distinguish that the proposal for a law is aimed exclusively at reducing the effects of housing claims in the absence of any valid legal title. The proposed law has the virtue, in my view, of proposing to the Legislature a strengthened system of protection for the user of a house, which is more or less diffuse in law today, and it states that this correction is necessary because the current law is ineffective, both because of the abuse of law that has existed and because of a lack of effective response from both the legislator and the courts themselves. It also points out, from the point of view of legitimizing the particular process it implements, a restriction that the possibility of using this particular route is limited to natural persons, social entities or public administrations, and that in principle seems to us to be a first correct and weighted response to avoid situations of defencelessness. But above all, what we think is right about this proposal is that it combines the problem with an amendment it proposes to introduce in article 441 of the Civil Procedure Act, concerning the fact that the judicial authority, at the same time as the transfer of the claim, must notify the competent social services of a discharge order in order to enable them to take the appropriate measures, it is assumed that in order to deal with a possible situation of unprotected occupants, who would be unemployed if such a circumstance were to occur. This, for its part, implies the proper targeting of social obligations towards their true responsibility, because what is inappropriate is to divert the problem of housing towards individuals, as is the case today with the phenomenon of illegal occupation, since it is the public authorities, and not the private individuals, who are responsible for the protection of the content of the right referred to in article 47 of the Constitution. The proposal for a law is also aware of the urgency of an effective solution. It is an urgent measure not only because of the proliferation of cases in which the legal response has not been sufficiently clear or effective, but also because it is necessary to clarify to legal interpreters, both citizens and courts and tribunals, that there is a recognized and effective solution unequivocally. As it is today, it is also a problem of a procedural nature. Its solution is therefore aimed at amending these parameters of the Civil Prosecution Act. Both the procedural practice and the doctrine already elude today that criminal measures can be useful on the basis of the principle of minimal intervention and the solutions to which 245.2 of the Criminal Code has been applied have been isolated. This must therefore be understood as an inadequate procedural channel for the solution of this problem. On the contrary, it is necessary to postpone the discussion of these measures, of the necessary measures, towards the civil procedure, although it is necessary to question the suitability of the means used by the verbal process of article 250 of the Civil Prosecution Act, which has so far proved insufficient. The proposal for a law, without prejudice to its subsequent discussion if it is estimated, offers a way that combines the characteristics of efficiency and speed, that seems to preserve the procedural and material guarantees on the merits and that limits the effects of things judged on the decision taken in the judgment. That is why I understand that it is correct, without prejudice to the fact that it can be discussed at a later stage. At the time, it will have to be discussed whether it is better suited to the characteristics of precautionary justice or to those of civil proceedings. Precautionary justice deals with specific cases referred to in section 727 of the Civil Prosecution Act, but it can also be treated as a specialty of the oral procedure, as appears to indicate its submission to section 441 of the Civil Prosecution Act. Where appropriate, it should be noted from the proposal that it combines the characteristics of efficiency and speed and meets a requirement of the law according to which no social problem materialized in the form of litigation should be excluded from the possibility of a judicial response which can effectively protect the right invoked, even if it may be with the provisional character of the interim justice system. In addition, I would like to point out once again that there is a highlight in the proposal, which is the combination of this mechanism with that concerning the administration of justice itself, which activates the social sources of protection that can be derived from a situation of lack of housing in the face of the phenomenon of unemployment. I understand that this is a reasonable and effective response, which can prevent both the situation of homelessness and, where appropriate, the possibility that the recipient of the unemployment may return to a new home. Finally, and from the procedural point of view, it is also appropriate to provide for the absence of any effects of the judgement, which, while it is possible to preach from all the summary proceedings of article 251 of the Civil Prosecution Act, is particularly appropriate to specify in such a specific procedure. Therefore, and taking into account all the characteristics and, above all, the problem to which an effective solution is intended, we believe that the debate is timely and necessary. We will therefore vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u7	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u8	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, and before entering into the substantive issue of the proposal for a law which PDECAT is asking for and defends Mrs Ciuro, allow me, Madam President, to express my full solidarity with President Mas and the former advisers of the Government of Catalonia, Mrs Rigau and Mrs Ortega. [[Applauds]] Yes, despite the Spanish Government and the majority of this House, we have done it and we will do it again. This last statement allows me to defend the position of Republican Left. We will do so again because the State to which we currently belong and which we do not want to be a party - you know - does not guarantee the well-being of people. For this reason - among other things - Esquerra Republicana works and aspires to build an independent State, the Catalan Republic, which guarantees as a fundamental right, the trunk law of the future Catalan constitution, the right to housing and which is not limited - as is the case in the sacrosanct Spanish Constitution - to recognize that the right to housing constitutes a unique and simply a guiding principle of social and economic policy. This is reflected in article 47 of the Spanish Constitution, which states that all Spaniards have the right to enjoy decent and adequate housing and the public authorities have an obligation to promote the necessary conditions and this will be established by law. On the contrary, in Title I, of the fundamental rights and duties, article 33 of the Spanish Constitution provides for the right to private property and inheritance and, indeed, also the social function of private property. In this context, I insist, that of the Spanish State, this proposal for a law is presented which, as no one escapes, does not intend - it does not and does not want to - to solve the problem of the right to housing, and this is what Esquerra Republicana considers worrying. Indeed, it does not contain real solutions to the real problem of thousands of people who have been forced - either by executive procedures derived from mortgage procedures or because they cannot pay rent - to leave their homes. This has happened in Spain in the recent past, but it continues to do so without measures being taken by the State to change it. What measures? I think of a few, probably in the opposite direction to those that have been adopted during all these years. For example, the promotion of leasing. Let us look at Europe in relation to the continuity of rental contracts, the limits to the rental price and the conditions under which housing is rented, among other circumstances. Also tax policies that penalize speculation and construction of public housing parks, among other measures. Surely neither the policies of the right nor the policies of a certain left helped; it did not help the reform of the Urban Leasing Act or the promotion of housing acquisition policies that encouraged us all to be owners. The housing bubble has caused thousands of victims, but at the same time we must denounce the inability of the system to solve the problem and, of course, the lack of political will to do so. For all of us to remember and no one to forget the data, which are important to know what we are talking about, I will tell you that in 2016 in the Spanish state there were 60,000 evictions, 166 per day; in the Spanish state only 2% is social housing and it is in the Spanish state where there are more evictions in Europe, 3.44 million empty houses. 13.7% of the housing stock is empty, accounting for 31% of the empty housing stock in Europe. So that no one has any doubts about it, so that what Esquerra Republicana has never said or will never say is not said, Esquerra Republicana defends the right to private property, I insist, Esquerra Republicana defends the right to private property. In this bill, there are no measures against the mafia and no more means for the Administration to be able to combat these mafia. I do not doubt the goodwill of Mrs Ciuró, at all, nor do I doubt the origin of the proposed law that we are debating today; I do not doubt the considerations taken into account by the Bar Association of Barcelona in making this proposal, nor do I doubt the participation that the lawyer who defends the interests of the Platform in defense of those affected by the mortgage, which also agreed with some measures proposed in this proposed law. Let us remember as obvious - because it is - that most occupations are empty housing that comes from evictions and is in the hands of the bank and large forks. It is also true that this proposal for a law that we are considering today does not protect either the big forks or the bank; I insist, this proposal for a law does not protect either the big forks or the bank. The unfortunate thing about the proposed law is that it does not address, as I said before, the need to guarantee the right to housing, for obvious reasons, because the Spanish Constitution does not include it as a fundamental right. At this point, it would be good, in view of the development of many rights that have been called the second generation, for the Spanish State - in this case the People's Party Government - to reconsider the need to incorporate the right to housing as a fundamental right. As long as this doesn't happen, we have the crop broth needed to keep them suffering the usual ones and reward the actions of the mobsters and the extortioners. Mrs Ciuró, with all due respect and appreciation for the goodwill and goodness of the initiative, without measures that guarantee the effective right to housing, our vote, the vote of Esquerra Republicana, will be negative, with all the contradictions that this entails and that I have pointed out in my intervention, because politics is life and life is contradictory on many occasions. Therefore, the Republican Left vote will be negative. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Girauta has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a good time to break some threads because it seems that some here even want to turn the right to housing into a fundamental right, as long as the housing is not theirs. [[Applauds]] We must not forget that the first person who has the right to housing is the one who bought it. There are evictions and evictions, and there are occupations and occupations, and it is a good time to distinguish between them because we are mixing issues that are very serious, truly serious vulnerability problems, with a range of different situations that end up in real mafia matters, in real mafia organizations and the mere fact of mixing it seems to me that it does not contribute anything to understanding, to understanding the problem. We rule out cases of eviction in situations of need, in situations of vulnerability, people and families who have been evicted and who are on the street, evictions motivated by mortgage executions. We also distinguish the occupations carried out by the okupa movement, movement, let's say, cultural, which in no way assumes that those who are carrying out the occupation are in that situation. There are, for example, those who are currently protected by the Mayor of Barcelona, according to the Barcelona Urban Guard yesterday. Here, too, is - I particularly love the proponents - the former mayor of Barcelona, whom the prosecutor accused of legitimizing the so-called expropriated bank's occupations, for which all the Barcelonans had to pay 65,500 euros, since Mr Trias, being mayor, had thought to pay with municipal funds the rent so that they would not evict the occupied ones. There is a problem of organized mafias, especially in Catalonia - in other places too, for example in Madrid, but especially in Catalonia - who use occupation for a purely lucrative purpose, to take advantage of vulnerable families. That is why it is truly tearing that the situations of the mobster who takes advantage of the vulnerable are mixed with the situation of the vulnerable. [[Applauds]] Against these mobsters we have to act, against these mobsters we have to do pedagogy and explain, tell those who have been lucky not to be affected by their activities that these mobsters have two lines of business, in quotes. One, they are introduced into an empty house, in less than six hours they introduce the furniture, they have contracts of supplies, they offer false appearance of possession and the only object of this action is blackmail, blackmailing the owner to whom they ask for financial compensation for leaving; that is, that the owner is paying... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u11	One second, Mr. Girauta. Ladies and gentlemen, I am seeing that some of you have been talking ten minutes without stopping. I'm not giving any names because there are up to six. They have been speaking for ten minutes and it is impossible to listen to Mr Girauta and the gentlemen who have spoken before. It's disrespectful, and I've told you, I don't know how many times. It is an absolute lack of respect for the speaker; anyone who does not want to listen, who leaves the Chamber, is not obliged, should be something we would gladly do. But please, if you want to talk, get out of the Chamber. Go on, Mr. Girauta.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u12	Thank you very much, President. Another line of business - in quotes - is that of those who trade with the opportunity of occupation. That is, they also take advantage of the vulnerable, the people who are in a situation of eviction, and sell them the information of the housing they have located and who, let's say, have decided to stay in their criminal portfolio to trade with the misfortune of others. These companies or business formulas - with all the quotes, obviously - specialized in the misfortune of others, are often also presented as mediators, that is to say those who negotiate the exit of the occupied house from which this sinister lottery has touched. It seems to me that we cannot remain impassable and that the institutional response is already a real necessity. Therefore - I do not know if I have already said this - we are going to vote in favour of the proposers. But we would like to see that, in view of the problem and its gravity, we do not stick to a reform of the Civil Procedure Act, but we also amend the Criminal Code; it seems to us, therefore, that this is the time to announce that we will be submitting amendments. We believe that the possibility of agreeing to the surrender of possession, as you say, with the admission to the proceedings of the application or the possibility of requesting execution without waiting for the general period of twenty days is fine, it seems perfect to us. It also seems to us that the case of natural persons, which you include, but the legal ones should be expanded; think, for example, of a family enterprise, which engages up to the eyebrows in a promotion, in a relatively modest construction and turns out that its houses are occupied. [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah, because when they're busy, when that family suddenly runs out of resources and can't pay the bank, they can't just not pay that family, they can't pay all the supplier companies that that family or family business has hired. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] It's a snowball effect. Although to understand this at best it is also necessary to understand a little what are the mechanisms of generating wealth, apart from knowing those of the distribution of wealth. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] In conclusion, I would like to recall that citizens, in paragraph 35 of the investment agreement with the People's Party, included, by regulating the second opportunity, the payment of the usual housing while maintaining the right to stay in the house for three years with an income not exceeding 30% of the income of the debtor's family unit. Therefore, so we also avoid the action of the mafias. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen of the government party: let us implement the second chance law, which, in addition to being in our agreement, is also, as regards the moratorium on the extension of evictions until 2020, in a mandate from this House adopted in the Committee on Economic Affairs. That will also help prevent more victims of these mafias. I have referred earlier - and I think I have some time left - to a reform of the Criminal Code. We propose a point 3 in article 245, in which the occupation of the property is collected with force in things with a prison sentence of one to two years. We are breaking up; there are, as I have said, evictions and evictions, and there are occupations and occupations. Do not paint the problem of a single color because it has many colors and some that present themselves as disadvantaged are truly scoundrels that play and traffic with the misfortune of others. Do not think of yourselves as powerful to the victims because if you would not be insulting, among others, those affected by Vallecas, whom I do not think it is very graceful for you to mix them with either the banks or the big exploitative companies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u13	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Martín González has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u14	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Today the PDECAT presents us with a proposal for a law that aims to speed up evictions in the case of families who are occupying a home. It would be that both individuals and social entities and public administrations could immediately dispose of anyone who is illegally occupying any of their properties. To justify this measure, we are told in their statement of reasons for the phenomenon of organized groups that are dedicated to detecting empty floors and fraudulently renting them. Indeed, this phenomenon exists and many cities face it. There are people who live on empty floors, who are mostly financial entities; there are mafias who take advantage of those people in vulnerable situations - people who, of course, cannot afford a mortgage or pay a rental at market price or can live in a public rental apartment because there is simply no public park that can take on the demand that exists -, people who do not dare to report the mafia who has rented the apartment and who are afraid to stay on the street again. And there are also neighbors and neighbors, in some cases of popular neighborhoods, of punished neighborhoods, who live in situations of tension and insecurity generated around some occupations and who, in fact, need solutions, but the truth and the grave thing is that their bill does not contain a single measure against those mafias, nor one. [[Applauds]] There's not a single point in the articulated part that talks about mafias. Instead, speaking of mafia and crime, you take advantage of it to stigmatize and criminalize all the people who today are occupying this kind of property. What they propose, in short, is that when any of these potential owners file an eviction claim in the courthouse and transfer this claim to the occupying persons, they can be disposed of at the moment. All this without any other condition, without any distinction. It doesn't matter if the property has one, four or ten dwellings; if they are empty or occupied; it doesn't matter if the dwelling you want to recover is going to be used for a family member, to rent or to set up a tourist flat. Nor are the circumstances of the persons they occupy, whether there are minors or dependants; whether they have income or not; whether they have been victims of a mafia or not; whether they are committing criminal activities or not; whether there are situations of conflict with neighbours or not. In no case will the occupying persons be able to plead any circumstances before the judge before the eviction takes place. Nor does the proposal provide for any guarantee of reallocation for the occupying families. His proposal, therefore, does not distinguish between vulnerable families, mafias or criminal occupations, between large or small owners; it puts everyone in the same sack and does not give an effective answer. They don't talk about chasing mobs; they don't talk about pushing mediation teams with resources to act in sensitive situations and help resolve conflicts in neighbouring communities. Where do you think many of those people are going to go once they're cleared? Well, let's get back to it. Or do you think people are gonna stay on the street? [[Applauds]] The mobs are going to stay there, the mobs are going to keep taking advantage of even more desperate people. The troubles will continue and the neighbors and neighbors will continue to suffer. The city halls today are completely overflowing. Do you think that without giving them more resources, more powers and new legislative tools they will be able to give an immediate answer with guarantees? And enough to say that this measure is to prevent people leaving the weekend from finding the house occupied on the way back, because those cases are the minimum ones and cannot be the main argument to justify such a drastic and aggressive legal change. [[Applauds]] What is happening, what you do not seem to want to understand, is that as long as the right to housing is not guaranteed effectively, that is, until the causes of this violation are attacked, there will be the breeding ground for these situations to continue to occur. Today we have more than half a million evictions since 2008; Spain is the most empty country in Europe that accumulates, of banks and real estate, yes, but also of small owners and owners who have no guarantees to put their apartment for rent despite the hypermegaexpress evictions that, with their support, have been approved in this House in the past. [[Applauds]] Our public housing park, which is not even mostly for rent, does not reach 1.5% when in Europe it is around 30%, and in many large cities we have rental prices that are totally abusive to a large part of the population. Unfortunately, however, it must be said that his party, the Democratic Party, formerly Convergence and Union, has for many years contributed, both from this House and from the Generalitat, to promoting numerous public policies that have led us to the current situation. I do not know if you will remember how in 2011, shortly after your arrival in the Government of the Generalitat, with Arthur Mas at the head, passed several omnibus laws with which you made changes of all kinds in the legislation in force until then. One such change was to eliminate the expropriation and use of empty dwellings that were not fulfilling their social function. That is, you liquidated a legal tool that was never suspended by the Constitutional Court and that, if it had not been for your party, today would be in force and would serve to get part of that public housing park that we so much need. [[Applauds]] And another gift that they left us their omnibus laws in Catalonia was to eliminate several legal requirements for creating tourist homes. This caused the licenses granted for tourist flats to be fired and, as a result, the rental housing park moved to the tourist flats, so that today in some areas of Barcelona there are more legal tourist beds than censused inhabitants and the unorbited prices of those flats, which are four times more profitable than residential rent, is precisely one of the several factors that cause the phenomenon of abusive rents that today is expelling hundreds of neighbors and neighbors from their neighborhoods. And that's what you've been doing since the Generalitat, but it's that several years before, from this very House, you weren't with your arms crossed either. Do you remember the statements of the Minister of Housing, Carme Chacón, when in 2009 he justified the approval of the express eviction talking about slow systematic and professional rental? [[Applauds]] In those days, Jordi Jané, then a Member of this House for Convergence and Unity, and today a conseiller d'Interior de la Generalitat, not only voted in favour of the express eviction, but in his statements in the media claimed that this initiative was actually his party's. Indeed, in April 2008, a year before Carme Chacón approved the express eviction, his party, Convergence i Unió, recorded a bill in this House that went in that direction. I believe that there is no doubt that the express eviction has not been used to mobilize the flats of small owners towards the rental market, nor has it been used to put an end to the late professionals. The express eviction stigmatized those who had difficulty paying rent and meant a brutal cut in rights for all of them. Perhaps many of these people are occupying today and perhaps some are even victims of the mafia. Don't you realize you're making the same mistake again? [[Applauds]] If you really care about the problem of occupations, be able to deal with it in a complex way, seek consensus with us and not with the PP and Citizens, and help us to guarantee, in truth, the right to housing. Support or bring in initiatives that promote a public rental park, starting with forcing large homeowners - legal persons but also natural persons - to hand over their flats to the public administrations that claim it. They demand, like us - from here, but also from the Generalitat - that the next state housing plan, which is currently being drawn up, include aid to ensure that small owners and owners have guaranteed bail, for unpaid fees, for the maintenance of the apartment; in short, to be able to put their apartment for rent with peace and security, which is what they want. Work from this House to achieve a state legislative change that will allow municipalities to limit the price of abusive rents and, in Catalonia, to reorient their security policies, those that Mr Jordi Jané is dealing with today, and proactively pursue organized mafias who do business with the misery of the people. Activate and strengthen community mediation teams to act in conflict situations affecting neighbours; coordinate their work with that of the Mossos so that criminal situations can be addressed. In short, that the first proposed housing law that the Democratic Party brings to this House during this parliamentary term is to remove immediately and without any condition or guarantee to the people they are occupying, says a lot about their political priorities. [[Applauds]] Of course, my parliamentary group, the Confederal Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, is going to vote against a proposal that is neither fair nor resolves the issue of occupations nor points to the mafias but to their victims, nor gives effective answers to the problems and discomforts suffered by the neighbours and, much less, addresses the violation of the right to housing suffered by a large part of the population of this country and which is at the root of the problem. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u15	Thank you very much. Mrs Romingera Salazar has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. When we begin to read this proposal that PDECAT defends for its consideration we are glad, because from its explanatory statement it seemed to be clear that they brought us the formula to end the undesirable scourge of real estate mafias, but unfortunately it is enough to go into the text to check that what they refer to in the explanatory statement, the need to end organized mafias, has nothing to do with the situation that they really intend to regulate in their reform proposal, surely because the mechanisms to end these mafias already have them and what is missing is to apply them, but we will talk about this later. If we focus on the reform proposal that they want to be taken into consideration, I will tell you that far from offering a solution, what it does is making the problem worse. Illegal occupations and extortion are a problem that affects both homeowners and families, the most vulnerable people who cannot afford to pay for their homes because of their causes, and are still waiting for the administrations to offer them solutions to avoid being evicted. With this proposal, the only thing that would succeed would be to speed up the evictions even more and the socialists are against it - I also remember Mrs Lucia, spokesman for Podemos -. If that is what they really want, my group cannot support this consideration. We agree that the real estate mafias, which in an organized way enter empty houses, change the locks, extort the owner and rent them, are in turn realigned. Of course, we won't consent to that. It is unacceptable that the right to property may be violated by a extortioner who is also abusing the vulnerability situation of those who demand a space to live. This takes advantage of these mafias and illegal occupations, which go beyond those who really have the right given to them by the administrations, given their legally recognized vulnerability. These persons have the right to be provided with housing or to avoid eviction. Both the owners and the vulnerable families at risk of being evicted require protection, but that is not exactly what you offer them with this proposal of law that they bring for their consideration, since the procedural reforms that they propose have as a measure to expel the occupant, but not the extortioner, without taking into account, ladies and gentlemen, that these activities that the extortioners and the mafias carry out - I insist, to force doors, to engage supplies, to change locks, to extort, to rent and to subbalky - are illegal perfectly defined in our Criminal Code, being this, the criminal way, which must be passed when we are talking about solving cases in which there is really extortion, and not the one that you choose. The Government has the instruments: it has the police, which must investigate and put an end to these mafias, and I insist on our Criminal Code. So it would only be enough to stop looking elsewhere, and I also say this to you, gentlemen of the People's Group, because your party is in the government. Make use of the mechanisms available to the Executive and stop addressing the problem. Ladies and gentlemen of the PDECAT, let us see if the Socialists, all of us, are concerned about this fact that we have registered an initiative in which we precisely urge the Government to draw up a special security plan against the mafias who traffic on empty floors, encouraging agreements with local corporations to incorporate the local police into the surveillance work in the field of their competences and in cooperation with the Civil Guard and the National Police. Because not only from the central government, but also from the local governments, with the skills and means to do so, these organized mafias can and must be eliminated. Of course we are against the mafias, of course, these and any kind of mafia, those of 3%, those of 4%. We are against all of them and ask for strength and real will to put an end to them. So you, ladies and gentlemen of the PDECAT, who also govern in Catalonia and who have the means to do so, put an end to these real estate mafias, give orders to the Mossos d'Esquadra to investigate these extortionists and, by invoking criminal law, put an end to these actions; speed up the proceedings. They should have done so for a long time; the rest is, as they say in Castile, dizzying the partridge. The procedural reforms they propose are intended, I insist, to expel the occupier and not the extortioner, the ultimate aim being to speed up evictions even more, and they know for a fact that those who are really going to be affected by these measures that they propose will be the most vulnerable families, who cannot cope, due to causes, with the payment of the rent of their housing. We can't accept this. That is why we are voting against it. Moreover, this proposal is procedurally strange. For example, allowing this procedure only to natural and non-legal persons has some problem, because what then to do with a particular renter who had forty floors dedicated to speculation? They don't tell us. It should be decided whether any owner who has been dispossessed without consent is allowed to go to this procedure or whether it is limited only to owners who do not dedicate their property in question to a professional activity. And, on the other hand, the reform they propose of section 441.2 is in fact an unheard-of interim measure, which would create many technical problems; in fact, they refer the procedure of opposition to the opposition of precautionary measures of the Civil Prosecution Act. Nor does it solve the problem of passive legitimation; it is not easy to identify the occupants of an occupied floor. Nor does it solve the assumption of flats that are rented by rooms, since the demand must be directed to the occupants of each room. So, can it be executed with respect to everyone or do you have to run room by room? This is the problem of the so-called patera floors. The doubt is whether a lawsuit against the ignored occupants of a home would be allowed to be brought and executed in the same indefinition. Another example of procedural strangeness is the reform they propose of article 447.3, which makes no sense, because 447.2 already states that the sentence of eviction has no effect of judgment. And, on the other hand, allowing the eviction procedure for the public administration to execute the floors of its rental park is also strange, because it is too much; the administrations already have other ways to execute their actions, what can happen is that they are even slower. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal does not make much sense or much judgment. Issues relating to the protection of housing ownership would require further reform in order to address the problems in greater depth. This reform that you bring to your consideration presents procedural loopholes and, above all, would not fulfill the end for which you yourselves say you are presenting it, as it is only aimed at expelling the occupant but not the extortioner. To put an end to extortionists, organized mafias, our system already has mechanisms: the Criminal Code, the Executive and the Police, so make them work. Only in this way will they protect the homeowners and the most vulnerable families, only in this way will we reconcile the right to property with the right to housing, and so, ladies and gentlemen of the PDECAT, neither José Manuel nor any other vulnerable family will continue to be the victim of the mafias. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u17	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Zurita Exposito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u18	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon, everyone. We are talking about illegal occupation of housing; occupation which for some is a problem, for the majority, and for a minority is a solution, because they consider that the solution to not having housing is to occupy that of others and understand it as the exercise of a right and, in the worst case scenario, as a system from which profit is expected, as a business. But what is clear is that we must move within the framework of two fundamental constitutional rights: on the one hand, the right to housing and, on the other, the right to property. Both have to be fulfilled, helped, complemented and lived together, and under no circumstances is usurpation of property justified. The phenomenon of illegal occupation has been aggravated by the economic crisis with absolutely chilling data and situations that affect not only the owner of the property but also the citizen environment. In Madrid there are 1,400 occupied dwellings and 86% in the capital; the Office for the Monitoring of Occupyed Housing, launched by the Delegation of the Government of Madrid, has received 3,000 complaints of occupations, and groups of organized mafias have been detected that commercialize with the misfortune of others not having housing. In Barcelona, the illegal occupation of real estate has increased by more than 60% in the last half of 2016 and, worst of all, consented to by the city council. Despite complaints from neighbouring neighbours, the municipalities of change protect these illegal practices, which are complemented and surrounded by other illegalities, such as puncture of the water, light and services that another person is paying and, in addition, responding to organized occupations. But the scariest thing is that these absolutely illegal acts are protected by these municipalities. Instead of using the tools of an effective housing policy, they foster an impossible and unviable relationship, because when there is an illegal occupation there is a criminal act and there is a victim who is deprived of a right, also contained in the Constitution, which is the right to property. Ladies and gentlemen, here are two ways of acting. One, carried out by the People's Party, working since the beginning of the last legislature to guarantee the right to housing, especially to vulnerable sectors and within a constitutional framework; attacking the problem from its base, that everyone can have housing, that no one loses their housing due to circumstances, protecting the right to housing of vulnerable sectors. And while some leftist political forces now call themselves protectors of families at risk of losing their homes, of being evicted, I just want to remind you that it was the People's Party Government that, aware of this dramatic reality caused by the economic crisis, has taken all possible measures to protect vulnerable families. Thus, before its first 100 days of office, the Government adopted Royal Decree 6/2012 on urgent measures for the protection of unresourced mortgage debtors, by the way, with the vote against the Socialist Party, which facilitated the restructuring of the mortgage debt and whose main effect was the immediate suspension, and for a period of two years, of evictions from families at risk of exclusion. Subsequently, Royal Decree-Law 27/2012 of measures to strengthen the protection of these mortgage debtors was adopted, in addition to suspending the launches for a much wider group; all this also with the vote against the Socialist Party. This last royal decree came from Law 1/2013, of measures to strengthen the protection of mortgage debtors, debt restructuring and social rent; also with the vote against the Socialist Party. In January 2013, the agreement for the establishment of the Social Fund for Rent Housing was signed; an agreement involving three ministries: the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, in addition to the Bank of Spain, the Fecam and the third sector platform that includes the main NGOs in this country, and more than 10,000 housing units were made available. At present, more than 4,000 families have benefited from this social rental. The policies implemented by the People's Party have benefited more than 45,000 families. The evictions were a problem that we are already faced with, since 60% of the mortgage executions had already occurred in the previous legislature, they originated between 2005 and 2008, and the mortgage executions in 2016 fell by 29% compared to 2015, the lowest figure since 2008. Even so, we are aware that they must be completely eliminated. With this I just want to say that this has been the action of the People's Party with regard to guaranteeing the right to housing, and we are absolutely aware of the need to chart the way for emergency action in the face of situations. Hence, one of the objectives of the future housing plan 2018-2021 is to incorporate a specific programme to address particularly vulnerable groups and seek solutions, always within the framework of our constitutional rights, to the occupation of empty housing. This measure, through the housing plan itself and the necessary legal resources, will focus its efforts on the empowerment of reconciliation mechanisms, so that empty, unoccupied and available housing, whether owned by public administrations, public enterprises, financial institutions or other housing holders, can be occupied by more vulnerable sectors of the population. We have talked about this in the Committee on Development and, on the proposal of the People's Party, we have agreed to work together with all the political groups - with the abstention of Podemos, that is to say - to develop the measures of the future housing plan. We in the People's Party are working in a positive way, and this is a way of acting, attacking the basis of the problem that concerns us, that is the right to housing, that everyone has a home and that they do not want to take care of someone else's. And then there is the other way of acting, that of the parties of the left, of the so-called parties of change, who work the right to housing encouraging the deprivation of the right to property. Or that of others, who do not solve and leave the problems to which they come later, such as the Socialist Party, in whose legislature the evictions were fired, between 2008 and 2009, period in which the express eviction was promoted through a bill, in which, like what is brought to this House today, it was resolved to leave a family on the street with a verbal trial in five days. And what do the municipalities of change do in the face of occupationism? To adopt tractor measures of the phenomenon, to enhance the illegal occupation of real estate by action or omission. Ladies and gentlemen, we share the slogan of 'no more homes without people and no more people without people', of course, and we could repeat it to the point of satiety, but we also want to work to the point of satiety to put real measures on the table and that can be carried out within a constitutional, integral and cross-cutting framework. Ladies and gentlemen, we, the People's Parliamentary Group, are going to support the consideration of this bill. We agree in substance but not in form, because we want to go much further; not to make specific changes but to continue working in an integral way. We understand that the problem of illegal occupation has three legs: protection of the right to housing of vulnerable families, widely worked by the People's Party; police action against organized mafias of occupationism, also launched already by the delegations of the People's Party Government; and protection of the right to property. We understand that the problem is not just to resolve a judicial procedure, but not to cover under any circumstances the illegal occupation of a dwelling. Ensuring the right to housing is the priority of the People's Party, but always safeguarding another fundamental right of our Constitution, which is the right to property. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u19	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u20	It is appropriate to discuss below the consideration of the proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies for the regulation of interest groups. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Bonilla Dominguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The improvement of democratic quality has been one of the priority objectives in the policy of the People's Party Government and has been demonstrated by legislation in all areas where the current regulation could be improved. We are the ones who have taken the most steps and reforms in democratic regeneration in the last 40 years, which involve greater transparency in public life and greater demands for those in public office. For this parliamentary group democratic regeneration does not consist in denouncing, in inculcating the entire political class; it is not because our commitment and attitude is with the citizens, our attitude is to create in positive, and that is why we have promoted initiatives trying to go to the bottom of the issue, initiatives that talk about institutional reforms and improvement in democratic quality, but, I repeat, always building in positive. Our commitment to reforms in this regard has been and will be permanent and constant. Since the beginning of the 10th Legislature, we have been working to articulate a large number of measures aimed at improving democratic quality. A prominent example of this is Law 19/2013, on transparency, access to public information and good governance, which is the first law on transparency in our history, ladies and gentlemen, after ten democratic legislatures and which has been driven by the Government of the People's Party. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u22	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u23	It is a law that has brought about a real change of perspective, since, on the one hand, it has promoted an active right of information on the part of the public administration through the transparency portal, in which thousands of relevant data related to the public sector have been turned, from high-ranking salaries, tenders, internal organization of various ministries, agencies and other public bodies; and, on the other hand, this right of information has been reinforced by the promotion and promotion of the principle of advertising, which has been reinforced through the efforts made in the implementation of e-government. Transparency, must not be forgotten, is the quality that best determines the democratic quality of a political system, and Spain, through the progressive implementation of the precepts and commitments explained in this law, has undoubtedly been put at the head of Western democracies in terms of transparency. Transparency is, moreover, a basic budget in the fight against corruption, since insofar as citizens are more informed and more accessible to them to know relevant data from the public sector and its holders, they will be better able to exercise that legitimate and indispensable passive guardianship work which is also basic in a democratic system. Another important example of the Government's relevance to these issues is Law 3/2015 of 30 March, which regulates the exercise of the high office of the General Administration of the State, also promoted by the Government of the People's Party. This new rule contains a more demanding regulation of the requirements that must be met by those who hold office in the General Administration of the State, as well as the regulation of conflicts of interest between members of the Government and senior officials of the General Administration of the State. With regard to the subject before us, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the interaction of the public authorities with companies, associations, NGOs, commercial organizations, professionals, trade unions, think tanks, etc., is legitimate and absolutely necessary for the quality of democracy because they provide perspectives, views, opinions and criteria that would otherwise be difficult or impossible to perceive and know by the legislator. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that we are here for and for the citizens, and that is why we must articulate as many channels as possible to ensure that there is this fluid, direct and permanent communication that allows us to make the most appropriate decisions for society as a whole, but at the same time they will share with me that the Spaniards have the right to expect this process to be transparent and to take place within strict compliance with the law, as well as on the basis of ethical, clear and respectable principles. Therefore, in order to increase the transparency and ethics of our parliamentarianism, the People's Party proposes a regulation of interest groups in order to improve the legislative process, making it more transparent, starting, I repeat and insist, from the premise that the action of interest groups is legitimate and constitutes a mechanism for the action of civil society and its participation in shaping public policies and legislation, thus contributing to a better quality of our laws and to a better quality of our democracy. It is a further step in transparency in the decision-making process. This is not new and we have a background that everyone will remember very well. In particular with regard to this proposal, during the Congress of Deputies, during the 10th Legislature, there were several moments when we already put on the table the importance of this initiative. The 2013 State of the Nation debate adopted a compromise amendment to the motions for resolutions tabled by several parliamentary groups - the Catalan Group, the People's Group, the UPyD Group and the Joint Group - in which the Congress of Deputies pledged to take as many measures of democratic regeneration, institutional strengthening and the fight against corruption as necessary to increase citizens' confidence in the institutions. In particular with regard to the parliamentary sphere, point 4(b).1 agreed to study in the relevant parliamentary committees the following aspects: appropriate measures to be taken to regulate organizations of interest or lobbies with measures to clarify what their activities can be and what their limits should be. On 27 February 2014, again in the Congress of Deputies, in the post-discussion session on the state of the nation, a new resolution on democratic regeneration and transparency was adopted, also with only two votes against. Paragraph 5 of the resolution stated that the Congress of Deputies considered it necessary to promote, in the context of the reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, greater immediacy, proximity and effectiveness of parliamentary control and to contemplate the regulation of so-called lobbies. With regard to these mandates and such reform, during the 10th Legislature a parliamentary presentation was held within the Congress of Deputies, which tried to agree on a consensus framework to address these and other issues of this nature. In it, the People's Parliamentary Group, in order to increase transparency and ethics in our Parliament, has repeatedly demonstrated the desirability of regulating interest groups in the Rules of Procedure of our Congress of Deputies so that the rule of governance and functioning of the House of Commons can be provided with the relevant management and regulation of the functioning of these groups. On 25 March 2015, the Socialist Parliamentary Group decided to break the negotiations within this area. I trust that today we are the vast majority in agreement with this reform. The regulation of this reality is a commitment in our government programme. Our programme states that we will regulate the activities of lobbies and set up a register of interest groups to identify all natural or legal persons who carry out such activities. There is also commitment to the agreements with the groups. In the agreement signed with Citizens, specifically in the third bloc, on transparency, democratic regeneration and the fight against corruption, there are two measures, 111 and 114. 111 is to assume the objective of placing Spain at the forefront of the policies and demands of an open government, more transparent in its management, more accessible in the response to citizens' demands and more responsive to their needs. In measure 114, which greatly complements today's proposal, we are talking about adopting a bill on the performance of interest groups in the Spanish administration, which, among other things, includes the creation of a public register of lobbies in which all persons and organizations who are professionally engaged in influencing public positions or representatives with regard to the development and implementation of public policies will have an obligation to register. Furthermore, we have the Greek report, in which it is recommended, in its second recommendation, expressly to introduce rules on how Members of Parliament deal with lobbyists and other third parties trying to influence the legislative process. Greece expressly urges the authorities to take concrete measures in this regard, since this issue is prominent on the list of public concerns and concludes its second recommendation that the said measure has not been implemented. If we look at the international level, we see that in the United States it is an issue that is absolutely regulated. There are more than 15,000 interest groups registered and there are almost half a hundred Spanish companies. In Europe, the European Union created the transparency register, where such organisations can register voluntarily and the goal is always the same, ensuring transparency for citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, this is not new, there is a clear parliamentary record in our party, in agreements with other parliamentary groups, and this measure is also a clear commitment from the President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy. In his investiture debate of August 30, 2016, he speaks of greater demand and exemplaryness in public life and tells us that he forces us to fight for democratic regeneration. In addition, in this appearance the president proposed a regulation of interest groups to safeguard the defence of the public interest. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we start from a commitment by the Government of the People's Party and this People's Parliamentary Group to increase transparency and ethics in our parliamentarianism. We propose a regulation of interest groups in order to improve the legislative process by making it more transparent and on the assumption that the actions of these groups are absolutely legitimate and constitute a mechanism for the creation of civil society and for its participation in the shaping of public policies and legislation, contributing - I repeat - to greater quality of laws and greater democratic quality. The purpose of this amendment is to regulate the legal status in which interest groups have to move to give legal certainty through the establishment of an inclusive definition of what we are talking about, which individuals or entities should be registered. Obviously, it is clear that all those representatives of interest groups who wish to hold meetings with Members and staff attached to their parliamentary work are in order to transfer their interests and proposals. And when do we talk about an interest group? We talk about an interest group when we talk about natural or legal persons who carry out organized actions to influence the legislative power in defense of the interests of the citizens they represent. Therefore, a public and compulsory register is created to, I repeat, ensure transparency, and in addition those entities or organizations or persons who register must be given a code of conduct with full publicity and transparency. Finally, a body is set up to oversee this register, which is entrusted to the Presidency of the House with the support of the General Secretariat. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that we are all in the process of democratic regeneration. We've come a long way, but we've got a lot to go. This proposal that we are presenting to you today obviously has a whole process ahead in which we are all going to have the opportunity to debate, contribute and I am sure that we will build together, but today I honestly and humbly ask you to support this consideration so that we can lay the foundations for something so important, a step forward, with the common goal of being more and more open to society, ever closer to society, but also increasingly in a more transparent, democratic and just way. Our citizens deserve it and of course I ask you here for your support in continuing to work together for this great country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u24	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. This initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group for the regulation of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Interest Groups responds to a peremptory need that has long been outlined but that only became apparent in the failed XI Legislature with the unanimous approval of a reform proposal that had been proposed by the then Catalan Parliamentary Group. That was at the end of April but that procedure could not be continued because a month later the king signed the dissolution of the Courts, after the constitutional deadline had been completed without investing in the President of the Government. In view of the more than foreseeable dissolution of the Chambers, it was already warned in that debate that the creation and regulation of a register of interest groups was another subject that was to remain pending in the Lower Chamber. Hence the value of this initiative to advance, deepen and improve the results of parliamentary transparency, to take one more step, one more step forward - as Mrs Bonilla has just pointed out -; a matter where transparency and good governance that determines the law and that came into force at the end of 2014 addresses very partially, almost residual. Today, the arguments put forward by Forum in favour of the interest group proposal remain valid. In Spain, there is a great deal of work to be done and a timely initiative is needed to combat the opacities, to eliminate the remnants of complicity that may exist, and also to make this seat of national sovereignty an example for the other democratic institutions and a vanguard to achieve the standards of parliamentary and legislative transparency; on the other hand, the vast majority of the countries in our environment and the European representative institutions, to which thousands of organisations with these lobbies are recognized and registered, take advantage. In fact, the detailed evaluation carried out by the Spanish chapter on international transparency gives Spain a suspense and places our country at the worst stage as safeguards against the influence of life and the rules that promote an ethical lobby in European political systems. I conclude, Madam President, by pointing out that I will vote in favour of this initiative, trusting that, like last year in the face of a similar reform proposal, it will be supported by a very large majority because citizens demand that the decision-making process of the institutions representing them should be as transparent as possible in order to try to ensure action that inspires confidence in the drafting of legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u26	Thank you very much. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador Armendáriz also has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. I would like to announce that the Navarro People's Union will also vote in favour of taking into consideration the amendment to the regulation to include this register of interests, as it could not otherwise be. The proposer has already said this, in 2013, in that compromise amendment in the motions for resolutions of the debate on the state of the Nation was, among other things, that of the Navarro People's Union. We have always believed that it was something we should do, other parliaments do it normally, even from a selfish point of view. Many times people see this Chamber empty, but the truth is that many of the Members who are not here are often meeting with people. It is part of our work, it is our obligation to listen to citizens, to collectives because the laws we pass affect them. It is our duty to listen to them, to care for them, to receive them, to know how it affects their interests. Therefore, it seems to us something almost bound. On the other hand, the transparency and publicity that these meetings can have, in the end, selfishly, is good for us because we will prove that we are working; even, it will avoid any kind of temptation to explain the positions of one or the other. That is why we will support him. You've introduced him, he's already introduced himself in the past. I hope, as you have rightly said, that the improvements that other groups can propose can be incorporated into the process and so, in the end, this is a measure that we all understand to be good. In essence, that transparency and publicity and that emphasis on the work that is being done here must be given to us. This was an urgent matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u28	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President. They will forgive me but this sudden conversion of the People's Party to the transparent faith gives me a certain scepticism and a certain distrust. In addition, it contrasts with your daily performance. We have seen it in recent months, erased from hard drives, attempted to delay or hinder the Popular Party's funding commission of inquiry and the famous words of the current secretary general of the PP and current minister to justify the performance of that treasurer of the People's Party. This contrasts with facts that we have all seen, for example, the report on international transparency. We have seen the action of this Government accepting the pressures of the lobbies in the Law on Reform of the Electrical System, in the Royal Decree of self-consumption or recently with the closure of the Garoña nuclear power plant. However, we will vote in favour of taking into account, of course, not the proposal, which is late and compulsory. It is an insufficient, poor, light, decaffeinated proposition and all the adjectives that you can continue to add. We believe that it is late because it could have been done in 2013, when we approached the Transparency Act - by the way, Compromís introduced amendments to that law to regulate the subject of lobbies -. It contrasts with the speed with which our Government, the Government of the Botanical Region, in less than two years, has made a proposal in this regard. It is bound by the fact that the Government has failed to comply satisfactorily with not one of the eleven recommendations made by the Greek in July 2014 and now addressed in the 2016 report. And all the other adjectives because they're short. As long as the agendas of the senior officials, including the Government, are not made public; as long as there is no information resulting from the activity of the lobbies, as long as there is no information about the meetings with documents of the topics dealt with and the conclusions reached, as long as there is no legislative record of the changes, motives or impulses that a law has received, as well as the money that those lobbies devote to doing their activities, all this will be, as we say, botja smoke, that is, smoke. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u30	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u31	Thank you, Madam President. It was said in one of the previous speeches that this is not a new debate; we have been calling for the regulation of lobbies for some time and Mr Martínez Oblanca has recalled that in April last year, in that short parliamentary term, the House has already taken into consideration a proposal for a law in terms similar to what is being proposed today. Of course, in line with the position we have historically maintained, our group is going to vote in favour of this initiative, that is, convinced of two things. Firstly, we are opening a debate on the reform of the Congressional Rules of Procedure, which is the chronicle of a failure because for many years we have been unable to reform the Rules of Procedure and the consideration of this initiative should allow us to open the debate not only on the regulation of the lobby in the House, but also on the modernization of the Congressional Rules themselves. Secondly, this is a debate - perhaps very technical but important - on the accessibility of the information of this House through its website; moreover, - and I invite the Bureau to reflect here - we are far from the best standards on web pages to allow access to information to all citizens. The substantive debate, the debate before us on the regulation of the lobby, is a debate on the recognition of political pluralism, the recognition of the influence that groups from outside exert on this House, which is inevitable in democracy, the need to restore citizens' confidence in these mechanisms of participation in order to strengthen confidence in the political system itself. It is a very important debate that we must take very seriously and in which the lobbying effort in the area of transparency cannot be frustrated. In this sense, surely in the text that Mrs Bonilla has defended today or in the text that I defended, substantial improvements must be made. We recorded this same initiative in September last year, introducing some improvements; for example, regulating the legislative footprint, which seems to us to be essential; or requiring more transparency from interest groups about its operation. We will have to do a good job and the Members of the Democratic Party will be on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u32	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u33	Thank you very much, President. A reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress for the regulation of interest groups is being debated today in its interaction with this House and in order - it is said - to increase the transparency of the legislative process. Regulation through a compulsory public register of lobbyists will record their meetings and will also record the documentation provided, as well as a set of rules of conduct for lobbyists and a sanctioning regime. We must point out that individuals and groups have always tried and tried to influence the public decisions that affect them; it is something consistent with public life in all times of history. Lobbyism, in particular, is an expression of a threefold factor of our day: the process of industrialization, the recognition of the right to free association and the affection of economic activity through legislative and regulatory parliament. This expression acquires great relevance today, coming to say by Professor Villoria that corruption in developed countries would be that of the markets of influence, so - he continues to point out - all phases of the elaboration of a public policy entail risks of bad practices related to the lobby, and points out eight examples: one, financing political parties to obtain beneficial regulations once the funded parties accede to the Government; two, revolving doors; three, regulatory and technical capture, for example through the control of expert groups, the financing of biased research or the financing of professional congresses and meetings in exchange for diffuse support to the interests of the financiers; four, adoption of rules that voluntarily generate loopholes to avoid real controls; five, adoption of rules that weaken restrictions until they turn certain laws into a true example of mere facades; six, weakening of controls and enforcement of laws; seven, hindering the application of sanctions through pressure on decision-makers; and, eight, fraudulent drafting in order to secure a binding contract. Today, all these practices take particular interest in the subject of lobbying because, as the Council of Europe points out in 2013, in the report on lobbying and democracy, what is really worrying is that the disinterest felt by citizens about participation in public life coincides with the increase in the participation of different interest or pressure groups, and while lobbying can be beneficial for democracy - he continues - because it can contribute to pluralism and can provide certain expertise, it can also place serious risks to democracy, it can lead to an excessively partial view of a problem because specialized knowledge is not identical to democracy, and many policies need to be developed not only from a specific and specialized perspective but also from a general perspective. The report also mentions the rotating doors in both directions as a result of lobbyism, although it concludes that lobbies exist and that the best way to avoid the harmful effects of their activity is by regulating them without sufficient self-regulation. Regulation which must be based mainly on the requirement of transparency of lobbying and of the regulator in the sense that the general and concrete information of their activity must be accessible to the public, above all - and this is the important thing - to those who may be affected by the corresponding regulation on which the lobbies have acted. For the Council of Europe, regulation of lobbies that fosters transparency can increase citizens' interest in the functioning of the political system and therefore their participation. In addition to the Council of Europe's recommendation that it should be regulated in order to avoid the harmful effects of opaque lobbyism, Spain's criticism of the European Commission last February should be added to the fact that there is no regulation on lobbying and that it does not know who is lobbying, how much money they handle and what results they achieve. It seems, therefore, that the time has come for a regulation in Spain, and it is true that this is not a new debate. The constitutional debates have already taken place. Around the right of initiative, an amendment incorporating a paragraph 4 was tabled which stated that an organic law would establish control and registration for interest groups acting on a permanent basis. However, the Constitution does not include the participation of groups in political activity in a clear manner, since political participation is established almost exclusively for citizens in their manifestations, in their forms of participatory democracy and representative democracy, with the exception of article 105, which is for the elaboration of administrative provisions, not legislative precepts. The issue has been dealt with at parliamentary level - it has already been mentioned by various speakers - since 1992, passing through Law 19/2013 - which, by the way, was a missed opportunity for not having accepted amendments calling for a law regulating interest groups and a register of interests - and also, as we have been told, in proposals not of law of the last legislature. The Council of State, in 2008, in its report on Spain's integration into the European Union, has already pointed to the desirability of regulating lobbies at national level as an instrument facilitating their access at Community level. At the judicial level, they are normally contemplated by the First Chamber of the Supreme Court, by establishing that the contact of the lobby is not an unlawful contact and also by the Second Chamber of the Criminal Court by distinguishing the act of influence from the act of control and addiction. Certainly, within the Spanish state in a few places is regulated, with Catalonia being an exception, I think I understand that the City of Madrid and the National Commission of the Market and Competition. It seems the time has come to regulate it, although it is not a panacea. In our view, the proposal under consideration has a number of drawbacks and shortcomings. As a collateral issue, we malice that this proposal seeks a blocking effect on another initiative we discussed last week in this House also to amend the Rules, in order to control the Government's compliance with non-regulatory products. More specifically, with regard to the initiative we are dealing with, we note a number of shortcomings that we consider important. The first is that the markets of influence are not concentrated on the legislative branch of political power, but mainly on the executive branch, including the entire public sector, being this much more attractive to their interests than the legislative branch. The second deficiency we see is that there is no code of conduct for parliamentarians and support staff regarding their relationship with lobbying. The third deficiency we see is that lobbies on their own or others, that is to say the internal and the external lobby, do not say in every performance on whose behalf they act, how much money they have dedicated to management and what results they have achieved. As the Council of Europe points out, general but also concrete information is required about the lobbyist's activity, because what is wanted is who is pressing, who is pressing, what is pressing, how much is being spent on it and what results have been achieved. Finally, we also note a deficiency because only the documentation presented by the lobbyist is considered declarable, but it is not communicated orally. All these issues are not reflected in the initiative and, if there is no regulation or is deficient, it looks like a customer system of favors rather than honest leadership. In short, ladies and gentlemen, a text which presents great gaps in a matter in which there must be no doubt that no agreement compromises the independence and freedom to vote. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen; thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u34	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u35	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. From the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left we welcome that finally today the People's Group proposes to lead a reform of the Congressional Regulation on the regulation of interest groups, in favor of the development of Law 19/2013, transparency, access to public information and good governance. However, you have remained short and, in this regard, we believe that the adaptation of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies to the provisions of Law 19/2013, on transparency, access to public information and good governance, cannot be limited only to the regulation of interest groups; it is necessary to address a much more comprehensive, much broader reform, if there really is a will for transparency, as we are saying here. There are many more aspects that should be included in this reform if we really consider this, that there is a genuine will for transparency and reform of the rules of procedure of Congress. In fact, Esquerra Republicana, proposed at the time - even when we were in the Joint Group - fifty proposals for the reform of the Rules of Procedure. I will give you a brush stroke to see what we really should do in this Congress of Deputies and not simply limit ourselves to one point. For example, we are now putting forward the rights, duties and prerogatives of Members and parliamentary groups. We planned, for example, the elimination of the promise to abide by or swear in the Constitution; the elimination of official cars for the spokesmen of parliamentary groups, Commission presidents and members of the Bureau; on the subject of linguistic rights, we intended the right of Members to use orally or in writing any official language, the right of Members and parliamentary groups to submit all documentation in any official language; in parliamentary management and transparency we proposed the creation of a permanent parliamentary committee on compliance with the Rules, in particular the rights of Members and parliamentary groups, as well as the control of the House's budget, as well as other issues. On the issue of the parliamentary impact, we even proposed the abolition of GNP in plenary, discussing it only in the Commission to allow for the introduction of more proposals for legislation in plenary. At that time we were already proposing - we talked about years ago - a global reform and much more flexible and transparent than the Congressional Rules themselves would be. As Mr Campuzano has said, this debate opens up a real opportunity to put forward a good reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress and, in any case, we would not like it simply to be limited to that, if there is a clear will, as he said, for transparency. Adhering to the concrete proposal they have put forward on the regulation of interest groups, there are four points that would somehow cover this reform: regulating the legal status of interest groups, establishing an inclusive definition of the concept itself; a public register; a code of conduct; and, finally, a body responsible for monitoring the register entrusted to the Presidency of Congress with the support of the General Secretariat. There are four points, some of which are developed and which really pose a very concrete definition and others which are simply open and where I think we will have to work much more. In the case of Esquerra, I simply want to comment that in some autonomous communities, for example in Catalonia, a register on the subject of lobbies or interest groups has been created under the Law of Parliament 19/2014 and we have even gone further in creating the Justice Department itself a common register of interest groups for the entire public sector of Catalonia. In accordance with the 2014 Transparency Act, all local authorities must have a register of interest groups, with the will to facilitate the enforcement of the law, both of interest groups and of local authorities. The Department of Justice makes the current registration of the Generalitat a new one valid for all organizations obliged to have one. The registration of interest groups in Catalonia can be used by all local authorities who wish to do so. What we do, then, is to extend to the public administration a project that is really born of reform. In this way, the Government responds even to the concerns of the local world, which through the network of transparent Governments had demanded the existence of a common register to facilitate this obligation of law. Please note that the reform of a regulation makes it possible to extend transparency to other areas of public administration. With regard to point 4, concerning the body responsible for supervising the registry, which is entrusted to the Presidency of Congress with the support of the General Secretariat, we would not like the registry itself to be a source of control over which groups would join it or not and therefore not by technical but ideological criteria. What we want to ensure is that the registration of the different entities that are incorporated is really done on the basis of technical criteria; we will not avoid informal contacts with other lobbies, but what we do do is give a transparent regulatory framework and that all parliamentary work is in line with that framework, which is really what we are interested in. We will vote in favour of taking this reform into consideration, but we reserve the right to its approval or not depending on how it is being developed, how it is being worked on the different points. From there we are open to work and to incorporate new amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u36	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Group is bringing forward a proposal to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress in order to regulate the activities of interest groups, known by all as lobbies, and I would like to start by announcing that my group will vote in favour of taking this initiative into consideration. We are happy with this regenerating impulse of the People's Party, but we would really like it to expand. You bring here today the practical wording of paragraph 114 of the agreement you signed with us for President Rajoy's investiture, but first we would like you to start by fulfilling the six points before - the foreword - to that pact, six key points for regeneration, in which we are finding some other reticence. We would like that regenerating momentum to be extended to the fulfilment of all of those 150 measures, but above all to the six points before the pact itself. As you know, this Parliament has recently adopted a bill by my group to ensure the fight against corruption and the protection of whistleblowers. It was an ambitious, comprehensive law that sought rapid and effective treatment against corruption. We did so guided by the principles of transparency, accountability and control, and among the changes we introduced we proposed precisely the regulation of the activity of the lobbies through a public and compulsory register, as well as the creation of a code of conduct and a sanctioning regime, a regulation that we intended to extend to the General Administration of the State and that left out for its legislative and functional autonomy to the Legislative Chambers. To a large extent, this proposed law broadens that regulation that we were pushing for. Prior to this agreement, we had already included the obligation to regulate lobby activity in some autonomous arrangements for the constitution of governments that had emerged from the local and autonomous elections. One example is the Community of Madrid, where a law on transparency is being processed and, at the same time, a reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly which also includes the regulation of lobbies within the Madrid Community. We have always believed that the regulation of interest groups is a very important step towards regenerating our democratic system. A system in which too often laws and policies have been decided in the dark between political representatives and groups closest to power. That so-called capitalism of friends that we have long suffered has had much to do with those bad practices of those who confuse the legitimate defense of their interests with vantageism and regulatory capture. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced of the validity today of that maxim of the great American jurist of the Supreme Court of the United States of the last century, Louis Brandeis, according to which there is no better disinfectant than sunlight. The regulation of interest groups will therefore serve to standardise an activity that is already fully regulated in most of the countries in our environment, also in the supranational bodies of the European Union. We do not want to stigmatise an activity that allows civil society to participate in the legislative process and in the decision-making process of the administrative authorities. There is nothing suspicious about companies, trade unions, NGOs and ultimately citizens, anonymous or organized, being able to access their representatives in order to influence the policies being implemented. That is actually what most of Parliament's working time is, and you know it. It is perfectly legitimate, as long as it is with publicity and transparency, in the light of the sun. Regulating the activity of interest groups will not only recognize the status of normality of what is already fully normal, but will serve to ensure free competition in access to representatives and also, why not, to discourage those who are accustomed to resorting to matters with power in the shadows, exploiting unfair favours and neglecting ethics and honesty. In the legislative sphere, citizens have the right to know who their representatives meet and for what purpose. It is important that we know how we make up our opinion; it is not only important but a right, for us it is part of what we consider to be the fundamental right of access to public information. Better informed citizenship is a more critical and demanding citizenship, and this requires more transparency and accountability on the part of public representatives. On the road to the regeneration of our democracy, there is certainly a lot of work to be done, but it seems that we are in the right direction. The way in which the anti-corruption law we put forward here two weeks ago, which we hope will not get stuck in the legislative process, and this regulation that is being brought here today, is certainly a sign that something is changing in Spanish politics. Furthermore, we believe that it would be desirable to replicate this reform in the various autonomous parliaments, where most of the groups in this House are certainly represented, in order to improve that transparency in all the legislative bodies of the autonomous communities. Perhaps this could be the subject of a great pact. We also recognise - said Mr Campuzano and, in some way, Mr Eritja - that this opens up the melon of the reform of the Rules of Procedure of the House. We have made a number of contributions to modernising the functioning of this House. What we would not like is for that aspiration to a great reform of the Regulation as a whole to prevent the small or great progress that can be made in some timely, necessary and essential reforms, and on which we can reach an agreement, such as that of the lobbies; that the great aspirations, those great steps, do not prevent us from achieving the small steps that we have at hand. That would be an example for this regulatory reform, but also for other reforms that are pending. Ladies and gentlemen, only from a deep or interested naivety could it be argued that banning or stigmatizing professional lobbying activity or delineating it biasedly, as some do, serve to avoid regulatory captures. We should have learned already in Spain, a country where the lobby has traditionally been underdeveloped, when not stigmatized, that regulatory captures, collusions, all kinds of interested decisions and chanchullos, let's call it that, untransparent, unfortunately, have been and are on the agenda. All you have to do is go for any information. We therefore believe that the lack of regulation of interest groups, of lobbies, is one of the reasons for the proliferation of such absolutely undesirable conduct. We believe in a professional, regulated, absolutely visible exercise of the lobby, and this allows us to better identify who is trying to influence and also who is allowed to influence. At the same time, let it be a more transparent legislative process, that improves the traceability of laws and decisions, which some have already defined as the legislative footprint, in which we believe it is very important to move forward, it certainly facilitates the work of interest groups, but it facilitates something that we believe is essential, which is the ability to control the citizens of work and the performance of their representatives. Therefore, it seems to us that it is very necessary. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a law has shortcomings, which we will try to improve and implement in the legislative procedure with the corresponding amendments, but we share the objective and the need to regulate it and, of course, we share - I hope we share - not only with the People's Group, but with the whole House, the objective of achieving a more realistic policy, but also a much cleaner policy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u38	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs.Elizo Serrano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u39	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. The Group of the European People's Party proposes the regulation of lobbies with a short stick of what has not worked in Europe. Today, the Group of the European People's Party presents little less than a spur of the obsolete and ineffective Brussels lobbies register, which is in the process of being modified and expanded precisely because it has been considered sterile in practice. We will always be in favour of measures that combat corruption, that are in line to improve democratic control mechanisms and that put a stop to rotating doors, but not proposing a regulation of the hollow lobbies for nothing to change, to continue institutionalizing opaque practices. In our group, we believe that it is essential for a democratic system that institutions interact and discuss with the various social and economic actors initiatives that may affect them directly or indirectly. We believe in interaction as a legitimate and indispensable activity to deepen the democratic process. It is essential that the plurality of society is reflected in the laws and proposals of this House. Therefore, we understand that the fundamental objective of the regulation of lobbies is to ensure the transparency of the impact of interest groups on political decision-making processes, as well as to visualize their influence on the executive and the legislative. We are in favour of a register of lobbies that is capable of providing transparency and access to information, and that ensures a place of representation for all social actors in the decision-making process under equal conditions. But we want a serious, intelligent, innovative and effective proposal. We are not worth any proposal, because everything is not worth it, ladies and gentlemen. Far from what is proposed by this reform, we need to ensure the participation of citizens and civil society, of whom, due to lack of means or organization, they end up being the worst affected by the practical effects of the laws in which they have not been taken into account. This proposal, ladies and gentlemen, does not contain any guarantees to prevent it. We need real measures to ensure real participation, transparency and integrity in the political decision-making process, but we also need to talk about public access to information, a mechanism for sanctioning non-compliance with transparency parameters and independent bodies with the capacity to intervene in cases of corruption or manipulation, things that are absent from this narrow and insufficient reform of the People's Party. The voice of the citizenry must have a fundamental place in political decision-making and not be diluted in a non-integrative register, empty of content and control as it proposes. They have forgotten to articulate a mechanism that is able to control the action of the Members themselves, which is also applicable to the Executive, why not, and to the workers of this House. This reform seeks to make us believe that outside this House there is no lobbying, that the lobby is face-to-face, that reports and information circulating between lobbyists and legislators only count if they are printed on paper and delivered during a meeting. It is enough to see the political current of recent years to understand the omnipresence of the plot of interests of this bloc of power built from the Transition to see that outside this House the interests of these economic elites have used and continue to use their political influence and their remarkable impunity precisely because of that extra-parliamentary influence. It seems to us at least frivolous that the activity of the influence groups is intended to be regulated with a registration of names and a non-binding code of conduct, which calls for ethics, but does not intend to control or sanction those who do not comply with it. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is essential that this reform covers issues that remain in the box of oblivion, for example, the responsibility of Members of Parliament to maintain transparency parameters of their agendas, of their meetings, to know where the reports they use for legislation come from. While we applaud a compulsory public register, the regulation of indirect lobbying is not taken into account at any time. We all know that forgetting the definition of indirect lobbying has serious implications in terms of democratic quality. The lobby consists not only of face-to-face contacts, but of indirect work to influence the image of legislators on certain topics through the production of research reports for exclusively political influence, media campaigns, events, etc. All this is also lobbying and must therefore be regulated. First of all, the problem with this proposal is the definition of lobby, which I literally say: An interest group is considered to be that natural or legal person who carries out organized actions to influence the legislative power in defence of the common interests of its members. The problem with this definition is what is not. Entities that don't have members as such, are lobbyists? According to this definition, there are no large companies that carry out lobbying in house, communication companies, consultants, lawyers' offices, which devote much of their time and resources to activities of political influence. And, even more, what does it mean in an organized way? Professional? If so, do lobbyists with no clear employment relationship or direct remuneration also stay out? Forgetting the inclusion of lobby intermediaries and advisors, who indicate who to meet, how to draft amendments or what are the best arguments and techniques of influence, is forgetting to regulate the true core of what a lobby really does. This means that under this definition only sectoral associations that work together to achieve the same objective, namely small and medium-sized enterprises and non-governmental organizations, would be grouped together. That is, in most cases, those who are barely able to defend their interests or at least hear their voice. However, lawyers' law firms, communication agencies and large lobbying companies working for their clients, partners or companies are left out of the register. [[Applauds]] I believe that at this point we are all aware of the immense importance of language and terminology in legislative drafting. The second problem is in the same code of conduct. While we welcome the proposal for a code of conduct, as it is proposed, it is not binding on the legislator or the lobbyist, so the only meaning he has is symbolic. We believe that a code of conduct must transcend the willfulness of its compliance if we do not want to be back in the realm of cosmetic policy that the tripartite likes so much. What are we not talking about in this reform? There is no independent body capable of neutrally controlling the actions they wish to legislate; there is no in-depth discussion of transparency issues, such as the publication of Members' and Members' agendas; there is no monitoring or proposing sanctions on the irregular action of Members and Members or their seconded staff; there are no proposed real measures against rotating doors; there is no public access to documents handled between lobbyists and Members; there is no talk of the type of information being exchanged; there is no information on the budgets handled for lobbying; there is no regulation of the indirect lobby; there is no proposal for monitoring where the reports are used or who is behind them. Ladies and gentlemen, listening to professional lobbyists for regulation for themselves is very good, but it is more important to listen to all actors and to ensure the plurality of opinions and positions. You cannot convey your message as the big lobbies put it, because they would make us complicit in the reduction of rights and the social alienation of the political decisions proposed by this measure. Of course it is important for lobbyists to have some legal certainty, however, it is not possible that the regulation of the lobby is based on the flag of what has not worked, that inefficiency in this area is transposed in a frivolous way, changing something so that nothing changes. I'm done. This proposal does not protect plurality, freedom and political decision-making. Transparency cannot and should not be agreed against citizen participation in political decision-making. This proposal is dyed with the color of the big lobbies, those who work at the service of the big corporations, away from the citizenry of politics, opening revolving doors to public representatives. This proposal keeps out of the reach of public control the interests of the economic elites, the influences of power on the democratic system. It is these kinds of measures that lead us to the wear and tear of social rights, which push people away from political decision-making areas. This regulation should serve, on the contrary, as a lever to begin to lift the veil over the opacity inherited from bipartisanism, as a democratic example of the inclusion of society in political life and not to leave it again in the hands of the big corporations and lobbyists, who are undoubtedly the authors of the hindrance of this proposal for reform. To accept this reform as drafted would be to take another step back in the conquest of the rights of participation and transparency, it would be to continue to deteriorate democracy, and we have already taken too many steps back. We do not share the ambiguity or lack of depth that is proposed by loyalty to the representation that has given us, out of respect for so many injured anonymous people, for continuing to denounce the maneuvers of those who do not present themselves to the elections and act from the political treachery through these transnational lobbies, of those who impose precariousness in exchange for balls, of those who are increasingly enriched by the impoverishment of the citizenry, emptying of content our democracies. We cannot vote yes to a new plot maneuver to obscure the real spaces of power. Change something so nothing changes. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u40	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ciscar Casabán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal put before us by the People's Parliamentary Group envisages, according to its own explanatory statement, the regulation of the legal status of interest groups and, in particular, through four measures: the definition of the very concept of an interest group; the creation of a public register of a compulsory nature, in which the representatives of these groups must be registered; the establishment of a code of conduct to be submitted to them; and the determination of the body responsible for supervising the register, which is entrusted to the Presidency of the Congress of Deputies, with the support of the General Secretariat. Naturally, taking into account the area of regulation, which is the Rules of Procedure of the House, this rule would affect exclusively the activities that would be carried out by interest groups in the area of the Congress of Deputies in relation, therefore, to Members. The Socialist Parliamentary Group is in favour of regulating the activities of lobbyists or interest groups. Regulating interest groups is an essential measure to improve the quality of our democracy and especially to improve the quality of the parliamentary functioning of Parliament itself. We have supported it in this House by the various political groups in recent years and we have also urged it in international forums and we have urged it to ourselves. On 10 October 2016, the report on Spain by the Council of Europe's Group of States against Corruption was published as part of its fourth cycle of evaluation on the prevention of corruption by parliamentarians, judges and prosecutors. This report, known as the Greek 2016 report, concludes that our country has not satisfactorily complied with any of the eleven recommendations contained in its 2014 cycle evaluation report. Without palliatives, it describes as generally unsatisfactory the degree of compliance with its previous recommendations and calls on Spain to submit a new report on further progress and, in any case, sets 31 July 2017 as the deadline. Recommendations that have not been implemented include those relating to regulating relations between parliamentarians and interest groups or third parties who wish to influence the legislative process. It has been said from this rostrum when dealing with this initiative that there have been previous initiatives, some that fell at the end of the XI Legislature, others that have been raised, and more recently, in the Committee on Justice itself, on 20 December, before a proposal put forward by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, were able to discuss these issues and determine some clarifications, including the need for the regulation of interest groups, at which time the People's Parliamentary Group itself, for this or for other reasons contained therein, abstained and did not vote in favour of this proposal, although today it is precisely the regulation of interest groups with the content set out in this initiative. So not only do we have to regulate this matter, but we understand that from all the background, the various proposals that have been made in the House, it is now urgent to make this regulation. However, my group believes that the initiative is short, that it does not meet all the needs and regulations that are necessarily comprehensive, because it is practically limited to creating a parliamentary register. As for its definition, it serves exclusively to define the entities or persons to be subject to this registration, and failure to comply with the intended code of conduct results only in the cancellation of its registration and the prohibition of access to the Chamber. We are in favour of regulating the activities of the lobby, not only before the Legislature, but also before the Government and the Administration, and its actions must be transparent, informing public and periodically of its activities, but also of the high offices, which should report on the contacts they maintain with these lobbies, the content of the lobbies, their representation and the results obtained in those decisions. It is therefore essential to regulate the lobby where decisions are made. If we put control of the lobbies exclusively here, we would be distracting attention on the real weight of the lobbies in the government and in the administration. They will probably tell me that the regulation of interest groups in the parliamentary sphere does not prevent this activity from being regulated in the administrations as well. Certainly. But the order in regulation, in our opinion, should have been the reverse. The Government should have referred to the Courts a draft law regulating the legal regime of lobbies or included this regulation in the draft laws that it already referred in 2014 on the status of senior officials so that the Chambers could then adapt their regulations to the principles and basic lines of regulation that, established by law, the public administrations had to comply with. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, regulation must be uniform and consistent. This has been done in the European institutions, where the establishment of the transparency register for self-employed organisations and individuals involved in the development and implementation of European Union policies was carried out through an interinstitutional agreement between the European Parliament and the European Commission on 23 June 2011. Citizen participation is one of the pillars of the construction of democratic systems and of all possible forms of participation should be enhanced which have a positive impact on the functioning of democracies, on institutions and on policies adopted. Therefore, from the perspective of improving the democratic quality, we insist on the participation that is channelled through associationism. From the point of view of the functioning of the democratic system, the involvement of partnerships in political coordination and cooperation should be encouraged, as they are a key element in new forms of governance. That is why we must also think about the mechanisms through which this participation takes place and promote deliberative mechanisms rather than those of direct or individual participation. These general considerations are also necessary to reflect on the role of Parliament, a system of representation and citizen participation. The real challenge is how it can be transformed into a more deliberative and yet more responsive institution to citizens' demands without forgetting to strengthen its work of control of the Executive; function of legislative, forum of deliberation, control of the Executive. For this it would be important to change many of the procedures, because the aim is to facilitate this presence of civil society without altering the representative role of Parliament and parliamentarians. Hence, more than encouraging direct or individual participation, it is appropriate to increase the visibility of the representatives' connection with civil society. To improve this representation we should promote a Parliament as a more deliberative forum, especially in the committees, transforming them as far as possible into sectoral spaces for the discussion of laws, but also for the discussion with specialized social organizations, lobbies, in this area, where it will make more sense to review the interaction of parliamentarians with interest groups in order to avoid the mechanism of participation being the visit to the individual parliamentarian. Therefore - and I conclude - it requires a deep reflection on our Rules of Procedure, the need to take up a paper that studies all these aspects so that everyone can contribute to a more democratic and participatory solution on the part of society. In order to start this possibility of work with the contributions we make there, we say that our vote will be in favour of the consideration, although we hope that the process of the reform that is being initiated will not be left to the mere regulation of a parliamentary register, as in some way this initiative proposes. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u42	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, concerning the repeal of Law 23/2013 of 23 December, regulating the sustainability factor and the rate of revaluation of the social security pension system. Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. The Spanish social protection system has been the key to the vault of a system built by arteries in the form of benefits that throughout the democratic era has been consolidated, a framework that has been the network of protection for many citizens, has reached its maximum meaning to alleviate the effects of this damn crisis, provoked, as Anton Costas would say in his last book, by an ultra-financial capitalism that has acted to its breadth and without any limit; a crisis, gentlemen of the People's Party, that has served you as an excuse to lay the foundations of your own welfare state system and to unravel the social protection system as we have known so far, that is, the weakening of everything that sounds to the public good. Ladies and gentlemen, today in this Parliament, we all have the challenge, from the highest consensus, of redefining and further consolidating our social protection system. The Socialist Group has this claim and believes that it can say that the vast majority of parliamentary groups too. That is why this initiative is presented. Two are the issues that the Socialist Group has wanted to focus on since the beginning of this parliamentary term: firstly, to tackle the financial economic imbalance as a matter of urgency, and secondly, to tackle the situations of poverty and weakness of citizens. These are two emergencies that have been corroborated by a large number of experts, as well as by a large number of parliamentary groups. The perverse and capricious application of the revaluation formula implemented alone by the People's Party in 2013 confirms the sure loss of purchasing power in the event of positive inflation and the urgency in the social security deficit. Unless we remedy it, it will mean the loss in ten years of more than 13% of purchasing power, to which one point per year will have to be added as a result of the pharmaceutical co-payment. This initiative aims to reverse this situation. Its reform, the reform of 2013, ignored articles 41 and 50 of the Constitution and I must remind the lords of the People's Party, as well as the lords of Citizens, that the right to adaptation and re-evaluation is an intrinsic part of the right to pension. Ladies and gentlemen, the beneficiaries of pensions are more exposed than the rest of the population to the whims of inflation and economic conjuncture. This is a universal practice, as the ILO and the rest of the countries around us say. Moreover, Spain is the only country to which prices and wages are not affected for the purpose of the revaluation of pensions. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you insist on this peculiar statement that more and better pensions are being paid today. For more than 4.5 million people who are below the poverty line - as the representative of Caritas said - that statement does not serve, it is delict and, frankly, dishonest. Pensions play a crucial role in the fight against poverty and, on the other hand, enable whole families to live a more dignified life with more opportunities. Here we want to tell you that the opportunity to reverse the situation of poverty in which not only 14 % of workers are found, but also those 4.5 million pensioners, we have here, in this rostrum and, of course, in this plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a moment of great importance and you know it, not for the Socialist Group, nor for those who are now involved, this spokesman; it is a moment of great importance to reverse a reform that was made without consensus, completely altering the rules of play and leaving inflationary effects to a multitude of pensioners. This initiative goes far beyond this group. We are talking about what we want to be as a society, as a present and as a future. We are talking - and the representative of Caritas said so - about our democratic and moral size as politicians. Just as we have been and should be responsible for our decisions, we also have an obligation to fight and not to resign ourselves to difficulties or adversities. Without ignoring the demographic, sustainability and labour market problems, the truth is that today more than ever, we are being asked for solutions from consensus, indeed, but in an agile and effective manner. The report presented today by the OECD says that Spain continues to grow - and we are glad - but that inequality is also growing. Today, too, through the INE, we have seen inflation data and again it is 3%, confirming 3% of January. Ladies and gentlemen, the social protection system and, in particular, pensions are a tool of profound transformation that goes far beyond the economicist terms with which you, the gentlemen of the PP, want to convince us. If anyone thinks that the future is in each of us and it is we individually who have to guarantee our future and our well-being, he is very wrong. To end up individualizing the solutions is to individualize the risks, which makes us much more vulnerable as citizens and puts us in a clear position of disadvantage as individuals to end up being absorbed, as Anton Costas says in his book, by dismayed capitalism. Ladies and gentlemen, restoring the trust of millions of citizens is essential because they are waiting for immediate answers, mainly for vulnerable people but also for the rest of our society. This initiative requires an immediate response and recovery of what, in 2013, the leaders of the People's Party abandoned and dynamite, which was the consensus in the Toledo Pact. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the Toledo Pact was revived in 2013 when a reform was adopted unilaterally, without any consensus and with the letters marked. And we warned you, ladies and gentlemen. We will reach a consensus in the recommendations, we said it from the first day, even with that indecent GNP that you, the gentlemen of the People's Party, submitted, calling for the re-establishment of the Toledo Pact. The Socialist Party is there, we have reached consensus and we will achieve others, but what we have to do today is give answers to these pensioners who are waiting for us. But not only do we have to respond to pensioners, but we will have to think of the people, the young people, who have to believe that the Spanish protection system is one of the most assured and that they do not believe at the moment. They'll reverse that reform and they'll have us there. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u44	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde, intervenes in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u45	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. Access to a pension that allows people to live a decent life is a right that must be guaranteed by the public authorities, something that is far from being a reality today and seriously at risk of worsening in the future if corrective measures are not taken immediately. Far from achieving this goal, the reforms that have been carried out have led broad sections of the citizenry to be unable to access a decent pension. While widow's pensions, minimum pensions did not guarantee a minimum income from the outset, these groups are now joined by many other pensioners who see the gap between wages and pensions increasing as their capacity to spend declines. To justify the cuts implemented through these reforms, the Government uses as an excuse, on the one hand, the economic crisis and, on the other, the negative impact that the increase in life expectancy can have on the pension system, but what is essentially sought is the reduction of public expenditure. That is what has ultimately meant by delinking the CPI from the revaluation of pensions, which, instead of approaching the dignity of pensions, has pushed us further away from this goal. There are already calculations of the consequences of this long-term change that tell us of a loss of purchasing power of 7% between 2013 and 2022. Therefore, we need to act against the reforms, yes, but also take a step further, we need to achieve a system that ensures that the amount of pensions is not below the poverty threshold that the European Union establishes that it should be calculated on the equivalent of 60% of the average wage of workers in its environment, which led to reality, at least from Euskal Herria, would mean that pensions were not less than EUR 1,080 per month and the current reality is that both in Euskal Herria and the rest of the State are far from these figures. That is our demand and that is why we are presenting our amendment which, together with the transfer of social security, will be able to put all this into practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u47	Thank you, Madam President. My group was critical of the 2013 reform. It seemed to us that, beyond the fact that this reform was not consensual, it paved the way for the impoverishment of pensioners. Nor is it just for that reason that we share the approach formulated today by the Socialist Parliamentary Group with its initiative, but my group is also convinced that it is essential to regain the consensus in the Toledo Pact, that we must make the effort to be able to build a new look at pensions that broke in 2013, and the Socialist Parliamentary Group's initiative, if there was political will on the part of all groups, would allow us to start building that consensus. The relevant issue in building this new pension consensus is whether all groups share the principle that maintaining the purchasing power of pensioners and protecting pensioners from the risk of inflation should be at the heart of annual pension revaluation. This is the debate. In view of the amendments made by the various groups - we have not made any - if there was a political will to agree on this idea, on the idea that the objective of annual revaluation is to maintain the purchasing power of pensions and protect the pensioner from the risk of inflation, perhaps we could reach the agreement. I hope today that all the groups, especially the proposing group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and especially the Government Group, the People's Parliamentary Group, would have the will to reach that agreement. The Members of the Democratic Party are open and we would be happy if that consensus were possible. It is clear that if the consensus starts by renouncing that objective of maintaining purchasing power and not protecting the pensioner from the risk of inflation, we will not be there. I hope that this afternoon that agreement can still be reached. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u48	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u49	Good afternoon. Pick it up on. It is the Toledo Pact that is the subject of the debate on the future of pensions, of course; but it is also Parliament that is responsible for removing any obstacles that may arise so that there can be a healthy debate with the possibility of agreements within the Toledo Pact. Look, of the many speeches that we have had so far in the Toledo Pact, there was one that caught my attention very much and I have commented on it on some other occasion, at some other meeting. It was in the intervention of Caritas, where one fact stood out that, I repeat, I received a great deal of attention and that is that the crisis that we were supposed to have just experienced would not have been possible to be sustained by 45% of the population - that is, it would not have been possible for them to have been able to go through it without being at risk of poverty - if it had not been for the existence of the pension system. This leads us to a concrete debate and is that not only in the Toledo Pact but also as a society we must consider the existence not only of a pension system but of a pension system based not only on the sustainability of the system but also on the adequacy of pensions. And that's what it's about when I hear, when I see, when I'm participating in some debate where you're commenting on the idea of the absence of enough pensions to deal with life in a dignified way because that's the scenario that we seem to want to lead in some way. There is a false debate between the sustainability of pension systems and the adequacy of pensions that can be obtained tomorrow. It is not enough to guarantee the existence of a pension system, but it is also necessary to ensure that those pensions to which we can lead tomorrow must be sufficient. That is to say, it is also the aim of the Toledo Pact to ensure that those pensions that we will be able to have tomorrow - those which now, let us hope, we can have and those of those who will come after us - are sufficient. The curious thing is that, although there seems to be a certain debate on the guarantee or not after the reform existing with Law 23/2013, what has been true is that it is almost unanimous the opinion of all participants in the forum of the Toledo Pact to point out that pensions, as we could know tomorrow, if the measures laid down in the revaluation index and the sustainability factor were applied in their entirety and without any kind of correction, would amount to between 40% and 60% of what we currently know. That is, that the devaluation that could occur with the application of the systems or mechanisms provided for in Law 23/2013 would be that the pension that we know today would be devalued between 40 and 60 %. For an idea to be made, according to one of the data provided to us, the average inflation in the last fifty years - not that of the last ten or fifteen, but according to a broader period so that it can be more indicative - is about 2,25 or 2,30 %. If we applied that mechanism of 2,25 or 2,30 % constant inflation in the coming years, the consequence to which the application of the pension revaluation index, of the IRP jointly, would lead to the pension that today is 1,000 euros, that like those 1,000 euros would become 1,700 euros, the pension would not reach 1,100 euros. In other words, the depreciation factor of those EUR 1,000 would lead to the current EUR 1,000 being EUR 622 in 2037, i.e. we would be significantly affecting the purchasing capacity of pensions. That is why this debate is important, not so much because it is necessary to remember at this time that there are certain rules that produce an effect, but because they are the product of a unilateral decision by a government, by the PP government in 2013, and they are because it is up to this Parliament to remove those obstacles - I said at the beginning - that prevent an honest debate within the Toledo Pact. I sincerely believe that what this GNP seeks is above all to point out to the government that it has some gesture, so that it changes that determination of 2013 so that the purchasing capacity of pensions is guaranteed. Repeal as such is an expression that may sound harsh, but he does want to point out to the Government that this position he held at that time is not a welcome one today, that in order to reach a consensus within the Toledo Pact he has to change that position, and that the purpose of the Toledo Pact is the existence or promotion of an agreement on different issues. That's why, gentlemen of the People's Party in particular, I want you to understand...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u50	Your Honor, you have to finish. Your time's run out.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u51	I'm finishing up. I would simply like to point out to you that it is desirable not only that you change that position to have a signal with the Toledo Pact, but that you take up the invitation of the Labour Minister herself who, in her appearance before the Toledo Pact Commission, said: When we have built together, we have begun better times. I want the story to be applied, I want this lesson to be applied. Let us build together that future of pensions but on the basis of the agreement, not the disagreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u52	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Del Campo Estaún has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that if an initiative like this had been debated in this Parliament about four or five months ago, we would probably have been surprised. However, we are no longer surprised at what the Socialist Party can bring to this Parliament after a few shots - speaking, logically, in parliamentary terms. For one reason, we have been listening to and seeing experts in the Toledo Pact Commission who are telling us about the measures we need to take. All that time we have seen again and again in the appearances how the Socialist Group repeated to us that we must reach agreements and that we must bring reforms within the framework of the Toledo Pact with great agreements and with great consensus. All this time, we have also seen the Socialist Group's spokesmen face again and again the representatives of the People's Group that its reform of 2013 was not consensual, that it turned its back on the Toledo Pact and without the agreements either of the political groups or of the trade unions. It gives us the feeling that you have done and continue to do the same with these kinds of propositions. You, with Mr Zapatero's government, have already frozen pensions - I am not going to get into that because you will probably be reminded by the gentlemen of the People's Party - but then you, who have referred to us, brought a parliamentary initiative, a proposal for a law, which talked about increasing pensions by 1.2 points, around 1.2 billion, when you knew that in 2016 the pensioners had not lost purchasing power; you have not lost it either in 2016 or in previous years, because we have found ourselves in a deflation scenario with a 0.25 % pension revaluation. In addition, you knew that this bill was going to be vetoed by the government because it had budget allocations of about 1.2 billion euros. But it is no longer just that, that we are being brought here today by an initiative in which they propose that the reforms carried out by the People's Party in 2013 should be repealed and that pensions should be increased by 1.2 points. I would like to send you a message from here, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, that you stop contradicting yourselves, that you stop bringing into this House initiatives that are all you do is patch up the system, that you stop bringing into this House initiatives that are all you are looking for is a cover in a newspaper, and that are consistent with the search for consensus solutions within the framework where we are all, within the framework of the Toledo Pact. [[Applauds]] With regard to the reform of Law 27/2011, we believe that it was a necessary reform, a reform that was in the direction of ensuring the sustainability of the system and that had a major impact on social security spending. You were brave, raised the retirement age to 67, among other measures such as increasing the reference take-up period for the calculation of pensions from 15 to 25 years. It seems to me that it was a courageous reform and we agree that the People's Party carried out a reform, from the back to the House, which established a revaluation rate that took account of the income and expenditure of the system and a sustainability factor where pension calculation also took account of life expectancy. It gives us the feeling that if the People's Party had been ruling in 2011 it would have already done a very similar reform to what you did in the 2011 exercise and it gives us the feeling that you had done a very similar reform to what the People's Party did in 2013, because you are not inventing anything; nor are you inventing it either. They are reforms that come from Europe and you just have to look at what countries in our environment are doing, who have the same pension problems that we have and will see that many of them - Italy or Sweden - are putting sustainability factors or indexing revaluation rates to system revenues and expenses. However, I also say to you that we will agree that reforms have been carried out to achieve the sustainability of the system, but that reforms must continue to be made to ensure the adequacy of pensions in accordance with the mandate of Article 50 of the Spanish Constitution. As I said at first, we believe that this should not be done with patches. This requires reforms, it requires agreements within the Toledo Pact; we must let work on the Toledo Pact and that those reforms do not go backwards, that we do not go towards repealing it, but that we look forward to reforms that balance the pension system, and when we have the system between expenditure and income, that revaluation rate will not keep pensions almost frozen. That is why, along the lines of the amendment we have tabled, we ask you all to move forward together in the work carried out within the Toledo Pact Commission with the aim of reaching reform agreements that will ensure not only sustainability but, as I have said, the adequacy of pensions, because we must treat the system as what it is, as a genuine state policy, as one of the pillars of the social and legal state, and in these kinds of agreements you will find both me and my parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u54	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Madam Queen Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u55	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this Socialist Party's GNP is out of place in substance and in form. You know that we are working on the Toledo Pact - we are listening to the experts - and that we will soon be sitting down to discuss the conclusions and try to reach an agreement, but if we have to make some reform we will have to do it in the Toledo Pact and it seems, ladies and gentlemen, that you do not want agreements because you are only talking about repealing. They seem to want to break the Toledo Pact when it was precisely created to get pensions out of the political debate. Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes I wonder if you are laughing at the Toledo Pact, I tell you frankly. They talk about purchasing power and, precisely, from 2012 until 2016, pensioners have always had an increase in purchasing power. More than EUR 1.9 billion, ladies and gentlemen. This is the policy of the People's Party on pensions: increasing purchasing power. [[Applauds]] Do you know what hurts in the face of that increase? That the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, the left, has been the only party in this country that has frozen pensions and has lost the pensioners a purchasing power of 2.7 billion euros. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, where was the political size that Mrs Mercè Perea spoke of? Where was your political size at the time? When you ruled you froze the pensions and now that you are in opposition you are upset that there is an increase in purchasing power and you ask to return to the CPI so as not to apply it, because, of course, you do not apply it when you rule. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to return to the Toledo Pact. Why are they talking about repealing a sustainability factor when, first, it was provided for in Socialist Law 27/2011, and, secondly, it is going to apply in 2019? Is there no time in the Toledo Pact to talk about this potential sustainability factor? Ladies and gentlemen, return to the Toledo Pact. They talk about deficit and instability and I would be able to do so by belonging to the Socialist Party. Don't blame the labor reform, the wages, the flat rate. Ladies and gentlemen, 3,300,000 Spaniards in this country have lost their jobs because of the crisis and the disastrous socialist management. That's what happened. You are experts in creating unemployment and deficit. In Spain, when the Socialist Party ruled, the job that was destroyed in Italy was destroyed eleven times and the job that was destroyed in France twenty times, but don't worry that we will leave Social Security in surplus again, as we have always done and you have found it. The key to the sustainability of the system is employment; there are the 540,000 jobs created last year. We have recovered half the job lost, ladies and gentlemen, and what I regret is that you are only talking about the 2013 reform, which blew up the Toledo Pact. And the 2011 reform, ladies and gentlemen? Why don't you talk about the 2011 reform, which increased the retirement age from 65 to 67 without consensus in this Congress? It was done without consensus in 2011, when they froze the pensions also without consensus, but the pensioners know it. They know who has raised the retirement age, who has frozen their pensions, who has guaranteed them sustainability and who has raised their purchasing power, which has been the People's Party. By the way, 2011 reform that according to Funcas - everything has to be said - will entail a 20% decrease in the average pension, an average pension, ladies and gentlemen - also to be said - that since governing the People's Party has increased by 14% and for the first time exceeds the thousand euros. You have to be clear and tell the truth. The poverty rate of over 65 years of age has been halved since 2007. According to the report of the Banco de España, the group that has increased its income and wealth most during the crisis has been that of the pensioners, with more than 11%. And I'm going to tell you something, ladies and gentlemen. The key is revenue, i.e. guaranteeing purchasing power can only be done with higher revenue. Guaranteeing purchasing power without more income is cheating on pensioners, it is returning to the past, to what has already happened to the Socialist Party, which could not apply the CPI, could not apply the law and froze. Therefore, we need to talk about more resources in the system. We have already done so with the separation of sources of funding, and that is what needs to be done, further deepening the Toledo Pact in the separation of sources of funding. More revenue to guarantee purchasing power. From the People's Party - and I finish, Madam President - we are committed to guaranteeing the purchasing power of pensioners. Ever since we ruled, that's how we've done it. Others, Your Honor, cannot say the same. So let's go to the Toledo Pact, look for income to guarantee purchasing power and come to an agreement. I'm just going to say one thing to you, go back to the Toledo Pact. It's what this country needs, it's what the pensioners need, and there we'll be the people's party waiting for them. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u56	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, I have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u57	Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Esquerra Republicana came to the elections with a program, defending a referendum and a republic of workers, whether these wage-earners, self-employed or small and medium-sized enterprises, a republic in which the anti-popular laws of the People's Party are de facto repealed, such as the Law on Mordanza, labor reforms, Lomce and also pension reform. For this reason, meanwhile, Esquerra Republicana will vote in favour of the non-legislative proposal proposing the repeal of Law 23/2013, which regulates the sustainability factor and the rate of revaluation of the social security pension system. We call for its repeal for a number of reasons. The first is formal and democratic, which is not small. Its reform was made, like many, without any dialogue with the social actors and outside the Toledo Pact, which they now want to recover; I remind them of how the last reform was made. But, above all, we must repeal it for its content, because we believe that there is a majority to do so, and today we will again check - let us hope - a majority which demands that pensions be revalued, at least in accordance with the CPI. Why? Because pensions are not of the State, are not of its governments or of the Treasury, are of the workers, the deferred salary that the workers, whether on behalf of others or on their own, enter the common social security fund for the State to manage it properly. The pension system, Social Security, is one of the jewels of the crown of the workers' movement, today assumed by all those who believe in the construction of a welfare state. Well, one of the first responsibilities of any Government is to manage the pension fund, to manage the part of the salary that the contributors have entrusted to it so that, when the time comes, and the result of proper management by the State and its governments, the pensioners can recover the contribution and have a decent end to their lives with a sufficient pension. Well, this isn't going to be better, it's going to be worse. Economic policies have led us to an absolutely sick economy, as evidenced by the annual deficit of the Pension Reserve Fund; it is a symptom, clearly. And as the economy goes wrong, despite what you say, and will continue so if there is no radical change in course, you have had to worsen the conditions of access to pensions and their amount, and you have been able to do so with the tightening of the conditions of access to retirement through the Royal Decree-Law 5/2013 and with the unilateral reform of the public pension system carried out by Law 23/2013, which regulates the sustainability factor and the rate of revaluation of the social security pension system. This law affects, among others, as I said, the system of revaluing pressures, establishing a mode of updating with a formula that was nothing but a clear trap of the People's Party, because by changing the calculation parameter for revaluing, the loss of purchasing power and, therefore, its impoverishment was imposed for the future. The joint effects of their reforms today have meant that the longer the pensioners live the less money they will have. In fact, pensions have risen by 0.25 %, i.e. they are almost frozen for the third consecutive year. This seems to me to be a mess, especially if it is true, although we are afraid that they will lie to us, that the economy works as well as they say. If it turns out that the economy works very well and we can only climb 0.25%, it is that something fails, because this is not the first year; we have been going five years with really very low rises and the future, according to the experts consulted in the Toledo Pact, is going the same way. We are talking about an increase of 0,25 %; that is, if a lady or a gentleman has been raised by 2 euros the pension and the receipt of the light, drawing in short, is 8 or 9 euros more per month, only with the bill of the light has already lost a minimum of 6 euros per month; and this is the real world. Has the pensions increased? Yes, but prices have risen much more; they have suffered an annual inflation that this year is already 3%, and they are going to rise more. It is therefore an obligation for any Government to carry out the task of revaluing pensions with good management of the money entrusted to it by the contributors. There is no further revaluation of pensions according to the CPI, and that the calculation of the CPI is more rigorous and fairer. It is not the same as the CPI of a milleurist or submilleurist, who in the shopping basket goes everything, that of a person with a high purchasing power, for example. But this is a matter for another initiative. What is possible with the current configuration of the Congress is that the progressive forces already demand for this 2017 to regain the purchasing power of the pensioners immediately, through a pay that covers the deviation on the IPC, and thus recover as we said this index. And this can be done with the Toledo Pact or without the Toledo Pact, because just as it was removed without the pact, it can be restored without the pact. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u58	Thank you very much. Mrs Pita Cárdenes has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u59	Good afternoon, President; good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I say that my Confederal Group will vote in favour of the agreements proposed by this GNP, but it will be with great respect, Mrs Perea, because we do not forget that it was the Socialist Party that first froze the minimum pensions and hardened the conditions for access to retirement, and that five years ago they delayed the ceiling until the age of sixty-seven. You are always paving the way for the People's Party, because in 2013 they effectively shut down the pensions of the CPI, hardening that fallacious criterion of the sustainability of the model, which is by chance the same argument used by the BBVA, the Bank of Santander or the OECD, which, as you know, are the most interested in privatizing the public pension system. As they say in my land: children of cats hunt mice. Since the beginning of this crisis we have witnessed a process that has led in equal parts socialist and popular, and that is pushing us towards an excessively capitalized model of society; a society, as our grandparents would say, of so much value. And you repeat as a mantra to try to inoculate in the citizenry a series of non-truths that pursue nothing but dynamite the public pension system. How can they if they do not ensure that we are allocating an excessive percentage of our gross domestic product to pensions when we are below the European average? Nor do you tell the whole truth to people when you publicly say that the increase in the number of pensioners puts at risk the viability of the model, because you deliberately omit a fundamental fact: that in those countries where pensions are financed on the basis of social contributions, as is the case in our country, the key is not to equate the number of people who work with retired people, but on the actual volume of contributions and what each of them contributes to the system. And this index cannot be calculated without taking into account the levels of productivity and the amount of wages, which is ultimately what determines whether social security collection levels grow or decrease. You have taken advantage of the alibi of the crisis to turn essential public services, such as our pension system, into pure charity. Ladies and gentlemen, today 50% of our pensioners are poor; they are poor. And what is even worse, you have co-sponsored a historic decline in the number of social security contributors, due to the increase in unemployment, and a decrease in contributions as a result of the drop in wages. You have become, as good pawns of power, magnificent generators of poverty and marginality. Both have used the Toledo Pact as a make-up to justify a wild cut in the public pension system, making excuses for the same insolidary arguments that justified its creation in 1995, which are but the great lie of the sustainability of the system. And, Mrs Perea, today you are asking a government that you have put in power. I know they don't like to recognize it, but they do. [[Applauds]] And it is not serious, because it is not worth approving in this House the repeal of the law that has de facto devalued pensions if you then go through the corridors and sign, agree a general budget that will continue to cut, and that will therefore continue to diminish pensions and the purchasing power of citizens in general. I tell you with affection: we have a very hard course ahead, as hard as the social reality of our people. Pensions are going to be an important part of a much bigger debate, a debate that has to do with our labour market, with the productive model, with the continuity of the welfare state or not; a debate that will ultimately give us the kind of society we want. It is urgent for socialists to define and clarify citizens - in fact, not in words - with whom they are and who they defend, because they cannot be at mass and respite. Citizenship needs to know whether the PSOE that is sitting on this bench is the one that subscribes to initiatives like these or whether it is the PSOE of pensioners. I'm done, President. If the public pension system is sustainable, what is not sustainable is the progressive conversion of citizens' rights into charity; that is not sustainable. The destruction of the right to work and of work with rights is not sustainable; the calculated looting of pensions of almost 50 billion euros is not sustainable; a government that does not work for its people is ultimately not sustainable. Good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u60	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Perea i Conillas whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u61	We're coming to a transaction with the Basque Nationalist Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u62	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on the Development of a Special Protocol for the International Substitution of Minors. [[File number 162/000364]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u63	We then proceed to discuss the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning the elaboration of a specific protocol for cases of international abduction of minors. Mrs Moro Almaraz has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u64	President, good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, we are presenting to the House and to the honourable Members an initiative which we believe is necessary, on which we are all in agreement, and here at the end of the day it will be shown whether the union is indeed strong. [[The Lord]] We call for the elaboration of a specific protocol of action for the cases of international abduction of minors, adapted to the principles and norms established by our legal system and international treaties, and for the further promotion of vocational training and retraining programmes for all those involved in these processes. I'm doing it summarily. If you read Circular 6/2015, of the Attorney General's Office, on international abduction of minors, you will see that it says that, within the typology of parental abductions, the concurrence of the transnational element probably generates the most serious assumption, because the restoration of the previous status quo is more difficult. The abduction of minors takes place when one of them is unlawfully transferred by one of his parents to a country other than where he habitually resides, violating the right of custody attributed to a person or institution, and in cases where one of the parents moves with the minor to reside in another country by unilateral decision. Statistics highlight an increase in the numbers of this phenomenon of subtraction. If we go to 2016 there are 218 files, and since 2009 the Spanish State has gone from being a required State to being a requesting State. As stated in the so-called Pérez Vera Report, explanatory report of the 1980 Hague Convention, the situations considered as a basis for this Convention are those resulting from the use of de facto means to create artificial links of international jurisdiction, with a view to obtaining custody of the child. As the diversity of family groups among people from different countries, cultures, religions, the greater opening of borders, labour mobility, the breaking of cultural barriers, the very significant increase in couple crisis, the difficulties in developing paternal relations in break-up situations are increasing these assumptions. And it's not the numbers we're worried about; we're worried about people, we're worried about the family dramas behind each of those files and those that haven't gotten to be files yet. And they are not only united - and must be made clear - with the crisis of a multicultural family; conventional families also cause situations such as these and also occur in the field of those hosted or protected by the competent administrations. Today, with all countries aware that we have a problem to solve and that we cannot do it alone, that we have to solve it in international cooperation, the international legal system is certainly better than we had twenty years ago. It's not enough yet, but it's much better. Our internal order has improved. The national laws of the European Union are certainly legal instruments for the protection of minors, for the international protection of minors and their parents when they also want to carry out their duties. Mention should be made of the 2003 regulation on the European Union, the Hague Convention and some bilateral convention, but at the rest of the international level we still have to go to the recognition of foreign resolutions. It must be remembered here that there is a problem that we have not yet assimilated or rather a principle. We sometimes place minors in a battle between parents, in a currency of exchange; we forget that the important thing is the principle of the best interests of the child. This principle lies in the conventions - in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, in the Convention on Human Rights, in the European Convention - and is the basis for the functioning of these international instruments. Make sure that one of the biggest changes that took place in Spain after democracy was to talk about parental authority not as a power, not as a right, but as a set of duties and functions of parents, and this is forgotten. In international instruments, the child has the right to be related to the two parents, to be used by no parent as a currency, to be prevented by no parent from seeing the other parent. So kidnapping as a way of grabbing, of inserting it into another culture, of harming the mother or father is not acceptable. That is what we have to tackle, but in addition, if it can, this increases, it becomes more acute when in the very fulfilment of the international instruments we find assumptions - which can be many or few, but which are dramatic - where situations of gender-based violence occur, and where the parent who claims is in turn an abuser or an alleged abuser. The interpretation of a conglomerate of international norms, the understanding of the rights of different countries, in addition to the assumption of our own modifications, are very complicated. That is why we call for a protocol of action to be done - we accept what the Citizens' Group tells us - as soon as possible. A protocol of action implies facilitating - as is done in the field of gender-based violence - what are the principles of action, what are the guidelines to follow, what is the dissemination and at what time it must be carried out, who are the authorities that have to intervene; it allows us to order what we have, which is very and very rich. For example, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 we amended the Civil Prosecution Act through the Voluntary Jurisdiction Act. Here we make it clear that the prosecutor is entitled to act always in the protection of the child. He is entitled to act when the Hague Convention operates, when the Hague Convention claims the return of the child by a parent. It is not only necessary to restore this relationship with parents, but also in the exceptions of the convention that the child can be prevented from leaving a friendly, protective environment, such as ours, where the child has become a victim if he is in an environment of gender-based violence, and so that he is not required by a father who only wants to harm him and then avoid the consequences being irreparable. We firmly believe that by echoing what the professionals and parents concerned are asking us to do, by demanding that we defend the rights of the child, today we must agree without entering into the small letters, but rather the big letter: a protocol of action, more agility and better training of the professionals. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u65	Thank you very much, Mrs. Moro. In order to defend the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group intervenes, first of all, and this time it will also establish a position, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. International abduction of minors is an illicit increase in the number of mixed marriages and couples, the ease of movement between countries and the opening of borders. If the breakdown of a family is always a drama, in the case of a father or mother who unlawfully transfers or detains his minor children, he is added to the complex factors that have legal consequences, both in aspects that affect international norms and conventions as well as procedural ones, where civil jurisdiction and criminal law intervene, with their own peculiarities and different precautionary measures. I have tabled an amendment that seeks to alleviate one of the dimensions that further hinder the exercise of the right of a parent to deal with an episode of international abduction of his or her child: the factor of language, another enormous difficulty added to the person facing such situations. Think of the tangled face of legal proceedings in a foreign country, with non-Spanish language and in many cases in very complicated languages and terminology that respond to the cultural, legislative and normative characteristics of each country. The problem also exists for our Ministry of Justice when a request is received from a parent in connection with an episode of abduction of minors in a country that has made a reservation in relation to the language. There are almost 20 countries that are signatories to the Hague Convention that do not accept applications or documents that do not go in their own language. This adds another point of difficulty in a case of detention, abduction or abduction of a minor, and the Spanish central authority should be provided with the means and resources to deal diligently with the procedures with these countries, because speed is essential to act in the prevailing interest of the minor and to prevent the wrongfulness of the delay in time and further complicate its resolution. The Member who has defended this non-legislative proposal, Mrs Moro Almaraz, has commented on the difficulty of reconciling the text of my amendment, because her initiative seeks above all to revalue the drafting of a protocol. In any case, that will not change the positive meaning of my vote, but I would like to record the difficulties encountered by the central authority in translating documentation into certain languages of countries that have exercised reservations under the 1980 Hague Convention. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. I also give the floor to Mr Xuclà i Costa for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. There is no doubt that international child abduction is a matter of concern to the proposing group, to the Democratic Party, to the Socialist Party, which currently has an initiative on the same subject registered with the Equality Commission, and to all the other groups which have tabled amendments. The last news, the last data we have from the end of last year reflects that there are 206 cases of Spanish families broken with a part, with a Spanish spouse, who are claiming from a minor who is currently suffering an international case of abduction of minors. We will support this non-legislative proposal from the People's Parliamentary Group. Within the framework of an already robust and consistent legislation this non-legislative proposal basically calls for the elaboration of specific protocols to facilitate the actions of those involved, whether public officials or lawyers, and proposes the training and retraining programmes necessary for the professionals involved. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative is good, on the understanding that today the legal framework or instruments are already remarkable, as pointed out by the proposing group: the Hague Convention of 25 October 1980; I would also like to recall the regulation of the European Commission and the Council of 27 November 2003, which is powerful and effective, although only among the twenty-eight - for the time being - Member States of the European Union with regard to the enforcement of judicial decisions in matters of marriage and parental responsibility; currently the Civil Code, articles 103 and 158, or the Criminal Code in article 225a, so, ladies and gentlemen, through this non-law proposal we are not calling for a reform of the legal framework, but we are proposing to give instruments and raise awareness so that not only the legal response, but also operational to recover these stolen minors, is quick to deal with this drama that is currently taking place in 206 cases in the Spanish State. That is all; thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. Mrs Millán Salmerón has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, international child abduction is a global problem affecting thousands of children every year, when a child is illegally transferred by one of the parents to a country other than that habitually resident, violating the right of custody attributed to a person or institution, when one of the parents moves with the child to reside in another country making the decision unilaterally and violating the right to decide on the place of residence. According to sources of the Ministry of Justice, in the year 2015 109 petitions were processed in Spain calling for the return of minors to the place of origin, affecting these claims to 140 minors, and on the other hand, on the opposite side, 132 requests were requested for the return of minors who were illegally transferred or detained outside Spain and affecting 171 minors. In the abduction, there are very important factors and the consequences for minors in most cases are irreparable; this is reflected in the conclusions of Reunite, a non-profit organization that was born in the United Kingdom and specializes in international child abduction. It is reported that minors lost confidence in their parents, adults, and that it took many years to overcome this unpleasant episode. In addition, they had difficulty resuming their relationship with the parent they were no longer with, becoming more serious the longer it took from the moment of abduction, and had difficulty learning the language of the parent they were no longer with; therefore, they had difficulty maintaining their relationship, and this occurred in younger children. The main international instrument we have to protect children is the 1980 Hague Convention on Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction. This multilateral treaty, which already has 96 States parties, does not, under any circumstances, seek to engage in custody matters, but rather to give effect to the principle that any child who has been unlawfully abducted must be returned to his or her place of residence immediately. It is therefore essential to improve the mechanisms to assist in the early tracing of children, and the Hague Convention bases its action on the central authorities that each signatory State has designated, and must coordinate and cooperate to locate the child, prevent him or her from suffering, ensure immediate restitution and exchange information on the social situation of the child. In Spain, the General Directorate for International Legal Cooperation of the Ministry of Justice has been designated as the central authority. The reality is that this Spanish central authority has no powers, no powers to investigate and locate minors, and therefore cannot consult the archives to determine the domicile of minors. This is another clear example of the fact that the People's Party in the four years of absolute majority has not paid attention to the problems that the Spanish had. That is why I say to the Members of the People's Party that we are going to support this non-law proposal - a little late, but better late than never - because the Citizens' Parliamentary Group considers this GNP to be necessary, but also insufficient. That is why we have proposed an amendment with concrete measures, which we hope will be accepted. Because as long as that party that is sitting there is in this House we are going to bring in measures that give real solutions to the problems of the Spaniards, and not PNL that remain to cover the file. [[Applauds]] Focusing on the amendment, these measures would be: carrying out an information and public awareness campaign on the reality of international abduction of minors, specifying the body to which citizens can turn; providing the central authority with powers to ascertain the location of minors; providing a legal framework that establishes the obligation for certain bodies to cooperate with the central authority, such as the education authorities, health authorities or the municipal standard, and of course improving mechanisms to help the early location of minors, such as a database. Ladies and gentlemen, no one is free to make a mistake in choosing the person with whom he wants to form a family, but as representatives of the will of the people we are obliged to protect these children affected by this situation or at least to avoid or minimize the terrible consequences that this situation of extreme conflict between parents causes and generates for minors. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs Millan. Mrs Carreño Valero has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u72	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Confederal Group of the European People's Party is certainly in favour of improving the protocols on the abduction of minors. However, we must criticise the actions of the proponent party of this initiative, of the People's Party, by bringing to this House an empty initiative of content, as it usually does. This initiative today concerns an important and extremely complex social problem, but the content of it shows a total lack of rigour and an absolute lack of awareness of the problem we are dealing with. They say that the training of professionals needs to be improved in order for them to have a better knowledge of the problem. I recommend that you begin by learning what we are talking about, because this explanatory statement is quite a waste of thought. You begin by narrating the goodness of the globalizing process that has consolidated and allowed the free movement of people. In fact, refugees fleeing Syria are completely free to move, for example. It is true that capitals do move more freely from Soria to Panama or Switzerland. But by focusing on the international abduction of minors, let me say that, according to article 3 of the 1980 Hague Convention, we are talking about the unlawful transfer or retention of a minor when it occurred as a violation of a right of custody attributed to a person, institution or body. I mean, we're talking about custody and custody rights, not marriages like you guys are talking about. Let me tell you that today there are couples who have children together without being married. We must therefore not refer, as the Member of the People's Party has said, to the traditional family. In addition, the Spanish Constitution guarantees social, legal and economic protection to the family, but to all types of family, not to the traditional Catholic family to which you refer. [[Applauds]] Therefore, as I said, the reference to marriages rather than families or to the different forms of custody of minors is quite out of place. But you go much further by describing the causes of the increase in the presumptions of international abduction of minors, and I quote your text text: The so-called mixed marriages are becoming more and more common, understanding as those who contract people of different religions, races or languages, countries or cultures, who demand that, in the event of conflict, justice can overcome the traditional borders in order to unfold its effects. According to you, the consequence of the increase in this type of mixed marriages is the increase in international abductions of minors. With this paragraph, of course, there are many doubts. For example, if a Basque woman professing the evangelist faith marries a secular woman from Albacete, are we faced with a possible case of international abduction of minors? Or if a woman of Ceuta and Muslim religion has a child with a Catholic man of Valencia and both live in Madrid, should we apply private international law or are you clear that we should apply the Civil Code? Seeing this explanatory statement, anything could come out of that protocol they intend to do and in which at no time do they make clear a single coma of what they intend to include. You confuse religion, language or race with criteria of connection to one legal system or another. Let me tell you that in order for justice, as you say poetically, to overcome its traditional borders in order to spread its effects, that is, for us to be faced with an assumption of private international law, it is necessary to have a private legal relationship in which at least one person presents criteria for connection with more than one legal system. This is where private international law comes in to deploy its effects and to choose the rule of conflict. It is true that in order to define personal status, i.e. the law applicable to the person, there is discussion of the criterion to be applied, but these criteria have always been nationality, domicile or habitual residence and in no case religion, race or language. Of course, you are quite afraid and I fear that you will end up applying the Bible instead of the Civil Code. [[Applauds]] In short, this explanatory statement could have been drafted by the President of Hazte Oir. I ask you, therefore, a little more rigour in your next initiatives and also a little respect for all types of families. To finish the text, you end up blaming all the problems that people don't know about international conventions and don't assume a bit of guilt that maybe there were work problems in the central authority. Therefore, in the light of this text, we are proposing a replacement amendment which really contains measures to include in that protocol and which serve something. Among these measures, we have included, for example, providing resources to the central authority, giving it powers of investigation. A national register of minors should also be established to provide information, for example, on which school they were attending. Likewise, you must push international agreements with Latin American countries, where these cases often occur, or tend to have all the same measures and to bear all the costs of representing families, which is something we are doing in Spain, although there are countries that have made a reservation also within the European Union. That is to say, it is a series of concrete measures that you unfortunately do not want to accept because what you are coming to this House today is a toast to the sun, not to attack the real problem and not to establish a real commitment to the citizenry. Therefore, if you do not accept these measures, I will tell you that we will have to abstain in this vote. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carreño. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Ferrer Tesoro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to tell you a story, that of Juana Rivas. Juana is a thirty-six-year-old Granadan woman who has two ten-and-two-year-old children. The father of the children, of Italian nationality, met him in London at the age of 23; they started a relationship and went to live in Granada. After a year her first child was born and when she was two and a half years old, Juana started a business because she wanted to have economic independence because she was already ill-treated by her partner. In 2009 he dared to report it and he was convicted of a crime of family injury. After multiple disagreements and stories separate. In 2013, after more than two years apart, they begin to resume their relationship and offer him to go live in Italy with him; he promises that he has changed and that he will give him work in a rural house he owns. Juana, who has had to close the business with the economic crisis, is unemployed and also does not receive any subsidies. Once there he's violent again. She gets pregnant. He lives on a small island 8 kilometers from the nearest core. Can't bear it anymore, Juana, with the help of a friend, manages to return to Spain. Already in Spain, she asks for help from the women's centre in the locality where she lives in Granada. From here, a series of complaints, child custody claims and psychological counselling are initiated to both Juana and the eldest child who has witnessed the attacks directly. I'm not going into any more details. Last November, Juana received a notification from her father of a lawsuit for the unlawful transfer of minors. After various reports and appeals, the immediate restitution to Italy of the two minors with the father is agreed. He is now in the Granada High Court. This is the case of Juana, but she could also tell them the case of Vanessa or the case of Soraya, two cases that have been public. Unfortunately, there are many more anonymous cases in which women, victims of ill-treatment, see their children, who are also direct victims of such violence, being left unprotected. The international abduction of minors by the mother who is in turn the victim of sexist violence is a phenomenon that has increased considerably in a global way in recent years, and this is the reality, the terrible and cruel reality. That is why my group, after meeting with some of these women in this situation of helplessness, is presenting, on 31 January, a non-legislative proposal which raises, among other issues, the need to establish a protocol for the international abduction of minors from those women in which there is a situation of gender-based violence. Today we find here a non-law proposal of the People's Group, registered six days after ours, where it powerfully calls attention that does not contemplate the assumptions of gender violence at all; especially when, as we have commented, it is these cases that have recently created more social alarm, those that have generated this need to establish a solution to this situation. In 2016, more than 300 cases of international abduction of minors were heard in the courts. And the issue is not a lack of legislation, it has been said here; there are international rules, conventions, European rules, national rules, but no international rules, not even any internal rules, regulate in an express way the cases of abduction of minors in which there is a situation of gender-based violence. There is no doubt that children whose mothers are victims of gender-based violence are also directly victims of gender-based violence, and therefore all possible protection mechanisms must be established. This is necessarily by preventing minors from being removed from their mothers to be placed in the hands of an abuser. We're unprotecting these minors. This is the essence of the protocol we were asking for. The protocol you bring here today, let me tell you this, is a decaffeinated version of ours. Could it have been helpful to Juana? Well, yes, to know where to go - there is never much more information - but nothing would have done to prevent minors from returning to the abusive father, absolutely nothing. And given the inconsistency of this situation, I ask the gentlemen of the PP: Why do you not include cases of child abduction when there is gender-based violence? Doesn't that seem to you to be a situation far enough transcendental to take into account in the protocol presented here today? Ignorance is not, since it is enough to see the media. Has it been a carelessness, has it happened to them? Well, they had a GNP of ours, presented earlier, which they might have fixed. Nor do I think it is a matter of budget, here there is no compliance with the deficit that is worth, nor is it a question of drawing up new rules, because it exists and should only be adapted in one particular case. So, what's left? Won't that be an ideological question? We do not want to think that political and social conservatism prevents them from seeing a reality, a terrible and crude reality such as gender-based violence. Or is it the Episcopal Conference, so contrary to what they call gender ideology, that inspires them in their parliamentary activity to go from point to point in this scourge of terrorism? I would like you to explain it, but not to me or my group or the rest of the groups, I would like you to explain it to Soraya, to Juana, to Vanessa, whose lives are in danger. It's no use looking elsewhere, being insensitive to this pain...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u75	Mrs. Ferrer, you have to finish up.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u76	I'm finishing up. Not doing so, not addressing the scourge of violence courageously and rigorously makes them complicit. It's the moment you have to choose. If they accept our amendment, they will be helping to respond to women, boys and girls in danger. If they do not accept it, they will be feeding a stream that is doing much harm in our society: the negationism of macho violence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs Ferrer. Now, in turn of fixing positions, I have the floor, by the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u78	Thank you very much, President. We are being debated about taking into consideration an initiative to develop a specific protocol for dealing with the illegal transfer and detention of minors, through nationalities and residences other than parents. At the outset, we must point out that we are faced with a non-criminal, but civil issue and that it affects the right of custody granted to one of the parents, since the parent has the power to determine the habitual place of residence of the child. As an initial issue, we are faced not only with a problem between a national and a foreigner, in which the latter returns to his country of origin by taking the son of both, but also with the alleged inverse, a national who transfers his son to Spain, breaking the custody granted to his former partner of another nationality and resident in his country of origin or in another. It is an issue that we are increasingly faced with, given the mobility of people, and therefore Spain has a dense network of international and bilateral treaties, which gives great complexity to its management. Thus, in the international sphere, the 1980 Hague Convention governs; in the Community context, Regulation 2201/2003, which is of preferential application to the 1980 Hague Convention and also to the 1980 Luxembourg Convention, which also governs within the framework of the Council of Europe. At the bilateral level, there are agreements with Morocco and some other country, and at the international level, there are also bilateral agreements with China, Russia, Tunisia, Algeria and so on. In the light of this regulatory framework, we consider it appropriate not only to adopt an action protocol implementing these Treaties and to provide specific training and professional retraining for the operators involved, but also to reflect on the problems and shortcomings identified and which make it difficult to better implement the object of the Treaties. Focusing on the 1980 Hague Convention and Regulation 2201/2003 of the European Union, a protocol for action seems necessary because there are a number of issues where it would be important to unify the criteria. First, it should be remembered that applications must meet a number of formal requirements and must be substantiated. This has led to many refusals of applications and probably the loss of the possibility of recovering the minor if it has been a year since the transfer or removal. It is also necessary that the documents be translated into the language of the requested State or to which the requested State admits, as evidenced in numerous reports by the lack of sufficient staff by the Ministry of Justice for translations. I would also like to recall that the judicial decision must be issued no later than six weeks after the application has been lodged and that the practice of the Spanish courts must also be changed that the return order never indicates a date, nor a way, nor a place of restitution of the child, nor does it establish the consequences of his or her non-compliance, nor are they directly enforceable, because a period of 20 days is granted for his or her voluntary execution and, if not done, for a voluntary execution. Other jurisdictions include commitments that are binding on the parties and directly executive. It is also necessary to highlight the importance of the one-year period as a term after which return is almost impossible, since it is understood that the child has taken root in a new environment, and to highlight how this period is calculated, both in the dies a quo and in the dies ad quim. It should also be recalled that the objection to return based on the grave risk that the child will be exposed to a serious physical or mental danger or any other risk that puts the child at an intolerable risk - we could be here suggesting that the child should be subjected to a case of gender-based violence, as referred to in Article 13(b) of the Hague Convention - is not allowed under the European regulation if there are appropriate measures for his return. Finally, it must be recognized that the appeal and provisional enforcement against the order ordering or refusing restitution is in one effect, but it has caused many problems, because what if the final decision revokes the decision of the body ordering the return and the return has already been executed? For the return should not have occurred and yet it no longer has to go back. I would also like to point out that in Regulation 2201/2003, the refusal of the Member State to which the child has been transferred or is being illegally detained will be reviewed by the Member State of residence. Finally, as has already been pointed out at the outset, a practical guide or protocol of action is not only necessary, but also a series of reforms are needed to remedy some of the shortcomings that have been revealed by legal operators, such as - as already pointed out - the lack of competence of the Spanish central authority to investigate the location of the child illegally transferred or detained and also the lack of powers at the stage of execution of the return order. As regards the competent court, Spain does not concentrate jurisdiction in this area on a limited number of courts, as does France, the United Kingdom, Austria or Finland. Spain has more than 900 courts of first instance, while the Hague Convention's Protocol of Good Practice recommends concentration in one instance, for the accumulation of experience among the judges involved, for the establishment of mutual trust between the judicial and central authorities in the various countries, for a better knowledge of the Convention, for a reduction of delays and for a better coherence between judges and lawyers. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that there are sufficient reasons for drawing up a protocol of action and also for reviewing serious shortcomings identified by legal operators which hinder the implementation of the rules on the transfer and illegal retention of minors. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen; thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u80	Again, Bona is late for everyone. Mrs Moro, I will not make a legal assessment or what legislation is applicable - international conventions, bilateral conventions - or the application of the Criminal Code, which often occurs in these cases, of the application of civil law and, when it has been removed, of the application of the Penal Code. In any case, in order to focus the subject of debate, we are faced with a non-legislative proposal by the People's Group, by the party that governs the Kingdom of Spain. I want to make a point. They've done it before. They did so at last week's plenary session, when they presented a non-law proposal also linked to the Ministry of Justice, in which they raised the need to establish mechanisms for mediation. We told him at that time: the People's Party governs the Kingdom of Spain and has executive functions to carry out certain policies. Today we are presented with a proposal for a law that abounds in the topic of international abduction of minors. We share the arguments of the various spokesmen of the parliamentary groups regarding the difficulties involved in this issue; it is, however, a non-simple proposal for a law. It says: elaboration of a protocol. Perfect. And then: formation of the people who are related, in this case from the courts - first instance, instruction, family courts wherever they exist - to the police, forces and state security bodies, customs, etc. It's fine, it's a non-innocent proposition of law. She doesn't bring or stay, she's harmless. In any case, when it comes to drawing up this protocol and all that it has to do with it, I would emphasize the obligations of the Ministry of Justice, but also the intervention of other ministries involved, such as the Interior and the Foreign Ministry. In any case, we do not believe that it is a non-legislative proposal that cannot be voted on, but quite the contrary, but I would like to insist on an aspect that is also not vague. What the Group of the European People's Party is proposing today is not yesterday or the day before, but it has been happening for a long time and you have been ruling for a long time. This is it. They have ruled during the 10th Legislature by absolute majority and could have done so. In any case, without wanting to insist more on this issue, it is perfectly voting, but the executive function is the Government of the Spanish State and I do not understand that they bring us a non-law proposal that says that a protocol has to be made, but it does not say how, and that all professionals who find themselves involved in these specific facts must be trained. Indeed. Then do it. We will see what we are voting on; it is perfectly voting, but it is a function of the ministries involved in this issue. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs. Capella. I should now like to ask Mrs Moro Almaraz, in turn of accepting or rejecting the amendments, whether her group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u82	Mr President, at the moment we are trying to make a compromise of partial acceptance of some of the amendments. We do not accept Podemos' amendment, nor, as the Forum spokesman has explained, does he accept his group's amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u83	All right. We take note of whether there is a compromise before the vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u84	We shall now proceed to discuss the motions resulting from urgent appeals. Firstly, it is appropriate to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the policy that the Government intends to adopt with regard to the recruitment model for predoctoral research staff. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Urquizu Sancho has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. My group's motion has to do with the question we made last week to the Minister of Education, in which we have shown our concern about the changes that predoctoral researchers have undergone in recent weeks. It is true that the Government has rectified and we have returned to the situation of origin, but that does not mean that we are not concerned about predoctoral researchers and science in general. And since we want this not to happen again and we want to take it seriously, we have considered presenting a motion where two ideas basically develop. Firstly, we need to develop a statute for research teaching staff, as set out in article 13 of the University Act of 2001; that is, we have been almost sixteen years behind the legislation. We also want the status of training research staff and, more specifically, of these young researchers to be regulated. The Science Act of 2011, both article 21 and the second additional provision, already referred to this possibility. These two elements are relevant. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u86	Wait a minute, Mr. Urquizu. Please be silent so that we can listen to the speaker. Go on, Mr. Urquizu.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u87	And they're relevant for a number of reasons. First of all, as we told the minister last week, so that those dedicated to working in this country, also those dedicated to science, have not only social recognition but also stability; that they have dignity as researchers and scientists. In a very ancient past, which has to do with 2006, they were only fellows, but now in our country we are talking about scientific workers, regardless of the stage they are in. Secondly, because this is part not only of a country model but also of the future. This country has to rely on science, research and innovation or it will have no future. If we are to achieve that future and that future is to be brought to us by that group of people, those people must, as I say, have decent work and must see these rights recognized. We're scared of some things about these people. Many of the inequalities we have today can end up reproducing in this technological change, in that innovation. That is to say, we want to prevent a situation that causes us great concern, that there are very precarious workers and that, in the case of science, this precariousness also occurs in people who have such a fundamental role for us and for this country. If we are able to develop a regulatory framework for those who are going to devote themselves to science, research and innovation, we will be able to draw all the talent that exists in society. We need to be able to tell the surely best generation of scientists we have right now, who are dedicated to science and who continue to bet on it, that they will continue to do so because they will have not only a future but also us. That is why, because we believe in them and in that future, we believe that we need to create a regulatory framework that allows us to draw all the innovation and creativity we have in this country in the form of science and research. But that is the future and now we are in the present, and in the present we have to address these two issues: predoctoral researchers and scientists. We believe that a dialogue has to be opened in the scientific community with the autonomous governments, with universities, with research institutes so that they can agree on how they have to hire all these staff, in what rights they have, in what different stages they are going to go through, in short, on how to offer them a future of certainty, which I believe is basic for scientists. Scientists and those who want to dedicate themselves to science in our country right now must have certainty about the horizon that awaits them in a profession as beautiful as research is. Finally, we are also talking about young people. Surely it is the young people who have suffered the crisis most virulently. We cannot tell such brilliant young people that they have no way out in our country and that they have to look for it elsewhere. That has been the past few years, and the way to stop it and get all those young people not to leave and stay here is to offer them that certainty, offer them a model of recruitment and a way to devote themselves to science in a dignified way. The future of our country, the future of young people and the future of research are at stake, so we need to develop rules, which, as I said at the beginning of my speech, are somewhat delayed. Finally, I would like to thank all groups for their efforts to join this initiative. Each has reflected its nuances with regard to science and the scientific community, but everyone has made an effort to try to reach agreement on something that I think is very important, and it is how to make progress towards a better society and not stand back from other countries. Therefore, my thanks, since I believe that we have been able to reach a good agreement between all of us. Let us now see the interventions, but of course I want to show satisfaction because I believe that we have all taken very seriously what this motion means, what young researchers in our country mean and what science means for Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Urquizu. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also fix its position on this occasion, Mr Bataller i Ruiz, intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, one day they were working at the university and in the research bodies with a contract for work or service, which they had signed. The next day, that contract was practice. No one warned them. Most of the thousands of predoctoral researchers hired in our country learned from the media. Thus, unilaterally, retroactively, the Government proceeded to modify the codification of its contracts. This, of course, caused a wave of indignation in the university sector. This discontent was not only due to the loss of labour rights and conditions, but also due to the precariousness of the research sector. Researchers rightly feel that the weakest link in the scientific chain is being attacked. As with all education, the university is subject to cuts and transformations towards models that escape the ideals of universalization, equity and social justice, which are typical of public and quality education. Among the functions of universities, research work is fundamental to the generation of knowledge, but what we usually find is that this function is forgotten or passed on to a background. Under the pretext of the crisis, research staff have been reduced on a stable full-time basis in our country, encouraging the emigration of our young researchers and teachers to countries in our environment, something that we must remedy by encouraging the research communities; that they can move freely and allow their members to take root in every moment where they are most suitable for the development of their research; that we do not once again have noisy shows from cutting-edge research centres that end up firing their members and forcing them to resume a career in countries that take science seriously and where, in the end, these people emigrated personally and socially. We are going to accept the compromise proposal with the Socialist Group and other formations because we understand that we need to stop being with our arms crossed. It is necessary, for the sake of science, that we vote affirmatively on this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller. Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u91	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. I can't start by seeing that yesterday nothing happened. We're all in one room and in the middle there's a big elephant, and many here show that the elephant is not, but the elephant is and the elephant is called reality, and the reality is also Catalonia. It is legitimate to think that there are alternatives to staying under the umbrella of a country which has no project or proposals, which is stuck, which is enquished and whose political representatives do not have the courage to update and present new proposals. We have an alternative and it is on the table, and they like it more or they like it less we will continue to defend it and people will continue to vote it. And in the face of this, which exists, your only proposal to date is to penalize any attempt to provide the people with an urn to decide. The Venice Commission has warned you, Europe is beginning to speak and in Scotland there are no complexes about a second referendum. They have made Spain a country in which to obey the people is to disobey the Constitutional Court, a country in which to carry out the electoral programme can cost you the disqualification. I see them retreating so much that all I can think about is saying: The future is forward and not backward. But, Ortega, Rigau, you are not alone, I would also do it again. I'm starting. A good State should never be the author of the removal of useful tools or the one responsible for hindering progress; it should be just the opposite. The Ministry of Employment and Social Security decided to change pre-doctoral contracts for work and service to contracts in practice. Do you realize the defencelessness you are subject to? In addition, they unilaterally bring the Spanish State back to an unacceptable decline in both rights and working conditions, increasing precariousness and also instability. We understand the proposal with good intention, but we also believe that we must respect the models of both universities and autonomous communities. The research career is not a bureaucratic or official process. We bet on an open model in which rights and duties must be accredited through evaluation processes, also open, that facilitate mobility and competitive competition. And I invite you again to look at the model we have in Catalonia. We will vote in favour of ending precariousness and instability, but highlighting our commitment to the sum of stable resources in research. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nogueras. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. The Socialist Group's motion was the result of an inquiry into the minister. I mean it drifted because the motion at the end has become something else. What was intended in the inquiry seems to have resulted in another area, but in the end we agree with what has been raised in the motion. Without a doubt, we are not going to deny the elaboration of what is proposed here with regard to the research teaching staff, because we believe that this statute can be valid. With regard to the figures of research teaching staff provided for both in the organic laws mentioned in the motion and in the Law on Science, Technology and Innovation, we in Euskadi, for example, have specific figures of research teaching staff regulated in our own Law on Universities of 2004, together with the Law on Science and Technology, being able to develop a policy of support to researchers, of support to scientists, so that they can develop their work just before they do the doctoral thesis. However, when it comes to things like this, we must be careful not to interfere in areas that do not belong to us and run the risk of invading the competences that, for example, the Basque Autonomous Community has in this area. In addition, its own Law on Universities empowers Euskadi in this area. In this respect, we have tabled two amendments which aim to contribute, improve and limit certain issues. Firstly, we have tabled an amendment that differentiates the types of contract. We call on the Government to make the necessary regulatory changes so that the type of contracts of the research staff - being predoctoral in training, temporary access to the Spanish system of science, technology and innovation, etc. - is also applicable by private non-profit organizations and entities dedicated to research. In other words, we believe that there are entities, that there are organisations working for research and that they can develop their non-profit work and benefit in this area. With regard to the second amendment that we have tabled, we also believe that it is necessary to distinguish - as I said before - clearly the types of contract of the training research staff, which affect the predoctoral researchers who carry out the doctoral thesis, from those which affect the predoctoral researchers, to whom they are hired to collaborate in a research project - very important, but different - whose objective is not the realization of a doctoral thesis. This is important because we argue that there has to be an empowerment of those who want to do a doctoral thesis and who are working for it. We have therefore tabled these two amendments. We know that some question private non-profit research centres. They are centers that, in the case of Euskadi, carry out a very important work; they are centers with public-private economic support that make the economy then operate in an important way because they carry out research works very valid for the entire development of a country. We have seen that a compromise has been presented that takes things from each other, and we will support it because we believe that it is important, although we believe that we must take into account the fact that it comes into areas, as I said before, which do not belong to it and respect the competences that each autonomous community has in this matter. I would therefore like to tell the Socialist Party that we will be involved in the transaction. We have been included in that transaction in some part of our amendments, although another has not collected exactly what we expected, but at the time when the Government collects the glove, such a law is put in place and this staff is given a statute, we will emphasize that all these issues are incorporated. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u94	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by denouncing attacks that took place this afternoon at the Autonomous University of Barcelona by independent groups on behalf of Catalan civil society. [[Applauds]] This is the second time this parliamentary group has had to bring complaints such as the one I have put forward to this House. Whoever it is, please get your brown shirts out of college. [[Applauds]] Having said that, it is an honour for me to defend before this plenary questions related to science, with the university and more specifically with the teaching staff and researcher to whom I belong. The reason for this motion, which was the misrepresentation of the predoctoral researchers from code 420 to code 401, had already been the subject of a meeting with those concerned by my parliamentary group, as well as of a parliamentary question, as well as of a legislative initiative calling for the development of the Science Act, which we certainly presented before the Socialist Party. It is therefore clear that we are in favour of this proposal and will support it. Fortunately, what has happened to Mr Urquizu, who learned in this forum of change, has not happened to us, the change given by the Government. And I say that it has not happened to us because I personally asked for a meeting with the Secretary of State of Universities to ask him to remedy the pyphia - because there was no other name - that had occurred and that affected more than 10,000 researchers, who, despite what the minister said, really left in a rather bad situation. The truth is that fortunately and conjuncturally it has been solved, but there is no harm that it does not come, and I say this because this bottleneck, for which the government blames the CRUE and the PSOE blames the government, really what it has done has been to focus on a question that we think very important, which is the precariousness of science. I am going to version the Cohen brothers, who said that the United States is not a country for old people; I mean that Spain is not a country for science, and especially it is not a country for scientists. I could spend every minute of my time talking about the problems that science and university have in this country, from the lack of coordination between the autonomous communities to the dawn in which we are researchers and university professors; from the economic and political cycles to the lack of specialization of universities and the asphyxiation that is causing the bureaucratic question to the scientific community with, for example, issues such as previous intervention. But if I had to choose the issue that is most urgent to solve that is the one that is brought today in this motion, which is the definition and consolidation of the research career and the situation of the research staff. Apart from predoctoral contracts, what cannot be today is that a university professor who works slowly is equally valued as one who is generating research teams of excellence. That is why we believe that we cannot wait any longer and the two issues raised by the Socialist Party must be put into practice: on the one hand, the status of the IDP and, on the other hand, the development of the Science Act, with all that it entails in terms of human resources. I would like to conclude by saying that I was very surprised that it was the PSOE who brought this issue up because it was really them who, in 2007, raised a statute for teaching and research staff who, from my point of view, put on the table very important issues, such as the horizontal career. At that time they couldn't get him out of the way. Now Citizens is here and if you put it back on the table we'll support it. That is why I say to the Government and the People's Party that there is no need for major innovations, that the draft, that it had many reasonable questions, that we should update it, that we should adapt it to the current situation and that we should work without further delay on all groups, as we have done with this compromise, in order to solve these problems of work and professional development. You know that for this, for what it is work, for what it is negotiation and for what it is to solve real problems, Citizens will always find us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martin. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are here to discuss the situation of the researchers in our country and especially those 10,000 researchers who, by surprise, found that their working conditions had worsened unexpectedly and we could say that to treason; unexpectedly because it was not foreseeable that they would change their working conditions from day to day when they were already regulated by the Science Act of 1 June 2011, a law that had not been amended and therefore remained in force, and to treason because there was no warning, neither prior nor subsequent, about the change that had been made. It was the predoctoral researchers themselves who, when they discovered that their contribution code had been modified, from 401 to 420, and after a period of uncertainty and search for answers about what this implied, knew that they had ceased to be workers by work and service to become again what they had managed to overcome after years of claims; that is, to become again workers in practices, as fellows. But the move has gone wrong with the Government because they were wrong about a small thing, and they did not take into account that young researchers in this country are an informed and aware collective about what their working conditions are and what they should be, and what treatment this Government receives and what it should be. From the Ministry of Employment it was said that these changes would be administrative in nature only, so they would not affect the contribution, unemployment benefit, the right to leave or compensation for dismissal; in short, the rights that every worker should be recognized. But this was totally false; as the affected people themselves have pointed out, this change had profound implications for their future and for their present work. Now, following the social pressure of these weeks, it seems that the government is backing up and will not implement this measure, so we are happy, of course. But if the Government thought that with this correction it would be enough and we were going to look elsewhere, we have to tell it that it is wrong, because if something has revealed this lack of precarious working conditions for thousands of predoctoral researchers, it is precisely the situation of insecurity and lack of protection in which they find themselves. And this situation - to be said - is the result of the lack or non-development of a statute for training research personnel that is in accordance with the Science Act 2011. You had two years to develop this status and did not do so in the last legislature. Why this statute? It is a statute that has to definitively dignify the working conditions of the researchers and match them to the rest of the workers of the institution in which they are located, whether they are university or a research centre; a statute that ensures that they are de facto workers with the same rights and not second-hand workers. But improving the conditions of predoctoral researchers does not end with improving their contract during that period, but is closely related to improving investment in research and increasing the replacement rate of university staff and research centres. In our view, this is the only way to create a solid infrastructure that will allow the continuity of the research career within Spain. Public investment in R & D has been reduced by 40% since 2009, which has meant that research, which was already under way, has come to the fore. Continuous budget cuts in science and research are leading to the loss of research staff, infrastructure, projects and research groups. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we raise the need to shield research spending and remove the current limits of the rate of replenishment of public employment in research and development, because the loss of staff we have just mentioned adds to the aging of researchers, with an average age that is already over fifty years old. And, in fact, without an adequate replacement rate and without the call for places, young doctoral students and doctors cannot stabilize their research career and are placed in the most precarious position. In this way, some researchers find themselves in forced exile or - as the ineffable Minister Fatima Báñez would say - in external mobility, the only way to continue linked to research; others, unfortunately, will have to abandon a vocation for which they have been preparing for a lifetime. That is why there are thousands of researchers who need to plan the calls for contracts at the pre-doctoral, post-doctoral and stabilization levels, as well as a regulation of the periodicity of the calls. There are thousands of researchers who need research contracts that are matched and consistent. If 100 predoctoral contracts are offered, plan 100 postdoctoral contracts. Without this planning the university career becomes a career of unmotivating and meaningless obstacles. I'm finishing up. We could say much more about research and its protagonists, as well as the treatment that science receives, that research receives in Spain, but to close our intervention nothing better than resorting to a motto of the Federation of Young Researchers, because without science there is no welfare, without science there is no recovery and without science there will be no future. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u98	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Valmaña Ochaita has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Until 2013 the aid granted through calls from the Secretariat of State for Research was defined as two years of scholarship and two years of contract. They were called training aids for research staff and, of course, it was an unwanted situation, a situation of precariousness that has been and has been maintained throughout all socialist governments. It was in 2013 that predoctoral researchers were already offered four-year contracts. This led to a qualitative improvement in working conditions and, in fact, to put an end to the precariousness of the past. Although this measure involved considerable additional expenditure at a very complicated time, the number of aid did not decrease, but remained at around 1,000 annual aid. In addition, in 2014 they were completed with funding for an additional year of the postdoctoral orientation period for those researchers who had completed their doctoral thesis in three years, in advance of the beginning of the last year of the aid. This has been launched by the People's Party, the People's Party government, which has ended the precarious work of researchers in Spain. That is why I want to take advantage of this effort made by all Spaniards through the action of the government of Mariano Rajoy and the vision of the future that it meant in the worst moments to bet on research and researchers, with facts. A sample is the more than one thousand four hundred predoctoral contracts, said at this headquarters just a week ago the Minister of Education. Anyway, the facts are clear. The Socialist Group is proud - and I think it is legitimate - of what the Socialist governments have said; it has said, because the reality of Spanish researchers has changed little. Changes, rights, guarantees have always come from the hands of the governments of the People's Party. That is why, on behalf of my parliamentary group, I would like to express my pride at the work done to eradicate precariousness from Spanish research. But let's get to the bottom of it. The fundamental thing is that we can agree, despite the differences. This is reflected in the text of the amendments that we have prepared by the various parliamentary groups. We will agree - I hope - for the benefit of research and researchers; we will agree on the need to draw up a statute for teaching and research staff. That is what my parliamentary group and the other groups are saying, but it is also what the Spanish Government has said, until the education presentation recently adopted at the National Congress of the People's Party. We agree that we must recognize the important and fundamental work and the role that researchers have in our society. We agree that, despite how much progress we have made in recent years in recognizing the labour rights of researchers, we must continue the path we have taken. We can't go back to the precarious situation before 2013. It is necessary to develop a professional career for predoctoral researchers through the development of research, teaching, the transfer of knowledge to society, because through these instruments it is how we can make a professional career real based on merit and capacity. We also agree that we need to analyse in depth the Staff Regulations for Training Investigators in order to give effect to the implementation of the research career. Yes, sir, we fully agree on all this. For all these reasons, I believe that we can reach agreements, such as the one we have managed to reach this afternoon. If we work together we will be really working for science in Spain, for research in Spain, far from sterile partisans, far from unjust reproaches. So we will be further away than ever from going back to unwanted situations of the past, which entailed the real lack of guarantees, the real lack of rights, the real lack of looks to the future, looks that I hope all the parliamentary groups this afternoon will be able to do. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u100	Thank you very much, Mrs. Valmaña. [[Protests in the public gallery.- Several guest gentlemen in the public gallery show some leaflets reading: Predoctoral dignity]] Signs of approval or disapproval in the rostrum are not permitted. Please dislodge the stands. [[This is what the services of the House are doing.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party-In Comú Ponde-In Marea, back to the public gallery]] I am sure you know that, but I just want to remind you that Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure is very clear and it also seems to me to be a rule that preserves good order and the ability to express ourselves all in this House. You know that neither the expressions of approval nor disapproval are allowed, so I believe that we should all promote good respect for the regulation which, I say again, protects us all. [[Applauds]] But above all we should respect the Member who was speaking, or was going to have, who is waiting for us to maintain that order. Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor in position-setting by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, promote the research career, advance in the Staff Regulations of the Teacher and Researcher, ensure that the staff who make a contract, as is the case with predoctoral researchers, do not lose rights with the collaboration of the autonomous communities and respecting university autonomy. So far, okay; all this is necessary but why have we not signed the transactional? Because it is necessary but insufficient. I'll explain. What's the bottom line, the contracts? What's the bottom line, the race? No, the problem is how this State treats science and the Spanish State treats science badly, very badly. As mentioned above, resources for science have been reduced by 40% since 2009 and this has not been the norm in the European Union. We have dropped 33 points below the average, which has grown by 0.16. And not only that, Germany has grown by 18%, but we are not comparing ourselves with Germany but with Slovenia, which was below Spain's GDP in 2009. Spain is currently at 1.26 and Slovenia, a small country, a small republic, is at 2.22 of GDP. You can love science and you can do things very differently. Economic crises often have two immediate effects on science in Spain. The first is the cuts because science is one of those sectors that Governments such as those we suffer and suffer consider the tides of the economy, which adorn and give splendour in times of good times but which are unable to contribute to the great trends of employment and growth. They are, therefore, invisible to the Sarrió magnifying glass of macroeconomics. The early scientific powers not only know that science is a strategic activity that requires continuity, but also that the industrial structure of a country depends on the commitment of its public powers to research and development. But since these things take more than one legislature to bear fruit, it is an ideal target for political myopia. The second effect is to begin to demand more results applicable in the short term and less basic science on such fundamental and abstruse issues that the minister who understands them cursed: more applied research and less basic; more engineering and less philosophy. If we apply the ear, that's what has been heard these years in the offices. Let the geniuses go to Harvard. Another mistake. An anecdote that I heard a while ago about Gladstone and Faraday - it seems to me that of the unforgettable José Luis Sampedro - said something like this: Mr Faraday, what is all this for?, asked Prime Minister William Gladstone. Faraday replied, "I don't know, sir, but someday you will be taxed for it. Look, I'm telling you, if it's not true, it's well found. Michael Faraday, without academic background but considered the best experimentalist in history, and the great physicist and mathematician Clerk Maxwell, opened a continent to science by discovering in the 1880s that electricity and magnetism are not two forces but two ways to look at the same force, the electromagnetic force, and that light was one of its manifestations. Prime Minister Gladstone did not get taxed for it, but his heirs - from all over the planet - have put their boots on! This is how knowledge and industry advance; not cutting blind and demanding results of urgency, short legislature and short rulers. Science and the Republic! Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u102	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz. At the time of acceptance or rejection of the amendments, I ask Mr Urquizu Sancho whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u103	Yes, we have accepted all the amendments, we have negotiated them, we have a new wording signed by the various groups and I will now bring to the Bureau the text of what the motion would finally look like.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u104	All right, we'll take the deal into account for the vote. Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, on the situation of discrimination against LGBTI persons, especially women. [[File number 173/000020]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u105	It is now appropriate to discuss the motion following urgent questioning by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the situation of discrimination against LGBTBI people, especially women. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs García Puig has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u106	Good afternoon. Good afternoon. A few months ago, a nine - year - old boy wrote a letter to his classmates who had insulted him since one day he decided to disguise himself as a princess. I will read them a piece of the letter, which said, "Now I will explain to you what bothers me and angers me, that you make fun of me, that you use nice words of insult, that you write ugly things about me and above all that you laugh at me. All this makes me feel bad, sad, angry and lonely. This is one of the many cases of LGTBI-phobia that was collected in 2016 by the Observatory against homophobia in Catalonia. A case of school harassment in which the child's family and the observatory continue to fight. Reading this letter, I remembered my own childhood. Please remember, ladies and gentlemen, your years of school, that boy who was a laughingstock for being famished or that girl they called a marimacho. This letter, and so many others that we do not know, show how, despite the Minister's talk last week of so much progress, our schools are too often spaces of suffering and harassment for children who do not conform to the normative gender expressions. We cannot allow the spaces of suffering. Suffering in school, office, family or public space for sexual orientation and gender identity must end. This motion seeks to advance in legislative measures that put the means to put an end to the suffering of so many people. To this end, we propose to move towards the adoption of a State law for the rights of LGBTI persons and a specific State law for the rights of trans persons. We think that two different laws are necessary. This has been transmitted to us by the trans collectives who, on the basis of their experience, consider that they have to face specific realities. After silenced trans people for centuries, it is fair to give them the voice and support from Congress the trans law they request. Although several of our autonomous communities have recently passed pioneering laws in these areas, State laws are needed to cover those lawless autonomous communities and to regulate those aspects that are State competence. It is imperative that these laws implement in a real and effective manner the principle of equality and non-discrimination enshrined in the Constitution. To that end, an administrative sanctioning regime should be established that would end impunity for most hate crimes. It is also necessary that the laws contain a gender approach, with specific measures for lesbian, bisexual, transgender and intersex women. We are not tired of saying this, the fight against sexism and LGBTI-phobia goes through the same strategy, an education designed to deconstruct gender stereotypes, an education based on diversity. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u107	Wait a minute, Mrs. García Puig. I beg your silence. It is a matter of listening to the speaker and not to the set of murmurs that are heard in the House at this time. I would beg you to remain silent so that we can attend to what the speaker is talking about. Go on, Mrs. García Puig.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u108	There are several voices in our society that oppose the free choice of sexual orientation and the expression of gender and gender identity. Let us remember, for example, the words of the bishop of Cordoba, who recently affirmed: the more a man is, the better for everyone in the house; the more a woman and the more a woman is, the better for everyone as well. Or the words of the Archbishop of Granada, who indoctrinate us affirming: Christ teaches us to distinguish a potato from a rose and a man from a woman. This very message is the one that preaches the bus of Make You Hear. The social response to the hate bus has been admirable, and this response must fill us with hope. But let us not deceive ourselves; we do not speak only of hate speech without complexes of a few; we speak of the heteropatriarchal gender model, on which our productive and reproductive system is based. This is a model that promotes man-woman binarism, which condemns to suffering all people who are not in accordance with the norm. A sample of this is our administrative and health system. Currently, Law 3/2007 provides that to change gender identity in official records it is necessary to have a diagnosis of gender dysphoria and two years of medical treatment. Our administrative health system denies the free self-determination of gender. We could say that the medical system and the Administration become guardians of this binary system. Using the words of the trans activist Miquel Missé, health is responsible for placing us in separate and isolated boxes: the box of women who like men and the box of men who like women. There is a need for a trans law that legally recognizes gender without medical requirements. Here I would like to address a moment to the Socialist Group, which recently registered a bill to reform Law 3/2007. Although I am late, even if I amend a law that you passed, despite the many trans voices that asked for more, welcome be. But again it's not much less enough. Listen to trans collectives; they demand a specific comprehensive law that addresses much more. I hope you will now be able to hear the voices you did not want to hear in 2007. Collectives fighting for LGBTBI rights have been working on a law for LGBTBI rights and a law for trans people for some time. The time has come for us to collect these initiatives from Congress. From here I would like to appeal to all groups. I want to ask you to live up to the historical moment. We need to understand why we are all here today. This reason is people, and these people ask us. They've made it clear in the last few days. Let no one else suffer because of their sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression. Let us make a policy that will put an end to suffering. Let us all be able to walk safely on the street, let no one feel alone in school, let health be as diverse as people and that all and all of us can love freely. We embrace everything that sexual and gender diversity brings to our society, collect the laws proposed by LGTBI entities, support them and approve them as soon as possible, all groups, without individualities or protagonists. Let us show that when it comes to ending suffering and betting on a diverse and inclusive society, we are above our differences. Let's get a consensus. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u109	Thank you very much, Mrs García Puig. In defence of the amendments made by your groups, Mrs Reyes Rivera is speaking on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u110	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, can you imagine being here today debating the desirability of promoting a specific law to protect the rights of people who prefer red versus blue or sweet versus salt? That would be kind of ridiculous, wouldn't it? When the time comes for us to see a debate such as today's absurdity, it will mean that our society will be better, more advanced, more just. I know that the comparison I have made is not entirely correct, because it refers to the personal tastes of each and, of course, sexual orientation or gender identity is something much deeper, because it is an essential component of the person. Therefore, LGTBI rights in themselves do not exist; there are rights of individuals. What we are talking about here, in fact, is fundamental rights, human rights, the fundamental rights collected and protected by our Constitution. Vulneration of rights by the mere fact that someone is simply what they want to be, what they really are. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the freedom of the individual and that is something that we will always defend from Citizens. As Tocqueville said, democracy seeks equality in freedom and LGBTI people continue to receive unequal treatment: they see their employment opportunities, their opportunities to form a family, to develop themselves personally, and what is even more serious is that these prejudices and discrimination come to manifest themselves often in the form of violence. But, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, it is not necessary to take everything always towards the class struggle, the control of the means of production and, in general, all its Marxist conceptions, as they have done in the text and also in the speech. You take the slightest advantage of trying to bring us back to the 19th century. [[Applauds]] In this case it does not have so much to do with the socio-economic position and it does have to do with the prejudices that are still installed in society, it has to do with intolerance, it has to do with the imposition of patterns of unique conduct, of dogmatic thought, it has to do with the attempt to restrict freedoms. We saw him this week in Berga. The images scare: a group of young people brutally assaults a couple for kissing at the door of a nightclub, for kissing. From Citizens we have tabled an amendment because we consider it necessary to review protocols and awareness-raising measures on hate crimes. We must improve the protection of victims and stigmatize aggressors, put all means in place to ensure that victims find the necessary security when reporting. It is estimated that more than 70% of these attacks are not reported, and the most serious of all is that on many occasions the perpetrators of this violence are very young people; the only one arrested for this weekend's aggression is nineteen years old. Where do we want to go as a society? Let's figure out what we're doing wrong with our kids. Education in equality and tolerance is essential. From here we should put all the means not only to prevent these acts of homophobic and transphobic violence, but also to enable people to develop fully in all aspects of their lives: in the social, in the work and in the personal. Real equality must be a basic pillar, an equality in which the expression of human diversity can never be limited by prejudice. That must be our goal if we really want an advanced society, a society in which there are no debates like these. What I find very curious - I turn again to the authors of this initiative, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos - is that they present a proposal to avoid discrimination which in turn is discriminatory, and it is in two respects. First of all, they are no longer satisfied with plurinationality - Pedro Sánchez already warns of the amendment of article 2 of the Constitution to include it directly - and now introduce the fundamental pluri-rights. That is, that they are different if one lives in Granollers and another in Cuenca. We are talking about fundamental rights. Or isn't it? Please review article 149 of the Constitution and see whether the competence to regulate them lies with the State or the autonomous communities. [[Applauds]] Secondly, they speak of the double discrimination suffered by homosexual, bisexual and trans couples because of their status as women and also because of their sexual orientation, gender identity and expression. We fully agree and it is true that they deserve specific protection, but, ladies and gentlemen, they later speak of the suffering of many lesbian women or transgender people for denying access to assisted reproduction techniques. We totally agree, too, but why don't you mention gay men? It is one of the few cases, but we all know that homosexual men have it even more complicated than homosexual women both to adopt and to resort to an assisted reproduction method. Why don't you even mention it? Maybe they don't want to face...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u111	Mrs. Reyes, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u112	I'm done, Mr. President. Is it because they may not want to face debates like that of surrogate pregnancy? Does that ring a bell? [[Applauds]] That would divide them internally even more than they are. Let us think more about the citizens and not so much about the acronyms. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u113	Please respect your speaking time. And I'll finish it, Mrs. Reyes.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u114	I know this is not the time, ladies and gentlemen, but this debate will come because it is a social reality. Don't discriminate yourselves any more, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u115	For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Cuello Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, may I first of all acknowledge, on behalf of the Socialist Group, thousands of people - men and women, boys and girls - who live in fear, feeling the daily threat of being pointed out, discriminated against, insulted and even physically assaulted by their sexual orientation or gender identity. [[Applauds]] The PSOE has always accompanied the LGTBI movement, meeting its demands and turning its demands into laws. In 1994, with the Government of Felipe González, the Urban Leases Act was adopted, recognizing the right of de facto couples regardless of their sexual orientation. This same socialist Government incorporated the aggravating discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation into the Penal Code. In 2005, the Government of Zapatero adopted the Law on Equal Marriage and drafted Law 3/2007, which regulates the registration of the reference to the sex of persons, allowing, although with its shortcomings, the name of trans persons to be changed in accordance with their gender identity. Ladies and gentlemen, if ten years ago the priority of the collective was to achieve legal equality in the most basic aspects of their civil rights, actions are now required to regulate our system and adapt it to social demands in the search for the current objective, which is real and effective equality. How can we not support this motion if it is a calculation of the proposals that the PSOE includes in its electoral programme? We are pleased with these initiatives, but the Socialist Group has already submitted to Congress a draft amendment to Law 3/2007, so that trans people no longer need any diagnosis or treatment of any kind in order to be able to change the registered sex by bringing it into line with the person's gender identity. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u117	Wait a minute, Mrs. Cuello. I beg your silence, please. I know that when the evening is advancing the murmur is growing, but I will cut as many times as necessary to ask for the proper silence. The person most harmed was the speaker, or the speaker in this case. That is why I ask respect for those who have the floor. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, we have also presented for adoption in this House a comprehensive law on equal treatment and non-discrimination as a general legislative framework against all discrimination, which sets out the instruments to combat it, the assistance and support to those who suffer it, and the redress and sanction mechanism. Socialists believe that education and training programmes aimed at tackling the problem of discrimination are fundamental aspects that should include anti-discrimination laws, because, as Mandela said, no human being is born hating another for their differences; hatred is learned, and if hatred is learned it can also be taught to love. Education in values is essential throughout the educational process in order to create a society free from discrimination in the future. Moreover, we cannot forget the fact that schools are currently, according to the studies, one of the main focus of LGTBI-phobia. We also call on the Government not to open the door to recognition of public utility to those who promote the social exclusion of LGBTI people, which is why our amendment in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, there is difficulty in measuring the magnitude of the phenomenon of LBTBI-phobia and action must be taken on different fronts. On the one hand, protection of victims should be ensured and, on the other, studies on the situation of the LGBTI population and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity should be promoted. To this end, we have put forward several proposals to improve the motion to incorporate these aspects, as I said before, into our electoral programme, in addition to the need for these legislative proposals to promote studies on discrimination against LGBTI people and the historical memory of the struggle of this collective for equality and civil rights. We must urge the public authorities and institutions to activate necessary administrative, educational, labour, health or legal protocols to ensure respect for the sexual orientation or gender identity of each person, with particular attention to discrimination in employment by gender identity that hinders professional and personal development. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Many of the rights acquired by Spanish society were raised before anyone by socialists. The recognition of civil rights is key to strengthening democracy, because human dignity rests on the recognition of those rights, but also on the recognition of economic, social and cultural rights. In that way we will always be socialists. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuello. Mrs Beitialarrangoitia Lizarralde has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u120	Ratsalde on, again. We are witnessing a resurgence of LGBTI-phobic violence in the State by citizens, by individuals, but also by those who have instruments to make themselves heard or by groups with institutional support. Among those who use their ability to send their message to society to attack the rights of these people, I want to make a special mention to the Catholic bishops; that of Alcalá, who through his participation in the master's degree in Marriage and Family Sciences does not cease to launch direct attacks on this group. The bishops of Alcalá and Getafe have signed a pastoral letter against the Law of Transsexuality - I will not qualify it, I think it qualifies itself -, refusing to recognize the self-determination of gender identity as a right that it is. These actions are a clear incitement to hatred, which, although reported, have not been taken into consideration. These events have been accompanied in the last few days by direct attacks by ultra-Catholic and LGBTIphobic groups, such as HazteOir, an organization financed by the People's Party, which, beyond some obstacles to its propaganda acts, continues to act without more drastic measures being taken to prevent its activity. [[The lady]] To all this we could add an endless number of aggressions that come from the institutions themselves and from some political formations that do not act against them, that do not actively defend the most basic human rights on the part of citizens. Fortunately, at the social level, progress is being made in the recognition of all rights for the LGTBI collective. Specifically, in Euskal Herria, although we still have a lot to do - I also want to acknowledge that - there are important progress being made. This is thanks to the work carried out by various groups, who teach us the way to follow the rest. More and more people understand something as simple as what we want for ourselves we must also want for the rest of the citizenry, and I don't care if it's in Euskal Herria or if it's in the rest of the state as a whole. We talk about the need for an integral law of transsexuality that starts from depathologicalizing and humanizing the process of reassignment; a law that not only protects LGTBI collectives but introduces the subject into the educational curriculum - it has been mentioned before and we believe it is an important element - and that provides tools that visibly and amplify all lesbian women. I'm done. This is the way to move towards a society of free people so that they can live their lives as they want to live it, without implying that they have fewer rights than other people. We therefore support this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u121	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mrs Ciuró i Buldó.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u122	Thank you, Madam President. I want to start my speech by condemning the latest attacks on two people in Berga, two gay boys, for having been kissing at the door of a nightclub, a nightclub. Actions like this make us think that there is a long way to go to ensure the rights of LGBTI people. Also recently in Sants there was a conathion of violence against a gay boy for his condition, for the mere fact of being so, because someone felt that it was not right what that boy was. Repulsive actions, actions that cannot have any tolerance and that we use today from this rostrum to lament and condemn. I want to tell you that we are going to support this non-legislative proposal. In fact, in Catalonia, in 2014, we adopted a very ambitious law, precisely to guarantee the rights of LGBTI people; a law that covers many aspects of life, from health to education, to work, to leisure; a law that allows us to hope that a better and tolerant society is possible. It's a challenge to deploy them. It is true that we must continue to make progress in achieving their full deployment, but it is urgent to do so, because it cannot be tolerated that a society that is a victim of intolerance, a victim of social reproach, can cause harm to others simply because it is as it is, because it is only because it loves anyone who wants to grow up. To want is free; to want not to hurt. We want a free society that facilitates the manifestation of the rights of all people and, therefore, as I said, we will vote in favour of this non-law proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u123	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u124	Thank you, Madam President. The motion presented by the Confederal Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea undoubtedly responds to the need to provide a legislative framework with a reality that has no response in the Spanish State, the reality of the LGTBI and trans collective. We understand respect for the dignity of people as a fundamental human right that goes through personal self-determination, which in turn includes the sexual identity of each person, even if it does not coincide with the sex assigned at birth. People in situations of transsexuality, for example, still form a vulnerable group today. Such a condition of vulnerability requires specific public policies to eliminate any discrimination against them in the exercise of their civic rights and responsibilities. In the face of this problem, not only politicians but society, do we give answers? I believe that at least in some places, as is the case in my country, in Euskadi, more advanced answers are given than in other places. Mrs. Reyes, don't get me 149 for everything. In this case, I do not know if it is a State competence and, if it is, does not exercise it, and we do not know if we have it, but at least we carry it out and we make these groups have their rights, we make these people have their dignity publicly recognized. In Euskadi we have a law of our own, Law 14/2012, on non-discrimination on grounds of gender identity and recognition of the rights of transgender persons, which guarantees rights, gives responsibility to administrations and gives coverage and care in the health field. This motion opens this spectrum to lesbians, bisexuals and gays; spectrum that we also have in Euskadi already legislated and fortunately surpassed. In addition, specific programmes have been developed in this area, such as the Guide to Comprehensive Care for Persons in Transgender Situations; a guide which lists, for the first time, the famous dilemma or the very problematic issue of depathology - that is, this is not a disease - and sets out measures in the educational field, in the social sphere, in the health field. It's a fantastic job done by Osakidetza that anyone has the option to see. Ladies and gentlemen, transsexuality is not a disorder, a mental illness or a sociopathy, it is a fact of diversity, another variant of human diversity that can be manifested from the earliest childhood and that in many cases needs coordinated care from the educational, social and health fields. Do you believe that everything is in public affairs, in institutional affairs? The work of the school, of society, is fundamental. The phobias, discriminatory and vehicular attitudes, the situations of harassment, the lack of basic respect in any social sphere, all this does not arise out of nothing. And I ask: what do citizens do on a day-to-day basis so that this does not happen? The rejection of the different is something embedded in the social epidermis that must be banished and changed. The motion's author group has developed a transactional with other groups. We do not too much like the sexed documents that receive so many points because they generate the possibility of discrepancy, when what it is about is to reach basic consensus and not that everyone leaves their signature so that it is noticed. We believe that most of the points are summarized in three basics and even that one can interfere in the area of competence that does not belong to it, such as education. We do not need the educational lines to be marked from Madrid, we will already do them where we belong, because so far it has been shown that we know how to do it, but not because they are marked from Madrid. There is even a point where as fashionable as it is and some bus is pathetic, this is neither the place nor the right motion for it. In any case, speaking of phobias, in this state I have found that there is another phobia that is equally discriminatory and dangerous, such as urnophobia: phobia or rejection of people expressing themselves freely and democratically in order to decide their future in the ballot box. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u125	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u126	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Sonia Rescalvo was kicked to death by seven neo-Nazis in a Barcelona park on October 6, 1991, twenty-six years ago. To this day her killers are on the street and she has a plaque in a gloriette in Barcelona. Alan Montoliu committed suicide on Christmas Eve 2015, a month after he managed to change his DNI. He was seventeen years old and a long history of harassment and suffering. His death was qualified by social murder experts. Xavi Tallón had his eyebrow opened, a piece of his ear ripped out and his lip broken to the cry of Maricones! You fucking faggots! Last night Friday, March 10th. Andy and Jorge were beaten to faint in the cry of what a bad education! And how disgusting! Last night Saturday, March 11th. They ended up in an ambulance on their way to the hospital. His crime is they were kissing in front of a bar. There are four cases, only four, but there are hundreds, thousands, too many for five minutes. Homophobia, biphobia, transphobia, ultimately hatred of gays, lesbians, bisexuals, transsexuals and intersexuals is part of the history of our society. We can deny it, but it is. We can get very serious and very solemn in demonstrations and concentrations as we appeal to the end of these scoundrels or we can fight them relentlessly, and the motion, which as it cannot be otherwise we support, from the companion Maria del Mar García, on behalf of Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, so tries. What is it to fight them relentlessly? For example, do not allow miseries and infamy such as the bus of the shame of that reactionary band of the HazteOir, a people who, apart from having penis or vulva, what it has is very little shame and above all funds and a consideration by the Ministry of the Interior of public entity; a Ministry of the Interior that defends much more national Catholicism and microphones than the defense of freedoms. What is fighting him relentlessly? Eradicate a heteropatriarchal system based on sexism and heteronormality in which women are displayed as a claim, as an advertisement to sell things on this constant farm called capitalism and wild neoliberalism, in which class says that if you are a mother at sixty years old it is good or bad, depending on your sex, your fame or your social class. What is it like to fight him relentlessly? Stop linking normality, whether normal or not, to a certain sexual tendency. The normal thing is not to be straight or the abnormal is to be bisexual, homosexual or asexual; the abnormal thing is to be bad people and the normal thing is to be good people. This should be the case in any healthy society. Freedom is not to control with whom each one dawns, but for what each one dawns. And what is fighting him relentlessly? Above all to legislate, as Catalonia and Euskal Herria have done with the Law on Guarantees of the Rights of Lesbians, Gays, Bisexuals, Transsexuals and Intersexuals; on the Eradication of Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia, creating clear and specific protocols for education and awareness-raising, and a lot more, ladies and gentlemen. I understand, gentlemen of the PP, that maybe all this is too much for you. The only thing I ask you to do is to tell those miserable homophobes called Lion of the Riva, alias'sometimes it makes me notice to enter an elevator with a woman', and David Pérez, alias 'feminists are bitter and failed women', who return to the cave from which they never had to leave. Thank you very much and good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u127	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs. Dueñas Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity is one of the priorities of the Spanish Government in the field of human rights, both in its internal and external policy. As I am aware that much remains to be done to achieve that real equality and to adhere to the national level, I must recall that during the last parliamentary term different measures have been taken to that end. The specific line of IRPF grants for the care of victims of discrimination, hatred and intolerance was introduced for the first time. We developed the map for discrimination, which has served to carry out not only a diagnostic study, but also, in collaboration with the CIS, a profile study. Since 2013, the Ministry of the Interior has been developing a statistical register on hate crimes, a register which in the 2015 report stated that sexual orientation and gender identity continue to be one of the main motivations for recorded hate crimes. It is therefore essential - in this commitment the Government will continue to work - to redouble efforts also in the area of prevention and prosecution through criminal law. In this regard, I should like to recall the reform of the Criminal Code 2015 for criminal prosecution in this area. In the field of work, various initiatives have been launched to ensure and develop awareness-raising activities among Spanish companies in relation to diversity, but I would like to refer specifically to the report presented on 2 March, entitled LGBT people in the field of employment in Spain, a pioneering report in our country which contains important lines of action in the framework of employment, with proposals in the regulatory area, in awareness raising, in training and in the necessary promotion of good practices. In this line we will continue to work, promoting the necessary tools to promote equal opportunities and non-discrimination by LGTBphobia. I want to highlight the blind curriculum. What allows us this format of curriculum is that people's talent, merit, effort, capacity is really valued, and what basically avoids is any kind of discrimination. That's our goal. In the field of education, I have to review the online guide Embracing Diversity: proposals for an education free of homophobic and transphobic harassment. A guide that contains recommendations addressed to the whole educational community and which, I have to say, has already yielded important results. In the area of awareness we developed the campaign I am you, which seeks to avoid the reproduction of stereotypes that generate discriminatory behaviors. The Women's Institute published a guide aimed primarily at people who have suffered discrimination, a synthetic guide that helps professionals and operators working in this area, with absolute respect for autonomous competences, where I would like to recall - some speakers pointed out - that there are already several autonomous communities that have adopted legislative reforms in this area, the most recent two communities governed by the People's Party, Murcia and Madrid last year. At this point, I would like to ask the Catalan MPs of Esquerra, Socialist Party and Podemos to demand that the Generalitat of Catalonia comply with that law that it developed in 2014, the law against homophobia, whose implementation, as announced yesterday by the UGT union of Catalonia, is scarce, if not null. Ladies and gentlemen, this Government and the People's Parliamentary Group not only respect but defend the rights of LGBT people and show their absolute revulsion at any aggression or discrimination of any kind. I beg you, stop thinking that all solutions must go through passing a law; there are multiple instruments, as could be a national strategy. Many of those instruments, which we all share in whole or in part, are reflected in that compromise amendment. Instruments in which the Government of Spain is already working and will develop in the coming years. Look, we're talking about listening. Today, at the Bureau and spokespersons of the Equality Commission, we have unanimously agreed that the Federation of Gay, Lesbian, Transsexual and Bisexual States should appear in the Committee. That is the will of my parliamentary group and the Government to listen, because only by listening can we achieve objectives. And I only ask you one thing, stop flagging social policies as belonging to the left and stop considering people as their property, please stop having a patrimonial sense about something as personal and non-transferable as sexual orientation and gender identity itself. Let us work together, because only from unity in matters like this, with good judgment and not with opportunism, listening and not disqualifying, with respect - the one I have missed in someone else's - I am convinced that we will be able to achieve the objective that we propose today. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by reiterating, on behalf of my parliamentary group, the Government's firm commitment to increase our efforts in this area both nationally and internationally, by promoting measures in collaboration with autonomous communities and cities...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u129	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u130	Yes, Madam President. ... to help raise awareness, improve and achieve this necessary real equality, whether in the fields of employment, culture, health, justice, security or education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u131	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs García Puig whether she accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u132	We have sent a compromise amendment to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u133	Thank you very much. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE POLICIES OF THE MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS TO ENCOURAGE Capture AND RECOVERY OF TALENT IN THE CONTEXT OF BREXIT AND THE PRESIDENCY OF DONALD TRUMP. [[File number 173/000021]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u134	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on policies of the Ministry of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness aimed at promoting the capture and recovery of talent in the context of the Brexit and the presidency of Donald Trump. For the group responsible for the initiative and for the defence of it, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u135	Thank you very much, Madam President. Everything we know about economic development and all empirical evidence indicates that there is a variable more important than any other to explain the success of nations; that variant is called human capital and talent. The nations that care for and take talent seriously are those that have economic growth, those that have sustainable welfare states, those that have lower rates of inequality, those that have lower rates of corruption. In Spain we have a lot of luck because it is a very attractive country for foreigners; we have a very rich culture, we have great gastronomy, we have solid institutions - sometimes - and therefore we are a country with huge opportunities to attract talent. In Citizens we think that Spain should be a paradise for global talent, but the reality is that we systematically fail over and over again in all the indicators of human capital that appear; we are in line in terms of education, in terms of understanding, in terms of economic development and innovation. We therefore have to address this problem. In education - we have said it many times - we have been 40 years in which the PP and the PSOE have been battling. Fortunately, Citizens have opened a dialogue table for that to change. In universities, more of the same; we have an endogamic system that does not favor talent or meritocracy, but ends up favoring some scripts and plagiarizing rectors. We have to address the university problem because we don't have a single university among the top hundred in the world. On the issue of active policies, the same happens to us; they do not take it seriously and drag their feet. We have a long-term unemployment rate of the highest in Europe and policies that fail over and over again. Every year we spend 7 billion on active and training policies and we fail to reintegrate 5% of our long-term unemployed. In innovation, more than the same; they have cut in recent years about 30% in R & D. In Citizens we will continue to insist that you put into the budget the commitment, which is to end the cuts and start a technology transfer program of 500 million euros. The same is true of self-employed and entrepreneurs; we have finally managed to get an emergency law into this House and I believe that you have already stopped putting obstacles in the way of amendments. I hope that they will end by also joining the Citizens' initiative to promote talent and entrepreneurship. They have done exactly the same with startups; so far there were no initiatives in a tremendously emerging sector. Last week we presented to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs an initiative to improve the environment for start-ups and I am pleased that they are also joining that. It's hard to pull the car, but it's important that we do it among all of us. The same is true - this is what this motion came to - of active immigration policies. We must be able to attract talent and generate a system of points, as successful countries have, that rewards talent in order to be more attractive. It has Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore... It is true that we have made some reforms - I used to comment with the spokesman of the People's Party - such as Law 14/2013, but it is true that it has been insufficient and that we have a great deal of road to go in that direction so that we can become a paradise of talent. In addition, a huge opportunity is now opening up in the world and there are a number of countries, some casually talented such as the United States and the United Kingdom, that have decided to close down the world, retreat and implement deeply regressive immigration policies. Let us seize this opportunity, that is the purpose of this motion. We will deal with something for once, if possible, and go out into the world telling all those orphans of the country to start and start their businesses, to continue their research, to bring knowledge to the universities, who are welcome, who we want them in Spain, that we want to lead the race of global talent and not stay behind, as we have done so far. That is the purpose of this motion. Last week Mr De Guindos told us absolutely nothing about the initiatives he intended to propose in this regard. I hope they tell us something else today. In any case - this is the central message I wanted to send - it is time for us to take talent and human capital seriously. Gentlemen of the People's Party, it is important that the government begin to take the nation as it is, an advanced and first-class nation, and stop functioning a little as a provincial deputy, which is what they have been doing so far. In conclusion, I would like to thank all the groups that have tabled amendments for their contributions. We have proposed a compromise amendment that I hope you will like and that all groups in favour of talent will join. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u136	Thank you very much. For the defence of the amendments tabled first by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u137	Thank you very much, Madam President. A socialist initiative was adopted in the Committee on Employment exactly one month ago in line with the great concern generated by emigration, particularly that of those with good training and preparation who have to pack their bags abroad. From the Forum we understand that preventive action must be taken to prevent the migration of our best human resources and this will only be possible by creating the conditions for creating good job opportunities, i.e. maintaining a context of growing competitiveness. This motion has an impact on the promotion of the return of talent, an issue on which it should be noted that programmes and aid have been launched throughout Spain which have so far had a very weak, almost anecdotal result, although a high percentage of Spaniards who have had to go would be willing to return if given an opportunity to do so. As the INE has pointed out, for seven years the Spaniards who, after completing their training, have been engaged in seeking employment opportunities in other countries continue to be a constant. Since 2009, the increase in compatriots who packed their bags outwards has increased to 56.6%, of which 21 % were born in Spain. A substantial part of emigration is made up of young people who have received a great deal of training. Trying to complement the three points of the original initiative, I have tabled an amendment that promotes the creation of a platform composed of the Government, autonomous communities, municipalities, etc. In any case, Madam President, my vote will be in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Xuclà i Costa also has the floor for the Joint Group. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. We are on the last item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u139	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to announce the Democratic Party's affirmative vote on this initiative, which we believe is appropriate, but it is even more so because it has been enriched by the acceptance of the two amendments that we have tabled. It is good to be able to recover those young people who have gone to research or work outside, but it would still be better to develop active policies to retain this talent and to create working conditions that allow researchers with a high training capacity to develop their work in a creative environment in the Spanish State. In the second amendment, we believe that it is also important to speed up administrative procedures for the granting of foreign identity numbers. In this case we are talking about people from third countries who join research teams in Spain, so it is important to speed it up a lot. In the same way that at the time we are presenting an inquiry into the speeding up of visas for investigation, it is also important to take into account the speeding up of the identity numbers of foreigners. Ladies and gentlemen, this phenomenon of globalisation makes a lot of sense, as well as the explanation that highly qualified young people are going to study, to get rich and to acquire knowledge elsewhere in the world is on their own initiative, not because of the lack of working conditions in Spain. I'm done, Madam President. If something seems to us insufficient of this motion is that the title speaks only of the Brexit and the presidency of Donald Trump, because surely the embassies of Britain and the United States must ask themselves why they are the only ones susceptible to this phenomenon when this flight of talent is also occurring in Germany and other European countries. In general, Mr Roldán, congratulations on this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u141	Thank you, Madam President. I want to thank the initiative because the proponent is right to say that both Brexit and Trump's victory will bring us consequences, some negative and others positive. I think that, as it responds very well to the spirit of your initiative, we are going to say that there is no harm in not coming and we are going to see how we analyse the effects of these policies in a positive way. The other day in the Foreign Affairs Committee we saw some of them. For example, we ask that Barcelona be the headquarters of the European Medicines Agency around Brexit and we also analyze a proposal by Citizens about the promotion of Spanish in the United States. You have to face it like this. It is true that Brexit may finally result in us forming a European army and even that the stability that Spain has right now takes advantage of it with the United States to generate greater dialogue. However, we are grateful for the initiative and will vote in favour. In any case, it is true that we are an attractive country, we understand it this way, it is more than 70 million tourists who come to our country and I think it answers that we have an extraordinary image outside. But it is true that we must be able to attract that talent and not only that they visit us sporadically, but that they want to come here and live with us. In that sense we have to be attractive and I would like to point out at least one thing that is important and that is the subject of the language barriers. The United States is going to be the country of the planet in which the most Spanish is going to be spoken within two days and I believe that we, in some way, also need to raise our level of English and that in both languages, which are the best known and most used on social networks, we find among all of us a synergy so that the English-speaking countries and we can take advantage of that same synergy and not that the barriers are, as so far, unfortunately, barriers that must be removed among all of us. In any case, we will vote in favour of the proposal. Nothing more, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u142	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Palacín Guarné has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u143	Thank you very much, President, and good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I must point out that our group was pleased to be able to discuss today an initiative on an issue that we consider to be fundamental and on which we have been working and defending it for several years, such as the return of emigrant talent, as well as the capture of new talent. And we are also grateful to be able to do so almost on a maximum audience schedule as it is now. In discussing the amendment itself, although we can share the intention of the motion, we do not endorse 100% of the proposed measures. That is why we have tabled an amendment which we will now be defending; and we are glad that we have been able to reach a compromise for a broader agreement. Here I would like to make an appreciation of the proposal that the People's Party has brought us with regard to the science pact. I sincerely believe that a measure of this kind should perhaps be dealt with by a particular initiative. But I would also like to recall that in this very house in 2013 a pact for science was already proposed to which the scientific community joined and to which the rest of the parliamentary groups, except the People's Parliamentary Group, also welcomed such a measure with joy. And not only did the People's Party not sign this pact, but the Government cut back on the commitments contained in the Science, Technology and Innovation Act, which, despite being a law passed by a socialist government, had broad support and consensus. It is a law of all and, although it may be a great instrument, it is still undeveloped. And we will have to do an act of faith to verify that the government is truly committed to science, although we know that in science faith does not take place and that the will, in this political case, must be analysed with demonstrable acts. That's why we'll be watching. By entering the motion before us, because of the importance it attaches to the Socialist Party, we understand that the main point of the motion, such as the talent return program or plan, even if it was only for aesthetics, should have more presence in the final text. And I want to say at this point that our group has already registered a non-legislative proposal in this House last September, which is in line with pushing forward a talent capture plan, a shock plan with expectation to capture up to 10,000 scientists, with a concrete cost study and which I hope we can also discuss shortly in this House. As I said before, this motion gave us some doubt that focused on the first two points, which refer to the immigration issue as regards the express entry programme, as well as the reception package. Because, in our view, the current legislation already had authorization systems for highly qualified personnel, researchers incorporated in our legislation by Organic Law 2/2009, as well as authorizations for investors and entrepreneurs, in force since 2013 by Law 14/2013. For this reason and because we believe that the existing framework could already be sufficient, we propose to draw up a preliminary study, drawn up by independent institutions with a trajectory in the field of migration, to make a thorough examination of the current legislation and to tell us what we were doing wrong or what was not working before we proceeded to increase the legislation or these new entry plans. But we also understand that this previous report will help us make the decisions to follow and in any case, if they tell us that we have to go to the express entry programme, because we will abide by it. We must also be aware that the measures we are debating today will have limited consequences if they are not accompanied by others that make our country a much more attractive country for investors and companies who want to settle here, and that the net flight of talent, which we have suffered in recent years, we believe has more to do with how our economy has evolved after the crisis and the opportunities that it is now offering to our young people and our talented people than with the current migration legislation itself, which we do not see as lame. Therefore, to reverse this situation, everything goes through a change; a change that has to be a productive model, that bets on sectors of high added value, promoting quality education, training and again betting on investment in research, development and innovation, because it is the only way to be able to compete in the new global scenario. Otherwise, we will stay behind and also because we can open the door to talent, business or innovation, but as long as our economy is not a future economy adapted to global digital transformation, it will not be attractive, and these measures that we are taking today will fall into a broken bag and will not have the path we all want. I'm just announcing that we're joining the transactional. We will vote in favour and hope that science will have a better route than it has had so far. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u144	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bravo Baena has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u145	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first question we have to raise before this Citizens' motion is whether any of the 350 Members in this Chamber can be against the return of talent. I think it is something unanimous: we are all in favour of the return of talent. The only difference is how we do it. The question that can be asked is whether or not we are going to vote in favour of this transaction that Citizens have presented, together with the amendments of various parliamentary groups. We have to vote in favour, even if we do not share a hundred percent. Very simple, as you say, Mr Roldán, with all due respect, is a plagiarism of what we have already adopted, of Law 14/2013, the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurs and their Internationalization. And let me tell you why. The first thing we should do is get close to that law, read it and see that the first two points we are asked to do, the express entry programme and the reception package, are already regulated, specifically in articles 61 to 76. I'm not commenting at all. Article 62.4: visa with spouse and family members; Article 63: residence visa for investors; Article 69: residence for entrepreneurs; Article 71: highly qualified staff. I believe that in some way what is coming in the initial amendment is already taken up. But, as I am sure that this has not gone unnoticed and that what Mr Roldán is trying to do - and I am convinced that we have spoken about it - is to improve the system, we agree. Mr. Roldán, the other day Minister De Guindos was so correct that he didn't even tell him that this was a copy of what we had already done. However, I believe that you - and allow me to comment - did not do the same. You said: We are in the prehistory of active policies and positive immigration policies, and you have repeated it today. Well, that means that with this measure adopted by the Government of Spain, 33,529 people have been able to join a job linked to these projects. And we have managed to capture more than EUR 2.5 billion, so I believe that what we did is right and that what you are proposing will be right; it cannot be otherwise. [[Applauds]] You also said that in Citizens we will not be allowed to drag this government's feet. Or also - he has said it again today - let him think a little less as a deputy and think a little more as a great nation. From the affection and respect I can sincerely say to a minister and a president of the government who in the worst economic crisis scenario have recovered 1.5 million jobs, or to a minister who has managed to make our growth more than 3% of GDP in recent years, growing above the European average, that our current account balance of payments is above 2% or other similar measures, it seems to me that it is, at least, a little bold on his part. At this point I will be allowed to change the full meaning of my speech, so far critical, as we have heard: something from the Socialist Party, something from Citizens and some other party. We want to offer them a change, because researchers, scientists, investors don't like 'and you more' or 'they're already in political war'. So, we make a proposal: let's get R & D+i out of the partisan confrontation, be able to sign a pact for science and consider it a state agreement. You in the third point also talked about the return of talent that is outside of Spain. We agree, but you have to know one thing: not everything is money, we are not in favour of spending more, but of spending better. I compare it to football: why is Messi or Cristiano Ronaldo not playing in China? Why don't you want the Chinese league competition? Because it is not as competitive as the Spanish one, because it does not have the results of the Spanish one, because it is not as good as the Spanish one. So, scientists, researchers, investors, we have to give them an ecosystem that allows them to have the best league, the best competition so that they want to come not just for money, but because we are better. [[Applauds]] On the positive side, Mr Roldán, I loved a proposal. He says: Let us seize this opportunity. We agree. I am convinced that what you have proposed and what you want to bring is to improve the system. I remind you that Law 14/2013 also contains a final assessment; that is, we have already considered the results of this law, because we are not only satisfied - I'm sorry, Mr Roldán - with doing it, but we want to measure it and we have measured it and not only measured it, but, in that evaluation that has to be done on an annual basis - final provision eleven - we have put in place the measures that we believe we need to correct; and not only that, but that we have corrected them in 2015. We have changed our own law according to our mistakes; we admit it, nothing happens, we have improved the law, with which we have an evaluation that we can have among all. What have we done with regard to visas? For a single permit, reduce deadlines, extend it to families, create a single window, empower entrepreneurs, etc. And in terms of scholarships and grants, what have we done? For we are increasing investments in scholarships, both in the Youth Guarantee Plan and in the predoctoral scholarships that we have increased in amount and to four years of contract, not to two and two, but to four. In addition, we have also obtained the Ramón y Cajal and Juan de la Cierva scholarships. I'm done with this. You know what that means? In 2016, 4,854 researchers will benefit directly and €704 million have been invested in grants and €813 million in Chapter 8. I think that's betting on R+D+i. We are grateful for the effort you have made to accept our amendments and this compromise, and I believe that among all of us this pact for science will enable us to achieve what scientists really want. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u146	Thank you very much. At the time of the fixing of positions, I have the floor, by the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u147	Thank you, Madam President. [[Rumors]] Gabon. Good night.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u148	One second, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please. [[Rumors]] Please, the ones who are standing at this moment when I'm saying to keep quiet, are they still talking? [[Rumors]] Your Honor, don't you have ears? [[Pause]] It seems to me a total lack of respect that because there are ten minutes left before the end of the plenary, your honor has less respect than it has for the rest of the ladies and gentlemen who speak at four o'clock in the afternoon. Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u149	Thank you. Over the past decades, the concept of competitiveness has marked the horizon of the strategic agendas of almost all political parties and governments, of the economy in general, although at times this concept has not been properly understood nor sufficiently analysed nor applied. Production, organization and marketing models are changing, especially with penetration into international markets, advanced manufacturing, intelligent management and new products and services. In this sense, if we want to face this transformation with guarantees and maintain competitiveness as an economy and as a society, it is necessary that as a territory, among other things, we work to attract and retain the new talent, determining it to introduce value and innovation to the productive system. According to Michael Porter's definition, a nation or region is competitive in that the companies operating in it are able to compete successfully in the global and local economy while maintaining and increasing the wages and living standards of citizens, generating an integrated and properly aligned space around a unique and differentiated strategy. Cities and regions not only compete for talent, but also act as leaders who define new ways to develop, attract and retain talent. Cities and regions, as globally competitive and locally relevant, not only attract external knowledge, but also identify new roles and opportunities for themselves in that global economy. Economic growth must be seen as a necessary aspect in order to advance social transformation. Globalization must arise from the need for companies to increase their degree of internationalization, from the need to attract and retain talent, from the need for the territory to be an attractive space for global investors and from the need to consolidate business decision-making centres committed to the future of the territory and its citizens. Having said that, recognizing that within this transformation human capital is an essential ingredient for economic growth in the knowledge society, regions that want to boost innovation and the development of their economies need to have a skilled, well-educated workforce with the right skills and skills. Therefore, of course, we are interested in reflecting on the challenges of talent, especially as an engine of competitiveness, but I would like to point out that, despite this, the motion put forward refers to concrete actions, such as an express visa or reception packages, which, while they may be measures to be applied, seem to be carried out without taking into account the specific context of the territory, without using any tools, such as a DAFO or an index of competitiveness of talent by cities, which allows us to measure the strengths of each country or region, as well as its weaknesses in order to be able to anticipate the challenges and needs of the coming years, especially because economic activity and productive transformation are conditioned by the territory in which it takes place. That is why it is important to know it well, for the strategies and policies that are designed at higher levels, but that affect that territory, and for the possible strategies or actions that from the same territorial level are intended to be implemented. It is good to talk about Silicon Valley, Brexit or Canada, but we need to take into account the reality of our territory and know the pillars of the economy and the value-added sectors in order to be able to implement concrete measures and actions that promote economic growth through that talent. Attracting and retaining a specific category of qualified persons, in addition to in a region, begins by understanding the reasons for establishing or leaving it, as well as the perception they have of the qualities and defects of that region and this is not only achieved by having an express visa or a reception package. Creating and activating talent also requires understanding or understanding the reasons for continuing training and undertaking, such as work in the labour market, professional opportunities, working conditions, quality and living conditions, accessibility, public transport and telecommunications infrastructure, natural and environmental wealth - ultimately, environmental sustainability -, opportunities for leisure, culture, social interaction and personal well-being, image of the region, public perception of the region. In short, what value proposition will be offered to create and retain talent, which can also come from different countries? How are you going to relate to those people? How are you going to contact them and send them that proposal of value so that they at least consider the idea of establishing themselves or staying? The attraction and retention of talent requires, in addition to a coordinated set of policies - economic growth, sectoral development, education, science, labour and tax legislation - and above all coordination between management and business. For all that, it is necessary to carry out an analysis, a diagnosis for each region in order to be able to implement concrete measures that are effective and efficient for the future not only to attract and retain talent as a key to competitiveness, but also to weave networks of work and promote a single system of continuous collaboration between different public and private actors. And let me tell you that you don't have to go to Silicon Valley or anywhere. We can look closer, for example to Euskadi, where we have a strong ecosystem for retaining and attracting talent. I do not want to miss the opportunity to tell you that on some occasion it has been mentioned that there are measures that have already been taken. Why repeat them again? Isn't it time to analyze whether they are efficient or effective? Why isn't Spain among the top positions in this competitive ranking? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u150	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, I have the floor, Mrs. Surra Spadea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the explanatory statement that the Citizens' Parliamentary Group is trying to convince us to approve a motion resulting from urgent questioning is part of a misdiagnosing of the world situation and of a subjective basis for immigration laws. More than an attempt, which could be positive, to capture international talents, this motion seems to attempt to propose special measures so that some, the usual brothers-in-law, may violate the disastrous and sadly famous Aliens Act. It is a law that should no longer exist for anyone and that we should, here and now, change. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group avoids fully amending the Aliens Act, which we suffer from, and in return proposes to us, for friends, speed up entry, eliminate difficulties in acquiring a permanent residence permit and, above all, speed up family reunification. Wasn't the law the same for everyone or here are some who are more equal than others? With this motion they are in fact recognizing that most of the migrants who are already in the country face cumbersome, long and costly procedures, in order to be able to comply with this famous law. But they do not want to change it for everyone, but - I repeat - for friends. It is a classist attitude, depending on the income or training of some immigrants to the detriment of others. Without going further, in the absence of Syrian refugees, neither the Government nor the Citizens' Parliamentary Group tried to speed up entry, even for those with a high educational level, who offered a business project, nor proposed incentive systems for international students of excellence. They would have taken a big surprise if they had found out the level that most of those people have. And to conclude, I will refer to the so-called talent return program, aimed at the Spaniards who left for lack of opportunities and who found work outside. Don't think they're going to come back, because they know very well that there are millions of unemployed in Spain, and that has no solution because the recession that comes in 2017 is going to be tremendous, even if it is denied by those responsible for the Spanish political economy. They will not come back with nice statements, but when they really see in practice that the Government invests in research, development and innovation, both in universities and in the country's research centres. Finally, for all the above, and much more than we have left behind, because we are not going to extend, we will not vote in favour of this motion, but we will not vote against it either. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u152	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Martínez Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Before I enter into the content of this motion, I would like to suggest that when we discuss these issues we leave behind prejudices and stereotypes. I have read the motion and listened to the speeches, and it seems that there is only talent in American universities or Western companies, but there are data that indicate that 36% of Syrians and 21% of Syrians have higher degrees, and some would fall into the definition of what we are talking about today, foreign talent. Many of these people are trapped in refugee camps in eastern Europe and others are trapped in bureaucratic labyrinths in European countries. In Spain, we also have documented cases of African university professors admitted to CIE. What do I mean by that, ladies and gentlemen? That the world is full of human and professional talent waiting for us to give it a chance. What we are discussing today is a system of first and second migration that clearly violates the principle of equality of all people. For example, we are talking about speeding up family reunification. Why not defend it for all the people who work in Spain? Why do engineers and executives deserve it more than women who take care of our elderly people, our sons and daughters, and clean up our crap? Do you really think these jobs don't bring society? [[Applauds]] We women stopped on March 8 precisely for this, so that our contribution to society can be recognized. These women are taking on a job that we Spanish women stop doing when we enter the labour market, and they are essential because society and men do not assume their share of co-responsibility in this fundamental task for life. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that you certainly deserve, at least, the same facilities as you have for the executives today. [[Applauds]] In fact, what they are proposing today is a new version of the so-called Beckham Law, which gave tax facilities to attract scientific talent and which ended up benefiting the elite athletes, all men, by the way. The measures of your initiative are designed for a small number of people, company records and consultants who will have a minimal impact on the economy. They're setting Silicon Valley as an example. The reality is that we don't have any Silicon Valley in Spain and, at this point, we'll never have it. No incentive policy, none, will work without a structural reform of the Spanish production system, without industrial R & D+i policies that will promote high-value-added sectors. I wonder, where are we going to put all this talent?, in universities and research centers for the ministry in charge to change the terms of the contract without warning, or programming twelve hours a day at 800 euros? It is not a talent problem; it is a problem of lack of decent professional opportunities. Talent is enough for us, so much so that those who have it go away or stay in Spain occupying jobs below their qualification. Mr Roldán, I have to tell you sincerely, I am puzzled by the assertion of your motion, and I quote: high-level professionals are attracted to the climate, landscape and quality of life of our country. Forgive me, but that will be in the worlds of Yupi, because in the real world, what people seek when they emigrate is a stable employment contract, a remuneration according to their qualifications and adequate conditions to perform their work. [[Applauds]] This, in Spain, is science fiction thanks to the labor policies that your party promotes and supports. Of course our group is in favour of attracting talent, facilitating the processes of the people who want to settle in our country, the return of the emigrant talent - by the way, in our program we specify measures much more concrete than they do in their motion -. And, of course, we support a pact for science, but we are not going to support your motion because it is ethically questionable, because it is elitist, because it is little concrete in terms of the return of emigrant talent and, above all, because it is unusable to keep the R & D & I cuts consolidated with the spending ceiling that you have signed with the People's Party and the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] Without measures that lead us to a productive model of high added value, without a policy that ensures decent and quality jobs, we will never be attractive enough as a country for all the talent in the world. Thank you very much. [[applause of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u154	Thank you. I ask Mr Roldán Monés whether he accepts some of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u155	Yes, we have proposed a transactional that has seen all the groups and already signed it.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u156	Thank you very much. The vote will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u157	We begin the voting. We are voting, first of all, on proposals for legislation. In particular, the proposal for a law of the Joint Parliamentary Group amending Law 1/2000 of 7 January on Civil Procedure, which regulates a specific procedure to ensure the possession of property owned by owners of natural persons and to ensure that social entities and public administrations have the availability of housing intended for social rental. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 336 plus 2 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 175 plus 1 telematics vote, 176; against, 161 plus 1 telematics vote, 162.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u158	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u159	We then proceed to vote on the proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies for the regulation of interest groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 plus 2 telematics votes, 338; 270 plus 2 telematics votes, 272; against, 2; abstentions, 64.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u160	The proposed reform of the Regulation is therefore taken into account.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u161	Let us now proceed to vote on the text of the non-legislative proposals. Proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the repeal of Law 23/2013 of 23 December, regulating the sustainability factor and the rate of revaluation of the social security pension system. We voted on its own terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 172 against, 132 abstentions, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u162	The proposal was therefore approved. [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on Building A SPECIFIC PROTOCOL FOR THE SUBJECTS OF INTERNATIONAL SURRECTION OF CHILDREN. [[File number 162/000364]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u163	We then proceeded to vote for the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning the elaboration of a specific protocol for cases of international abduction of minors. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the People's, Socialist and Citizens' Parliamentary Groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 269 abstentions, 68.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u164	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u165	We shall continue with the votes on the motions. Firstly, the Socialist Parliamentary Group's motion on the policy that the Government intends to adopt with regard to the recruitment model for predoctoral research staff. We will vote on it in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the People's, Socialist, Confederal Group of the United People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes; 337 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u166	The motion was approved. [[Applauds]] - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may, in common, on the situation of discrimination against LGBTI persons, especially women. [[File number 173/000020]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u167	We then proceed to vote on the motion following urgent questioning by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, on the situation of discrimination against LGBTBI people, especially women. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Ciudadanos y de Esquerra Republicana. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 335 votes in favour, 205 against, 1 abstention, 129.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u168	The motion was approved. [[Applauds]] - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE POLICIES OF THE MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS TO ENCOURAGE Capture AND RECOVERY OF TALENT IN THE CONTEXT OF BREXIT AND THE PRESIDENCY OF DONALD TRUMP. [[File number 173/000021]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u169	We then proceed to vote on the motion of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the policies of the Ministry of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness aimed at promoting the capture and recovery of talent in the context of the Brexit and the Presidency of Donald Trump. The vote was taken on the compromise amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, Socialists, Citizens and Mixed. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 255 against, 1 abstentions, 81.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-14-CD170314.u170	The motion was approved. [[Applauds]] The meeting was suspended. It was nine and fifteen minutes of the night.
