ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We continue with the point relating to the debate of the entire bill of the General Budgets of the State for the year 2017. It is then up to the Joint Parliamentary Group, whose members will defend their respective amendments or, if necessary, set their positions, at this stage. In addition, they will all accumulate in this turn their replica time. First of all, Mr Bel Accensi is speaking. [[Rumors]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u2	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are here to assess the first budget of the People's and Citizens' Party that is being presented in this House. I will try to stick to strictly talking about budgets, figures and items so that we can contrast with reality. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u3	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u4	From our point of view, despite being the budget of Citizens and the People's Party, it is a continuous budget. It follows a line of continuity with the last five budgets that have been submitted. As you can see, if you did not have our support in the previous five, you will not have it this time either; on the contrary, we are presenting this amendment as a whole. You said yesterday that this is a transitional budget to keep the course. However, we listened to the spokesman for Citizens that this is the budget for the change of direction. I'm more with you than the citizen spokesperson. [[Rumors]] This is a budget to maintain its course, but obviously its course is not ours. It is a continuous budget and, like the previous five, it is a budget for constant non-compliance. Since they are budgets that are born with a desire to fail, they will obviously not count on our support. I will try to sustain these breaches in six major aspects that I believe we will understand. [[Rumors]] First, this budget is going to fail to meet the deficit targets. You're going to fail them like the previous five have failed them. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u5	One second, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u6	Thank you, President. Neither the central government target of 1.1% nor the social security target of 1.4% will be met. They have not been fulfilled in the last five years and are not going to be fulfilled now. We are analysing the budget of the Central Administration and Social Security, not the budget of local corporations and the budget of the Autonomous Communities. They plan to reduce the deficit by 1.23%, when over the last few years they have only been able to reduce the average by 0.8%. They are therefore not going to do so and they are not going to do so essentially because the revenues are overestimated. This is an opinion shared by the governor of the Banco de España and the president of the Airef, who state that the revenues by IRPF and by social contributions are overvalued. Therefore, today you and Citizens would have to go up here to tell us what taxes you are going to go up or what cuts you are going to make if the forecast of the Governor of the Banco de España and the President of the Airef is fulfilled. Second block. As much as you insist, these budgets do not meet the Autonomous Communities or local corporations. One more year, no trace of a new autonomous financing system, no new financing system for local corporations, no euro in this budget. There is a committee of experts, but four years late, Mr Montoro. They cannot say that they are complying with the autonomous communities because there are an additional 5 billion. These additional 5 billion would be in the autonomous communities regardless of whether there were budgets or not, because you are going to comply with the Lofca, a Lofca out of date in the funding system in four years, but which you must comply with. So don't cheat. They are not doing any grace to the autonomous communities by adding 5 billion, nor by adding 1612 million more to Catalonia for the liquidation of the 2015 financial year; they are complying with the law, and this law has to comply with it equally with budgets or without them. Minister, don't call us the FLA anymore; don't say that the FLA is a financing system, because the FLA is a treasury system. The FLA for Catalonia is a liability, it is a debt; the FLA for the State is an asset. [[Applauds]] They say they lend us cheap, but they lend us more expensive than you fund. Therefore, this is not a merit, Minister, it really is not. We continue to talk about non-compliance with local corporations. Yesterday I didn't hear you talk about a new funding system for local corporations. I know there is a Committee of Experts, but it is good that it is made clear here. What are you doing with the local corporations this budget? Additional provision 92a, rephrase it. It is restricting the ability of local corporations to invest the surplus generated in 2016, limiting it to making investments in 2017. This budget is to be approved on 30 June; there is no capacity. Correct, Mr Montoro; rectify, gentlemen of Citizens. Third block. This budget of the People's Party and Citizens' Party is not in compliance with Catalonia and is not in compliance with the Catalans. I will give you examples, Minister. You said that there would be a flood of investments and that investments in Catalonia would go up a lot compared to those executed. With regard to last year's budget, these investments are reduced by 2.5%, but that is not the worst, the worst is what they are financing these investments in the 2017 budget. I give you some examples that you put as an asset of the budget yesterday - proximity, Mediterranean corridor, etc. -, specific items, specific cases and specific figures. Mediterranean Corridor in the province of Barcelona: in 2016 it assumed 25 800 000 euros. Do you know how much he executed? He executed 4,600,000. Do you know how much he stopped running in 2016? He stopped running 21 130 000. One might think that this was going to be budgeted for this year. No, they stopped implementing EUR 21 130 000 last year and this year they are planning EUR 4 250 000. They're not even financing what they stopped running last year. [[Applauds]] The other big bet last year, close to Barcelona: 23 500 000 euros. Do you know how much they executed? They executed 4 million euros, stopped executing 19 million euros and now say they are going to budget 64 million. Vandellós-Tarragona, one way, knows all of Spain. Do you know how much they budgeted last year? They budgeted EUR 124 million. Do you know how much they executed? They executed EUR 35 million; they stopped executing EUR 89 million. The budget for the rain of millions in Catalonia stops implementing last year 89 million euros and this year they budget 75, Minister. [[Applauds]] Do you think you can look Catalans in the face and tell them that this is a budget that meets Catalonia and Catalans? Another example, the south enlargement of the avenues of the port of Barcelona, with 26 million in 2016. They run EUR 3 900 000. Do you know how much they stopped running last year? They left 22 million outstanding. Do you know how much this year is included in this game? They include EUR 19 million. This year they are not budgeting or what they stopped executing last year, which was a misery and did not meet any of the parameters that can be understood in Catalonia. And so we could continue. Another very significant fact. The entire business public sector in Catalonia had to invest 992 million euros. They invested 412, stopped investing 580 and now tell us that as budget 889 meet Catalonia. They don't comply with Catalonia. The dialogue operation, if ever existed, with these budgets has ended. [[Applauds]] There is no President Rajoy, but I would like to ask you a question: President Rajoy, would you be able with these budgets to go to Barcelona and repeat the act he did three weeks ago in that city looking into the eyes of all the businessmen and all the Catalans in the room? Impossible. These budgets do not allow Mr Rajoy to return to Barcelona to try to repeat an act of these characteristics. It does not comply with the financing of the Generalitat, with the financing of the municipalities of Catalonia and it does not comply with the pensioners of Catalonia. Yesterday I heard him say: The budget meets Catalans because pensions are paid in Catalonia. Pensions are paid in Catalonia and Catalan pensioners are going to collect pensions not thanks to Citizens or the PP or this budget, but thanks to pensioners who have been contributing for many years and who have won them, because there is a Pension Act and, with or without a budget, they must collect pensions. Haven't you been collecting pensions for these five months when there hasn't been a budget? Don't fool yourself, Minister. This is not a budget that meets Catalonia or Catalans. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u8	Fourth block. It is not in line with the commitment of social spending. Two examples. Citizens say: Here are 100 million more for dependency than in the previous year. Indeed, 100 million, 8.2%. Citizens, do you know how much the dependency budget was increased the previous year, with the absolute majority of the People's Party? It increased by 75 million. Do you believe that the problem of dependency is 100 million or 25 million more than you add? That is not the problem; the problem is that at the moment the Generalitat of Catalonia is taking up 80% of the funding of the Dependency Act, when it should have taken up only 50%. Child poverty, EUR 342 million; exactly the same, items that were already included in the budget or are financed by European bodies. They also do not comply with the productive sector, especially SMEs. I will give you some data: programme 433.M, support for SMEs, minus 14.6%; programme 432.A, international trade promotion, minus 13.8%; programme for the coordination and modernisation of tourism, minus 3.1%. The self-employed. No trace of the autonomous in this budget, however, Castor is costing all taxpayers EUR 15.7 million each year. [[Applauds]] Finally, Mr Montoro, comes the novelty of this budget - and I finish - which must be a novelty that the new partner, Citizens, brings, because in the other budgets he did not do it. This budget does not fulfil the mandate of this Parliament. Over the last few months, many resolutions have been adopted in this House and in the Committees of this House that have had to be reflected in this budget. This doesn't work. The N-240 is not duplicated, between Lleida and Borges Blanques; the Montroig promenade is not made or the AP-7 bonuses are carried out in Tarragona; there are no actions in the vicinity of Barcelona or in the N-II in Girona, nor is the VAT on funeral services, nor the VAT on veterinary services, nor the VAT on cinema. They are all proposals approved by this House and which, in these budgets, you and the Citizens' Lords are in absolutely novelty. The only novelty of these budgets is that they dare not comply with the mandates of this House. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Montoro, today I woke up with the hangover of your speech. This is not the debate we should be doing, ladies and gentlemen. Today we should not be talking about budgets as if nothing had happened, as if we had not witnessed an attempt to rape the democratic state, to break it with repeated, gross and obscene attempts at interference by the executive power in the judiciary, of attempts to manipulate prosecutors investigating the corruption of the government party. This and the police use of the state apparatus to investigate parties in Catalonia is the most serious thing that has happened to this democracy in years; the most serious thing. We should not be having this debate today. Today, if we had a minimum of dignity, if we really wanted to be useful to this country, we would not continue to tear our clothes in the chatter or ask for appearances. Today we should be talking about a motion; I don't care what it is about Podemos, the PSOE or who it is, but about a motion to remove this truffled party from government corruption. However, today we will follow the script planned, we will discuss the budgets and some will press the yes button and others will press, yes, very worthy, the no button, but in the end everything will continue as until now, with the PP ruling. That's how they put them on Mariano Rajoy; that's how they put them on Mariano Rajoy. As Julio Iglesias said, life will remain the same. Indeed, life will remain the same for the vast majority of citizens and for the vast minority of privileged people, because these budgets will not change their lives, especially the majority. You admitted it yourself, Mr Montoro, when you said that these are not going to be the seventh sky of budgets. You always use the same mantra: economic growth and job creation. But in the face of its mantra, repeated a thousand times to satiety, there is a reality, a pure and harsh reality, a daily reality, a reality of every day of the people who are still out there, which is the clear, tangible and manifest decline in total hours worked in 2016; the decline in the working population; the decline in the pension hole - 50 billion have been polished in all its legislatures, 15 000- remain; the decline in unemployment coverage - leave out 45 % of the eyelids -. Another hard reality: increase in foreign debt, 33 billion last year, we again exceed 100% GDP; more unjust distribution of income and wealth of the European Union; more inequality; continues the trade deficit, 19 billion in 2016. And I give you one last piece of information: although they presume to create jobs, the jobs that are created are basically seasonal in nature. Today, when we know the data, we will know that the job will have gone up; obviously, with the Holy Week contracts, but then they will go down again, and so on. You have managed with your reforms to make appear a new class, the class of the poor worker, who despite working does not arrive at the end of the month. That's for not talking about income or deficit, which never, never, ever, in their budgets have been right. These are other figures you didn't mention yesterday. Finally, the breakdown of the deficit of 3.1 shows one more injustice. The state, without competence in health, education or social services reserves most of the deficit, 80%, and leaves only a few small crumbs to the autonomous communities and nothing to the municipalities. By the way, 7 billion have the municipalities that cannot mobilize to create jobs. When is this going to end, Mr. Montoro? And now we're going to talk about budgets in what affects us as Valencians. You said that these budgets were not the seven plagues of Egypt and immediately came to my head a plague that plagues the Valencian palm trees: the red picket. I had brought some, but I left them in the office. The pick is inserted into a healthy palm tree and corrodes it from the inside. The sting is a terrible plague for the palm trees. The People's Party has been and is a terrible plague for the Valencians. For twenty years they ruled our land and parasitized it with the voraciousness of a red larva, and all, all, their budgets have been a catastrophe for Alicante, for Castellón and for Valencia. They have been unjust, devastating, but, Mr Montoro, above all they have been partial, manifestly partial. There are no objective criteria for why they make an expenditure, why they make an investment in one site and not in another. Why? What criteria do you follow? Why are other investments delayed years and years and years? Mr Montoro, tell me, what criterion has you followed to invest 119 euros per inhabitant in Valencian territory, being as it is an autonomous community poorer than the average - and you know it - and 405 in another with a higher per capita income? And this happens one year and another and another, in all their budgets. Mr Montoro, what criteria have you followed to give 126 million to metropolitan transport from Madrid and zero euros to Valencia or Alicante? Mr Montoro, what criteria have you followed to invest EUR 329 million in close proximity to Madrid and only one in Valencia or EUR 300 000 in Alicante? Mr Montoro, what criteria have you followed to recognise that the Basque Country has paid an additional 1400 million in recent years, since 2007, when it is unable to recognise the 14 billion underfunding of the Valencian Autonomous Community from 2002 to 2015, knowing that our level of per capita expenditure is 12% lower than the average - much lower than that of the Basque Country - and knowing that our per capita income is 12% lower than the Spanish average? Mr Montoro, you have been able to negotiate the Basque quota in two weeks and have been unable - unable - to approve a new financing system in six years - in six years. They had absolute majority, and they didn't. Where does Spain break up, Mr Montoro? I will tell you: Spain is broken by the Ministry of Finance, it is broken by its budgets. I'm done. The Valencian Courts unanimously adopted - and when I say unanimously, I say People's and Citizens' Party - an institutional declaration of rejection of these budgets. All the parties, the whole of Valencian society, share this which our Courts have approved. Compromise will be consistent with our Parliament. And I address the Valencian parliamentarians of the PP and Citizens: Will you approve this cut in the quota? Are you going to approve these shame budgets for the Valencians? Who will you serve, the Valencians or your own party? In Compromís we are very clear: we will be loyal to the interests of the Valencian people; we will vote for a non-rotundo to general budgets that insult us as a people. I'm done with two sentences, the first of Ovidi Montllor: They don't feed us soft anymore. They don't feed us crumbs anymore, Mr. Montoro. And another of the great poet Vincent Andres Estelles: There will be a day when we can no longer and then we can all, Mr Montoro, we can all. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u11	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u12	Egun on, good morning. Supporting the budgets of the People's Party means not addressing the different crises facing the State - economic, social, institutional - and continuing to deepen the consequences of these, generating more inequality, poverty, unemployment and precariousness, because supporting these budgets is giving the government a blank letter to continue making cuts in social spending, as well as consolidating those already achieved. And it is that since the arrival of the People's Party to the government, in five years, social spending, minus that allocated to the payment of pensions, has decreased by 27%, 19 billion euros, the same percentage that will be allocated in the 2017 budget to the payment of the debt. Therefore, supporting these budgets also means continuing to put the payment of the debt ahead of the needs of social policies and this brings with it cuts in social matters. In the absence of a fiscal reform that allows for a more progressive and equitable taxation, that tackles tax fraud and allows for the resources needed to put the needs of society at the centre of public policies, the payment of debt takes the resources necessary to implement other policies. Far from betting on moving to another socio-economic model that allows for progress in social justice, betting on sustainable social development of the economy, supporting these budgets means continuing to protect speculative and financial capitals, to the detriment of the social majority and especially of those who are suffering the most from the consequences of the crisis and the anti-social policies of the Government. And it is that by allocating huge amounts to debt, cutting social spending, following the austerity policies of Europe, the Government, in addition to not responding to the social reality of the population, is being a generator of greater inequalities; it does not bet on the creation of quality employment as well as destroying public employment. Those who support these budgets will be made responsible for giving them a blank cheque to further deepen this. The data on unemployment, precariousness, inequality, poverty and wage gaps are a direct consequence of their policies, policies which, through these budgets, the Government wants to continue to implement. They offer us a black-and-white picture that some of us are committed to changing: benefits reach only 55% of the unemployed; the risk of poverty or social exclusion is almost 30%, rising to almost 49% for the unemployed; the State has one of the highest rates of temporaryity in Europe; part-time work falls in most cases on women, who do not receive the minimum necessary to lead a dignified life, while they continue to take on much of the unpaid work of care, which is so necessary for society. The net employment data created tells us that what is really happening is that the same work is being distributed among more people, that is, there is a distribution of precariousness and therefore impoverishment of the working classes. Youth, with a state unemployment of more than 40%, suffer from a temporaryity of 85%. Half of pensioners earn less than EUR 700, and women, on average, 40% less. They also see how the reforms that have been carried out seek the objective of reversing the trend and gradually reducing the amounts of new pensions and thus overall expenditure on pensions. I could continue to give many other data that show us that following this path leads to an uncertain future for the vast majority and will not bring the stability that they say would imply the approval of the budgets, unless - that is - they are thinking about the stability of the big companies and the capitals. They can be calm, because the Government is making overly optimistic estimates of revenue and, if it does not meet another year, will bring new cuts and will try to collect more indirect taxes, even if this increases inequality. The Government is not prepared to make a necessary increase in fiscal pressure bring the Spanish State closer to the most advanced European countries, making the increase support it by those who have the most, with the dual aim of collecting more and also making progress in the redistribution of wealth. Far from doing so and acting against tax fraud, it will continue to deepen a more and more regressive tax burden distribution; it will not solve the problem of lack of income and it also has a wrong policy of priority spending. Therefore, supporting these budgets also means continuing to spend more on defence and less on equality, continuing to rely on an energy system that ensures the benefit of large companies, penalising self-consumption, denying a decentralized system that relies on renewable energies. Moreover, they will continue to fail to provide solutions to the harsh reality of the 5 million households suffering from energy poverty. It means continuing to bet on squandering billions of public at high speed, abandoning the nearby train, the one that people use. It supposes to bet on a model of development bent on the construction of roads and lines of AVE as an engine of enrichment from which they then pay important commissions to the PP, according to the judicial investigations. Because to support these budgets is also to whitewash the most corrupt party in Europe, the PP, which does not devote any part to historical memory, while burying with honors the Franco General Sanjurjo; the PP, which denies us Basques and Catalans the right to decide our future, the same PP that hinders any progress in peace and normalization. In short, the PP, which makes us increasingly the Basques that we think Euskal Herria cannot remain bound to this State, that wants to decide its future, that wants others not to decide what is the calculation of the amount it has to pay unilaterally and interestedly; a State that does not respect the decisions of the Basque institutions. The government spokesman said that with the agreement that will allow them to draw these budgets, the Spaniards will win. Let me doubt it. In any case, they will not win the Basques, which we do want another different socio-economic and political model. We have no other way but to build a free, democratic and just state to assert our rights, and these budgets are quite the opposite. We must break - and this is the end of it - this perverse dynamic, in which the party in the government only dialogues when it is in a minority and acts to the detriment of our interests systematically when it has a majority for it, forgetting what it had agreed on the day before. It is time to act with country vision, to make us stand up, to play big, to stop playing small, and for that the first thing to do - that is what Euskal Herria Bildu will vote - is to return these budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and everyone. New Canarias presents this amendment to the full refund under special circumstances that had never been given. Involuntarily we have become the object of the greatest media attention, a kind of ephemeral glory that must be properly managed; and it will not be by our will, but by the correlation of forces in the House. As I have little time to develop things completely, Minister, I have to point out to you that from the New Canarias point of view it seems to us extremely important that you take it into account. Firstly, the responsibility for the budget lies with the Government of Spain and not with this Member who speaks to them. In fact, the famous Member 176 is not unfortunately the one who talks to you, the Member 176 is you, Mr Montoro; on whom it depends whether or not the budget is yours. I told you when I had the opportunity to talk to you and I repeat it to you from this rostrum. I must also remember that Nueva Canarias, with the limited strength he has, bet on political change in Spain. When time passes they already know that the myth begins to replace the reality about who is to blame for the fact that there is still a president of the People's Party. That's something that everyone will have to explain when it comes to. We cannot rely on the policies of the People's Party because over six years they have mistreated the Canary Islands; that is what we have expressed and demonstrated in this rostrum. That is why we are voting against Mr Rajoy's investiture and that is why we are presenting this amendment as a whole. I thank you, Minister, for saying something yesterday with what I completely agree with you, for a change: the community most affected by the crisis has been the Canary Islands. Thank you. If there is an opportunity to correct this abuse, considering that New Canarias is not part of the Government of the Canary Islands, as some defend Spanish patriotism, this House does not suffer from some canary patriotism. I'm sure you understand us and when you pass through the Canary Islands you'll see how you'll explain it to yourself better than I explain it to you. In relation to the general budget line, the same wrong direction: live the debt and bad for people; let people pay it, let people pay it. This is a budget in the same line of continuity with the previous wrong policies; a sustained response to benefit the strong and weaken the weak; a commitment to economic growth through internal devaluation, loss of labour rights and social rights at the expense of people's salaries and in addition an unequal effort between administrations, effort for local administrations and relaxation for the General Administration of the State. We fully endorse what the representative of the Socialist Group put forward yesterday in his amendment to the whole of this matter. In the Canary Islands we are tired of explaining to you why the Canary Islands has not been respected in its own right and has been mistreated budgetaryly year after year. The loss of convergence with the Spanish State since 2000 is reflected in the fact that we have gone from having a GDP of 97.7% of the state average to 85%. We have a reduction in State investment from 2011 to 2016 of 41% compared to 33% on average in the Spanish State; we have an unemployment rate of 24.9%, six points above the average in the Spanish State; youth unemployment, 50.6% compared to 42.9% on average in the Spanish State; the risk rate of poverty, scandalous, 35%, compared to 22.3% of the average in the Spanish State. I am not going to rejoice in explaining the serious problems my land is facing, but I do have to tell you that I am sure you understand that we cannot be satisfied with such a budget. If we had to put data on the table, we'd be talking about some kind of billionaire punishment to the Canarian community. Now that we are beginning to recognize that the Economic and Fiscal Regime is ours and should never have been included in autonomous financing, it has value when we said that Canarias has lost more than 600 million euros every year since 2009, and now, with these budgets in hand, it has value when we say that Canarias loses 850 million euros in the Canary Islands-State Convention for unilateral breaches by the Government of Spain. On behalf of New Canarias I have to tell you that we believe that there is an opportunity because you do not have an absolute majority. There is an opportunity because you have the need to put together agreements for your budgets to prosper. You came to say this cryptically, Minister, at the end of your speech yesterday, when you said that one thing was dialogue and another was negotiation. Seeing how the dialogues have gone, with all the healthy envy that gives me certain excellent negotiations, for which I congratulate its leaders, I will tell you that the dialogue in the Canary Islands has not gone as well as well. Perhaps what is needed is a negotiation. We cannot accept these General State Budgets either from the perspective of the general interests of the Spaniards or even from the perspective of the general interests of the Canary Islands, which is why it seems to us that what is appropriate is their return. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of the Executive here present, Members of Parliament, very good morning. No one can be surprised if I make public today from the rostrum that we will vote categorically not on the amendments to the whole presented against the General Budgets of the State, for many reasons that I will now explain, but basically for one, and that is that since the founding, almost forty years ago, of the Union of the Navarro People, we have always sought stability, because it is the path to improve and develop a country that is ours, that is Spain. We will therefore vote in favour of the General Budgets of the State when their time comes in the debate. At UPN it is not our style or to market until the last moment in the negotiations before arriving at this debate or to stage some uncertainty to draw the attention of the media. It has not been our style nor will it ever be, although we could have done so, ladies and gentlemen, because the two seats that the Navarro People's Union has within the Joint Group are decisive for these general budgets and for any bill that comes, from now on, to this House. We will also vote that no to these amendments as a whole simply out of consistency, because a few weeks ago the President of the Navarro People's Union, Mr Javier Esparza, signed with Mr Mariano Rajoy an agreement in which the central government committed itself with the Navarro People's Union - therefore with Navarra - to reinvigorate three major strategic and indispensable infrastructures for the future and well-being of the Foral Community of Navarre and, therefore, of all Spain. Firstly, to bring Navarra closer to Madrid through the bidding of two sections of the A-15; secondly, the definitive development of the second phase of the Navarra Canal so that water reaches 21 500 hectares of irrigation on the shore of Navarra; and thirdly - indispensable and fundamental - the bidding of two sections of the high-speed train in the Foral Community of Navarra. That is the commitment made by the Central Government, by the People's Party, to UPN for Navarre. This has been ratified only a week ago by the Committee on Budgets, both by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and by the Ministry of Development, but what is the foreign government going to do about it? I'll tell you, ladies and gentlemen. The president of the foreign government, Mrs. Uxue Barkos, representative of Geroa Bai, the other brand of the Basque Nationalist Party in Navarre, is hostage to its partners, Bildu and Podemos Navarra, who tell her to paralyze these infrastructures. That's what the outlaw government of Navarre is going to do. And this is the paradox of the Basque Nationalist Party, which in Euskadi are demanding that the Basque Y, the high-speed train in Euskadi, be completed as soon as possible, and in Navarre they are paralysing it. This is the paradox. A party that presents itself - and I think so - moderate and centrist, what it does in Navarre is to establish a tax reform that is applying on its basis an unprecedented tax to societies and shipowners, especially to companies, compared with Spain and Europe, severely harming the very majority middle class of Navarre, especially those families that have children and are currently making the income declaration. Now I understand the huge failure Geroa Bai has achieved in the past two legislatures by not getting representation in this House. Finally, I would like to stress that, although the two seats that the Navarro People's Union has in this House are few, they are decisive in the future of this country and, therefore, also of the Navarra Foral Community. These two seats represent a party that, at a time like the current one, where we are all horrified by cases of corruption, I can openly say in this rostrum that after twenty-three years virtually uninterrupted of UPN in the outside government has a clean history of corruption. I don't know how many parties can say that in this House. I can also say that UPN embodies the defence of the feelings of those shipwrecks who feel offended in their symbols at this time in our community and that the two seats of the Navarra People's Union are the defense of the shipwrecks who, despite everything, build the future well-being of our community at European levels. Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote against the amendments in their entirety and we will make use of, and ensure at the end of, the commitments made by the central government to the Navarro People's Union for the sake of Navarre's infrastructure. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is the first draft of the State General Budgets Act in this legislature. It has the characteristic of taking over those for 2016 that were approved more than a year and a half ago, which Forum representatives in Congress and the Senate amend altogether because they consider them to be bad budgets for Spain and singularly very bad for Asturias. That was a very hasty legislative process at the time, in the middle of the summer, in the drafters of the X Legislature, which were adopted thanks to the vast majority of the People's Group in both chambers, but with the rejection of the entire opposition. They remain in effect twenty months later. Today, the parliamentary arithmetic resulting from the last general elections has led to a draft budget law that, when approved by the General Courts, must respond to the priorities of the new majority that supports the State's accounts for the second half of 2017 and frames them in the implementation of the adjustments to which Spain is obliged by its membership of the European Union and the single currency, which, as Minister Montoro recalled yesterday, devotes more than half of the resources to pensions, to employment care policies and to alleviating public debt. Ladies and gentlemen, Forum considers that the draft General Budgets of the State for 2017 is clearly better from the perspective of the criteria to preserve efficiency in the selection of public expenditure and the fairness of its distribution, avoiding comparative grievances between autonomous communities. Consequently, we intend to improve the content of some sections during their processing and we are confident that the agreements contained in the coalition pact with which we appeared in the last general elections will be completed. This pact was placed in the five chapters of the coalition program that the People's Party and Forum formed and that was the basis for a great electoral success, as evidenced by the results obtained from three deputies and three senators, twice as much as the PSOE led by Javier Fernández himself; an electoral program that President Rajoy assumed as a government program during the investiture debate last October 29 and on which Forum bases the obtaining of agreements to give our final approval to the draft General Budgets of the State for 2017. They refer to section 15, Ministry of Finance and Public Service; section 17, Ministry of Development; section 18, Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport; section 20, Ministry of Energy, Tourism and Digital Agenda; and section 27, Ministry of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness. That is why I urge the Government to review the document of the pact signed by the presidents of our two political formations, which has been deposited with the Central Electoral Board, and from the same time we have reached crucial agreements for the future of Asturias, which for Forum it is essential that they be completed in this XII Legislature. I would like to point out that in this draft budget law the investment for Asturias is EUR 211.25 million, which means a drop of 31.33% over the year 2016, more than 21.2% reduction in investment for the whole of Spain, which calls into question the application of the principle of equity precisely on an autonomous community which, as the data of the National Institute of Statistics show, leads Spain in terms of population, GDP growth, job creation, labour force and wage levels, which the European Commission has just certified is also behind Spain and Europe in terms of competitiveness. Asturias has an urgent need for commitments from the State; first, to get out of the decline and decline and to engage the locomotive of the growth of Spain through the investments of the State and other measures that favor the competitiveness of its productive sectors; secondly, to break the unusual and anachronistic railway ghetto to which the last socialist government condemned us, together with other improvements in the field of communications; thirdly, to lead the design of the financial instruments that allow coal power stations to install and apply the necessary technology that meets the European objective of obtaining clean coal; fourthly, to comply with the firm judgment on the agreements of the funds to reactivate the Asturian mining regions; and fifthly, to review the allocations of CAP aid to livestock which reflect the same treatment to all the autonomous communities in the new scenario of the disappearance of milk quotas, as well as in the allocation of the catch quotas of the Spanish artisanal fleets. Madam President, I conclude by reiterating my rejection of the amendments to the whole and my confidence that the deadline starting tomorrow will allow for agreements to be reached and budgetary corrections to be made to ensure compliance with the PP-Forum government programme, thereby supporting this first draft General Budgets Act of the State of Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u19	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, the citizens spoke twice and told us that we had to dialogue, that we had to reach agreements to solve the problems of this country because only from the dialogue can we be built. And we are here to build; to solve problems; to respond to the citizenship, to which we owe ourselves. Let's not let the noise make us forget about it. Canarian nationalists are going to support these budgets because the country and the Canary Islands need to continue to function, continue to move forward. We will support them for responsibility, for coherence and above all for respect; respect for the men and women of the Canary Islands, to whom we pledge our word that we would be here to improve their lives. We have reached a fair deal for the archipelago because the Canary Islands cannot wait. Because the unemployed cannot wait, we recover the specific employment plans for our land; because the road of La Aldea in Gran Canaria, the closure of the insular ring in Tenerife, the false tunnel on foot of Basques in El Hierro cannot wait, we recover the agreement of roads; because our agricultural sector cannot wait, we recover the Posei funds; because the Palace of Congresses of Lanzarote cannot wait, we recover the convention of tourist infrastructure; because the coast and the beaches of the Canary Islands cannot continue to wait, we recover the convention of coasts; because the raft of Vicar in La Palma cannot continue to wait, we recover the agreement of hydraulic works; because the professional training centers that the Canary Islands needs and cannot continue to wait, neither the schools of El Castillo and La Lajita in Fuerteventura, nor the eater in the Nereida College of the Nereida in La Gomera, we recover the plan of educational infrastructure; because we cannot continue to have the basket of the most expensive purchase of this country and our Canary Islands and our important tomatoes funds for agricultural products have the possibility to obtain a new system of compensation, we can not to be able to obtain from the oil and oil and oil. With these budgets, the Canary Islands will receive in July 220 million to finance health, education, dependency and social services; in 2018 it will receive 360 million and in 2019 it will receive 550 million. This agreement allows the Government of the Canary Islands to sit on the negotiating table of the new autonomous financing on equal terms with the rest of the autonomous communities. This agreement is not benefiting the Canary Islands, an injustice is being repaired, the economic and fiscal system of the Canary Islands is being complied with, the outermost status of the archipelago is being compensated and the employment law of this country and the guidelines of Europe to the Member States on policies with the outermost regions is being complied with. For this agreement, which goes beyond these budgets, it has also been essential to approve the new economic and fiscal regime in the Council of Ministers and to process the new statute of autonomy. This canary agenda, which, by the way, is the same as we agreed with the Socialist Party, has its implementation in these budgets, which I remember will only be for seven months and which will have its continuity - it is our wish - in those of 2018 and 2019. To this end, it has been essential for citizens to have decided that this Government does not have an absolute majority. I hope that one day there will be a government, whatever color it is, that will take care of and worry about the Canary Islands not because it has to sign a pact and needs our votes, but because it has something, the minimum required, of sensitivity with the islands and their people. This agreement demonstrates once again that the presence of canarian nationalism in this House is essential; that this society needs a serious, responsible nationalism, involved in the stability and progress of the state in which it is framed, with the capacity to dialogue with the left and the right, always in defence of the interests of the canarian citizenship to which we represent and to which we owe ourselves. I'll finish by saying the following. This is a fair budget for the Canary Islands, which compensates for remoteness and insularity. Today we are here with a mandate from the citizens to solve their problems; the problems of the dependents, of the retirees, of the people stopped and above all to give hope to the young, so that they can have dreams and a project of life again. That is my commitment and, above all, my canary land on equal terms with the rest of the Spaniards. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u21	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u22	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning we have seen the development of registered unemployment and social security membership. Never before in our history has unemployment fallen as much monthly as during the month of April. When that happens, it means that we are on the right path, that we are on the way to that north we were talking about yesterday, which is called employment. Social Security membership increased in April by 212,000 people. This means an annual increase of 3.7%. The latter is a percentage. The other, the total, is not a cold number, are hundreds of thousands of people who have found employment in April. It may be said that it was Holy Week, yes, of course, but other years were Holy Week in April and it did not go down like that; other years also were Holy Week in April and very rarely have we made records of inter-affiliation rates of this magnitude, 212,000 more members of Social Security. These people should be asked what would have happened if we were not implementing these policies that we are implementing in Spain. These people should be asked if those hundreds of thousands of jobs would have been created if we did not have political stability in Spain. It should also be asked whether these jobs, this decline in unemployment, are not being registered throughout Spain. Is unemployment not falling and is social security membership increasing in Andalusia, Extremadura, Madrid, Asturias, the Canary Islands, the Valencian Community or Catalonia? Unemployment is falling and social security membership is increasing. That is what is happening throughout Spain because we have political stability, because we are able today morning to adopt general state budgets, because we are able to understand each other, because we are able to add and give guidance to those economic policies. Then, each one goes up to the rostrum and makes his or her speech in terms of justification, pretext, or in terms of rejection, but he or she is lowering unemployment in Euskadi, he or she is creating membership in Navarre, we are all in the same thing. This, in the opinion of the Government, is called Spain, which is plural, different, diverse, but also works in a united and accompanied way; not all at the same rate - we would like it to be! - but the policies are aimed at having effect on each and every one of the territories that make up Spain in the form of welfare and employment. It cannot be said that this is not the case or that these policies are not effective, as I have heard in the amendments as a whole. As I said yesterday, if there was not a horizon of state legislature and general budgets not only for 2017, but for 2018 and subsequent years, one would have to ask whether these falls in unemployment would be recorded and whether social security membership would be increased. No, of course not. We are ruling under the current conditions, which, by the way, marked citizenship on 26 June. He told us to understand and reach agreements and we are reaching them to program policies that have led us to the recorded falls in unemployment and increases in social security membership. If social security membership has grown by 3.7% in April, that means that the economic growth that underpins these budgets is going to be short, because it is not going to be feasible to match the job creation that is taking place month by month in Spain with growths such as those that contain our country's budget and economic scenario. That is what counts and what makes sense of politics and stability. We therefore believe in the Government that it is an opportunity to also have an understanding of those who assert their territorial representation over the representation of the whole. That is good and positive for Spain, as it is proving. Nothing happens or distorts absolutely nothing; on the contrary, we are getting the horizon of the 20 million long occupied that marked this legislature to be achievable even before the year 2020 in which it was planned. By the end of 2020 we will be 20.5 million occupied, and therefore we will have overcome not only the economic crisis, but its worst legacy, which is the lack of employment and the opportunities that flowed from it. That is why the amendment to the whole of PDECAT, and on his behalf his finance spokesman, Mr Bel, does not make any sense. We have not heard any real reason to accept it, because we know that yours is a political reason, which Mr Bel has not said; a political reason in generic, empty and meaningless terms. How much employment has been created in Catalonia in April? Why don't you come up and talk about it? How much employment has been created in Catalonia over the past year? Why don't you come up and talk about it? Don't you like it? Aren't you from the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia? They are, but they're in something else. [[Protests by Mr Bel Accensi]] Yeah, don't shake your palm anywhere. It is the reality; it is what is happening in Catalonia and the rest of Spain. So why do you say that the economic policies that have been implemented and financing the public services of Catalans are ineffective and inefficient? He has gone up to complain about the special financing mechanisms of the FLA. He said: this is an asset of the public treasury. Isn't it better for the Generalitat of Catalonia to have that liability vis-à-vis the public treasury of the Spanish State than to have it vis-à-vis an Asian investment fund? Isn't he more profitable and more reliable? That's what we've done with the FLA, we've guaranteed suppliers to cover and we're restructuring the debt of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Doesn't that interest you? How much has he saved for the funding mechanisms? I told you yesterday, more than EUR 18 billion in the budget of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Or aren't those savings in the budget? We're financing the treasure type, and this year the treasure type means that the FLA will be funded at 0.7% and says that's a business for the state. Of course it is a good business to restructure the debt of the autonomous communities of Spain hosted by the FLA. How is this not going to be a good business for everyone? What's the state for? What are the financial functions of the State? Ensure the delivery of public services, which suppliers charge in time, and that these debts are restructured from the State, because it is the one that has that capacity and reliability when it comes to markets. Didn't that go well? Hasn't that been a good policy we've been doing these years? Of course it was. So go up and recognize it - well, don't go up, because your turn is over, and we already know that this is the parliamentary procedure -. I mean to at least consider it and ask it, although it is not necessary, because you yourself are an expert, and you know that this experience leads you to a very positive reading of what these special financing mechanisms have meant for Catalonia and for the rest of the autonomous communities that have used them, and the more intensively they have used them - as happens to the Valencian Community - the better, Mr Baldoví, because you have saved a lot of resources. As a result, Catalonia's 18 billion savings in the case of the Valencian Community amounted to around EUR 11 billion. That is what we are really talking about, the figures, and that in order to deal with an economic, financial and fiscal crisis of our estates we have been able to articulate mechanisms that have meant a great savings to us all, apart from the fact that everyone in their field has done what was right for them, the development of constitutional functions, as the Spanish Government has done. I understand, but I don't share those victimistic speeches at all. If you didn't come up to complain, it wouldn't be you, Mr. Baldoví, then you wouldn't exist. I understand that, but as I had the opportunity to tell your colleague in the last control in the Senate victimism is in conflict with loyalty, and you are the Government of the Valencian Community, you are not just an opposition group, as happens to Mr Bel or the representative of the Republican Left. [[Denials of Mr Baldoví Roda]] You have the really prodigious ability in political code to come up here and do an opposition job as if you had no government responsibility, which is fantastic. That certainly has always amazed me. You are not responsible for the public management of these services, you are not responsible for paying for the providers of education, health care, care for those disabled in residences, etc., but that is what we are financing. Or aren't we financing it? [[Mr. Baldoví Roda: Not all]] In addition to this, there is no recovery of investments in this budget in respect of those not implemented for Catalonia or for the Valencian Community. I accept that there has been a degree of non-implementation, I accept that as a criticism, but I have already explained that to a large extent this degree of implementation responds to the political instability that we have experienced last year. Or didn't we have a government in office for ten long months? Wasn't it? And you didn't have a responsibility to do that? [[Rumors]] You have done nothing to ensure that we have a government with real capacity; on the contrary, you have opposed it, and you have done it by system. Everyone has his political reason, and I do not say that it is common, but they will notice that, for their speech and for the reasons they make from the rostrum, it is not that which they argue. Do not go up to the rostrum to say: I am going to vote that not this morning for political reasons, I am going to vote that not for investments. These are investments that we have programmed. Now that we are government with all the capacity we are planning in realistic terms, and in the case of Catalonia the investments programmed in this budget rise by more than 30%. We are talking about a bridge budget, as I called it yesterday, about 2018, which will make the commitments made by the President of the Government vis-à-vis Catalan society in terms of investments, for this exercise and for the coming years, perfectly feasible from this budget, which is loaded with realism, operability, which is what counts in a budget. In addition, Mr Bel has also referred to a certain breach of the budget. Are you sure? That's interesting. How much has tax collection increased in April? I've already explained it to him. The unemployment and membership data of this same April, which we have known today, have grown - April over April - by more than 20%, explained to a large extent in the recovery of the corporate tax collection, 29 billion euros, and from there with VAT increases of 12%. That they won't go on like this? I'm not saying they're going to go on like this, but it's already happening, Mr. Bel. The tax agency box, with the IRPF deductions, has an increase of 7 %, and the consequences of collective bargaining in the private sector, which have entered only partially, have not yet entered. With this very important job creation, the tax base is increasing. And you, to justify your amendment, argue that you are not going to meet what, expenses, revenues? Otherwise the expenditure rule I have already explained. The rule of spending does not mean that you, as mayor of Tortosa, cannot spend more than the limit that sets the potential growth of our economy for 2017. It can spend more on the previous year, but it cannot increase more than 2.1%. It is therefore not true that the spending rule completely prevents spending, as some of you interpret and say. It is European governance. And I have already shown myself publicly prepared, and I have done so at the Cenal, to review those rules, but as long as Spain leaves the excessive deficit procedure and we do so in line with the European institutions, which are our institutions. Therefore, what we are doing in Spain is not an arbitrary procedure, it is the procedure of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability that, Mr. Bel, I remind you that you voted in favour in 2012, and that should be your merit, and not your demerit, seeing those consequences. But you rise to the rostrum and, instead of referring to what already happened in that legislature, in 2012, impossible year, when you had the greatness of voting one of the fundamental laws of our institutional architecture that was allowing us to overcome that, you come to complain about part of the application of those laws. [[Applauds]] What you have to do is be consistent with your own decisions, as we all do when we have that responsibility. From there, I insist that the Government's commitment is to the financing of Catalonia, it is to the investments of Catalonia and, of course, it is also to accommodate it to the reality of the whole of Spain. Mr Baldoví goes up here and his great criticism/complaint - to understand us - is in autonomous financing. Well, autonomous funding's on the move. You, Compromís, are part of the Valencian government; you support the Socialist Party in the Valencian government. I told the Socialist spokesman yesterday that it is not possible to make autonomous funding without his help; it is not possible. I don't know how I can explain it more clearly. It is not possible because I cannot set up majorities; and we are not going to set up any majorities, Mr Baldoví - and I am telling you quite clearly - that go against the criteria of the Valencian Community Government. We're not doing it. There is no intention in our project to do so in any way. So now what I'm doing is displacing the responsibility to you. You, yes, and Mr Puig, President of the Valencian Generalitat, and Mrs Oltra, Vice President of the Valencian Generalitat; you have the key to that funding. I hope your contest, your contribution will be constructive. Or not? Or are they gonna lock him up to keep making the victim? [[Protests by Mr Baldoví Roda]] No, you can't be the victim in a parliamentary arithmetic like this. Here either we build among all or things don't come out. Let's see if we understand each other at once. Otherwise things are going well for everyone. Here's the sample of that job-creating economic recovery. Here is the show of political stability that Spain is showing in front of Europe and the rest of the world. And that's what's working, ladies and gentlemen, but from your own responsibility. This has changed in relation to the previous legislature! Now you're co-responsible, and if you don't put yourself on that chip, don't come up here and complain. Tell us what it is going to do for autonomous financing, so that this reform of the autonomous financing that we want to do this year is precisely in line with the 2018 State General Budgets; tell us what its contribution to that autonomous financing is, and how it will contribute with the rest of the political groups in this House and with the government to make that autonomous financing what it has to be: a source of balance and guarantee when citizens access public services. That's what we're talking about; that's what we're talking about. As for the pension sheath, don't worry; pensions are going to be paid, they are being paid, and what is going on precisely in these General State Budgets is financing from the public treasury, because the sheath has never been used to guarantee the totality of these pensions. The hut was created by a People's Party government, remember? Do you remember that she was created by a People's Party government, where I had the honor of being? So now the utility of that hut is a relative utility. The hedge is to use it, it is debt; it is the debt of the State that has the social security system, and when it uses it it means that the State issues debt to third parties, and therefore this is the only use. In this sense, when the hut is very high, what happens is that the remuneration of that debt, in the form of interest, goes from the State to Social Security. It is another way of financing, and that is all that must be brought to the Toledo Pact Commission for measures to be taken, but of course far from any alarmism, and from the serenity and confidence that pensions are being paid in Spain. And the more contributors, like those we know today, 212,000 new contributors, the better, because that will be the real guarantee of the present and future of pensions. To Bildu's spokesman I have heard a general speech about how bad this government is, how bad the system is, how bad everything is, but I have not heard him speak a word of the Basque quota. To understand us, this means that Bildu didn't like it; I haven't heard a word about it. He said how bad everything is, how false job creation is. Are you sure that this of having 1.5 million more employees, this of the Basque Country being able to have a rate of unemployment clearly below 10% in this legislature is negative, or is it negative for the political interests of some group? Will that be negative for society? Is that what we're doing when we distribute that job? [[Rumors]] That is, that these new Social Security affiliates of the month of April are due to the fact that there are others who have reduced their participation in the number of working hours? [[Rumors]] This is a really curious thing; the explanation of a very radical left that cannot admit that politics, as we are... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u23	One second, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u24	Thank you. Bildu's argument is therefore where he is always, in his anti-system discourse; there they are. I want to tell you that you do not even have the greatness of talking today about the Basque quota, what is being negotiated, the financing between the State Treasury and the Foreign Treasury, but there they are with their approach. With regard to New Canarias, Mr Quevedo said that the responsibility for carrying out these budgets lies with the Ministry of Finance. The responsibility, as I have already explained to you from the very first moment when we brought the budget bill to this House, lies with the Ministry of Finance, the Government and all the members of that House, without whose assistance the general budget of the State does not go forward. Therefore, this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, but in this case it is not. This is a question of understanding; this is a question of wills; this is a question of negotiations; this is a question of the fact that the Canary Islands is a very important territory within Spanish geography, a territory that has suffered the crisis very harshly in the form of job losses. That has also happened in other territories of Spain, but it is also clear that the Canary Islands, as Mrs Oramas very rightly said, needs the different treatment that she has always had in her history. Canary Islands has always had what we call today a different fiscal economic regime, and in this field they will always find the Government to develop all the potential that a territory like Canary Islands, an ultraperipheral region, as it is recognized not in the history of our country, but in the treaties of the European Union itself. It must therefore have a different fiscal and financial treatment, on which we are working and moving forward. This is the objective of the negotiation that we have carried out with the Canary Coalition, which today has the responsibility to govern the islands, and which we want to carry forward with New Canary Islands in the form of partial amendments. But I insist that we have to reach agreements; we have to recognize what we are making progress; we have to reach agreements that do not mean discriminating against anyone, but recognize that Spain is an articulated composition of territories with different peculiarities. And that works in our democracy, that's what the 1978 Constitution recognizes and articulates, that's what it recognizes and articulates the successive doctrine of the Constitutional Court in Spain; it articulates these differences, these differences in wealth, also of the fiscal economic regimes of Ceuta and Melilla. That's Spain. When we are acting and strengthening these regimes we are not creating grievances between Spanish, we are promoting capacities, because when the Canary Islands is doing better, the Spanish are doing better, and the Canary Islands cannot do better without the whole of Spain. This is the only interpretation of our history. Or isn't that what happens? Or is it that the Canarian economy when it falls and collapses, when its unemployment rate rises to 30%, is it not when there is an economic crisis in our country? Doesn't that happen? It does, because even though it is 2000 kilometres away, it is Spain's internal market, it is Europe, and it has the recognition not only of our fundamental laws of Spain, but also that of European laws. That's why at the beginning of 2000 we created the Canary Special Zone, which we have developed and expanded. I have had the honour of bringing for several years - and for a long time now - the development of the REF and the ZEC to this House and to this rostrum and I have received virtually the unanimity of the representation of the popular sovereignty of all Spain in favour of the development of these special regimes, as it must certainly have Canary Islands. Therefore, Mr Quevedo, do not try to avoid responsibilities. No, it's not right to come up here and say that we've suddenly become... No, this is a matter of arithmetic: either we add up or we don't add up. And since there are some here that are in your things, we have to add. And is that bad or good for everyone? He's being good. Some say we're in a real voting market. Not at all. We are acting in Spain, on the territories of Spain, we are doing so when the State has this collection to which I am referring. Is this the same collection we had five years ago? Could we do this five years ago? No, what we're doing is promoting that funding. Autonomous financing. Of the new €5386 million, €851 million goes to the Valencian Community. Why does Mr Baldoví say that he does not like a budget that allows the Valencian Community to access 851 million euros? Doesn't the Valencian Community need them already to promote more health, more education, more attention to the elderly? Don't you need them? If they're here, on the budget. No, he says no. And Mr. Bel is the same with regard to Catalonia. Catalonia has 1081 million euros in these budgets, but it doesn't matter, as the others think we are going to approve, it doesn't matter. But it doesn't matter, we will have to explain to the Catalans that the representatives of his Government are opposed to additional funding such as that going to Catalonia. You have a government whose political representatives in the House are going to vote that they will not go 1081 million to Catalonia or to the Valencian Community 851 million euros. They'll tell me what they need them for. They don't need them. And then they've been saying they're missing out on what kind of investment. But if they have it here in autonomous financing; they have to be consistent with what the budgets bring to autonomous financing, and from there they have to be responsible, and responsible are those parliamentary groups that also govern the autonomous communities. What's wrong with Andalusia? How much is Andalusia going to receive? It will receive an additional €834.7 million, but the Socialist Group will vote that Andalusia does not need €834 million. They're gonna vote no to that, see if we all get along. From there they'll say there's an aggravation in I don't know where. But if you're giving up with your vote! No, we're in something else! They will be in something else, but the budgets are the financing of the functions of the State, the budgets are the content of the tax resources to properly finance the activities of the State, and you say they are in something else. Well, they're on something else, but then don't complain that they don't have any money. Please explain from the autonomous governments that you are voting against more resources being allocated to your autonomy. I would like to thank you for the support we received this morning; on the one hand, from UPN, which has been very clear in your presentation. UPN is for stability, it is for economic recovery and it is, like the members of the other political groups, for the fulfilment of the development of the investment pacts that led UPN to turn to the general elections on the same list as the Popular Party in Navarre. Therefore, what we do in these budgets, budgets for six months, as I say, is to insist on those infrastructures that are precisely the priorities, recognized as such in view of the development of this investment pact. I insist on the first idea, the important thing is not only the development of a certain infrastructure, whether environmental, irrigation, rail transport, which is also; the important thing is stability, economic recovery. Likewise, Forum has insisted on the importance of supporting the General Budgets of the State today from the concept of promoting political stability in our country, to continue that recovery as a development of what our electoral agreements were to attend the past general elections. Also Coalition Canaria - obviously we have not come together - has insisted that the content of these General Budgets of the State is responding to aspirations of the Canary Islands that are in its essence and that from the Government of Spain we are honored to promote when we have budget, when we are having budgetary capacity. Thus, as I said to you, we show everyone that, when we are applying certain budget headings in certain developments of a territory of Spain, what improves is the whole of Spain, besides that we take into account the specificity of a territory like Canarias, a specificity that begins with the history of Spain. Canaries has always had a different tariff and customs regime, it has always had that regime that we call today Economic and Fiscal Regime and, therefore, developing the capacities of that regime is a commitment of the Government and, if I may add it, it is also a personal commitment of this minister who, as I have had occasion to show already at a long stage of government, every time I have had the opportunity to do so without blinking, without really having to vote when we have ruled with absolute majority of the People's Party. I will recall that when we ruled with absolute majority of the People's Party it was when we made the Economic and Fiscal Regime of the Canary Islands, the Special Area of the Canary Islands; we made the Law of Economic Concert currently in force; we made it the first time in history that that Law of Economic Concert had an indefinite character; we made the negotiation of the quota; we made all those peculiarities. We improved the tax economic regimes of Ceuta and Melilla; we made the articulation of these estates; we made the improvement of the Navarra convention and today Navarra also has that forality, that peculiarity of our history, which is the history of Navarra and the history of Spain. We did all that when we had absolute majority, and now we are clearly willing to do so. Or didn't we do all this? We did more. We made the autonomous financing, the only one approved by all the autonomous communities of Spain when in Catalonia I governed Convergence i Unió, when in the Canary Islands I governed Coalition Canaria. We made that autonomous funding, the only one that was agreed by all the autonomous communities in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. That is the aspiration and that is the task ahead. Could we have done it by absolute majority? No, we would never have done so with absolute majority applied to something that affects the territorial and institutional vertebration of Spain. Spain is several haciendas, but there is one, which is that of the State, which is responsible for this whole, as shown by the fiscal crisis of the autonomous haciendas and the State of 2010, 2011 and 2012, which fortunately today we are clearly overcoming. That allows us to develop in our country more fully a government shared with the governments of our autonomy, and that is giving an excellent result in economic terms, because there is more and more income, more and more income is created, more and more jobs are created and our citizens are better served in the field of social protection, thanks to the General Budgets of the State that we present today, but also thanks to the budgets of our territorial administrations and the great task that our municipalities, our local corporations, carry out. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u25	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Montoro, politics is the art of what is possible. That taught us Aristotle. It is good to start by remembering that we are not only here to make statements and proposals, we are also here to make possible policies and that is necessarily because we have a budget. In fact, if this House finally approves the budget law, it will be the first law passed in almost two years and will open the door to other legislative bills. [[The Lord]] Parliaments were created to approve budgets and authorize taxes that citizens had to pay to cover public spending. Representative democracy acquires its meaning precisely by authorizing revenue and expenditure. Hence the famous parliamentary principle non taxation without representation, there can be no tax without representation. On April 4, the government presented in this House the state accounts for 2017 and, as in 2016 they were anticipated, these of 2017 arrive with a delay of six months on the deadline set in the Constitution. At this point this simply means that if we do not adopt budgets we will not have budgets this year, and this fact makes the consequences of rejecting budgets particularly serious. We should remind the groups that now abandon the posture, such as Podemos, Compromís, the new PSOE, or the old Convergence, of the price that citizens would have to pay if their irresponsibility went ahead. [[Applauds]] Today there have been many complaints about territorialized or non-territorialized investments, but let us bear in mind, first of all, that if we do not have budgets, there are no new works or investments. These budgets, in fact, are not a marvel in investment, but in this life we have to choose and, either we improve autonomous financing and we also end up with cuts in health, education and social services - which is what these budgets do - or we increase investment in brick, in a country where we have empty sports and even an exclusive world of the old parties, pedestrian airports, that is, airports without airplanes. [[Rumors]] Obviously, we need to improve investments, but let's be clear, if we don't...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u27	Wait a minute, Mr. De la Torre. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u28	But let us be clear, ladies and gentlemen, if there are no budgets we will have an extension and, consequently, the investment will be reduced to a minimum. Secondly, if there are no new accounts, the autonomous communities will no longer receive €5583 million in cash deliveries, i.e. they will have 6.4% less resources this year. In many autonomous communities the Socialist Party governs, sometimes in alliance with Podemos, and they have included these revenues in their budgets, and if the new budgets do not materialize, there will be non-compliance with the deficit of the autonomous communities and emergency cuts in health, education and social services. [[Applauds]] That's right. By the way, the autonomous governments of the Socialist Party in Andalusia or Asturias have called on Citizens to approve their budgets; responsibility that they only seem to have, and not always, when the Socialist Party is in government. In fact, it is true that nothing is being given to the autonomous communities. These figures, these 5583 million, are just applying the corresponding percentages: 50% of the IRPF, 50% of VAT and 58% of excise duties. If these amounts are not paid now, they will be settled within two years, but citizens need public services to continue to function and there will be no further cuts this year. It should be made clear that if there are no new accounts, economic growth will suffer. In paladin roman, more deficit and more unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, We can, Esquerra, Convergence and Commitment, to vote yes to the amendments as a whole is to vote yes to new and inevitable cuts in the autonomous communities. In this case Pedro Sánchez is right, inevitably he is: yes to the amendments to the whole, yes to the cuts in social spending. And yes, this also has an exception that are the outlying communities, the only ones whose revenues are not directly affected by the budgets, since the tax revenues and the quota paid by the Basque Country for non-transferred services are a different issue; a different issue, Mr Montoro, which we hope will explain to us with due transparency because it is obviously public funds. I already know that it did not do so the last time you approved - in this case it was the coordinating commission of the Navarra contribution - but this should be clearly explained in Congress also to those who are in favour of the Spanish having the same rights and the same per capita financing in essential services, live where they live. [[Applauds]] Thirdly, if there are no budgets, there are staff cuts in the public sector because we have to have accounts and if not, there can be no legal challenge. This affects in the short, medium and long term the functioning of public services and is terribly negative for the vital project of many of our young people who are opposing to fill a vacancy that, above all, we need to cover in essential sectors such as health and education. Fourthly, the Government has reached an agreement with the trade union centres - Commissions, UGT and CSIF - for the consolidation of public employment which will not take place if there are no budgets. Systematically, the governments of the PP, the PSOE and other autonomous governments of the old parties, following in this point the inheritance of the Franco regime, called fewer places than the public sector needed to cover jobs. This involved the creation of huge bags of interims, of people who work for all citizens and who have, systematically, the job in the air: the precarious public sector, the interims. This has not only been criticised, and a lot, in Citizens, but has been condemned by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Now the budgets set up a system to convert these interims - which in many cases have partially passed selective tests - into fixed ones, with the commitment of the administrations to substantially reduce and maintain the rate of temporality they have. Again all this will be lost as tears in the rain if we don't have budgets. To complete the chronicle of the most serious problems of having no accounts, it should be noted that if we do not have budgets, Social Security simply will not be able to pay the pensions. The Secretary of State for Budgets, Alberto Nadal, recently said in the Toledo Pact Commission that the Treasury guaranteed the payment of pensions, and I cannot agree with him any more. However, instruments must be given to enable the Treasury to do so. To this day, ladies and gentlemen, contribution income does not cover pension payments, as you all know perfectly well, and for this reason Social Security has a projected deficit of 1.4% of GDP, of EUR 15 billion. If they did not know, with the legislation in force, Social Security can only have 3 % of the Reserve Fund, which does not cover the deficit. The Reserve Fund at 31 December had EUR 15 020 million. Although there are some experts in other games to calculate 3% very accurately, here we are going to limit ourselves to elementary arithmetic. [[Applauds]] 3% of EUR 15 020 million is EUR 450 million and this does not cover a gap of EUR 15 billion. I suppose anyone can understand that. For this reason, these budgets provide for a reserve fund provision of EUR 7300 million and a loan of EUR 10 192 million. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that all of you believe that pensions must be paid. Therefore, additional problems cannot be created for pensioners. We can all criticise the disastrous labour market, which, of course, is not the fault of the parties that we recently arrived at, but in the short term we have to do two things: enable the government to have 97% of the Social Security Reserve Fund, and enable the Treasury to make the loan to Social Security. Ladies and gentlemen, not being able to pay pensions in December is not an option and cannot be put in the way of an elementary pensioner's right. [[Applauds]] All this would already justify the vote in favour of the budgets: we cannot leave Spain without accounts, but also these budgets, unlike the previous ones, do have a project, which is the result of the agreement signed with Citizens that materializes in more than 4 billion euros in orange policies to recover the middle and working class, devastated by the crisis and the bad policies of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, and also to start betting on the economy of the future. In addition, these accounts show that the numbers can be squared without cuts and tax increases. Before explaining briefly the content of the agreement, we must put ourselves in a position where we really are. We are dealing with extended accounts, but not with normally extended accounts; we are dealing with a tremendous lengthening. The option we have, ladies and gentlemen, is not between the budgets presented to us by the Government and an idyllic world of Yupi of the amendments as a whole. The option is between possible, realistic accounts with some clear ideas, and the extension of the cod. What do I mean by the extension of the cod? Mr. Montoro, in the 2016 accounts you had to charge the revenue forecasts to Antoñita the Fantastic because they could not be fulfilled, and in fact they were not fulfilled. For example, when contributions were increasing by 1% by the end of 2015, you predicted a 17% increase. Of course, the forecast was not met, and instead of having a deficit of 0.3% in social security, we ended up with 1.6% last year. The IRPF's predictions were frankly wrong and should have known when they did. At least we, the Citizens' economic team, told them, and in August and September 2015 we told them that this was overestimated at at least EUR 25 billion. In fact, it was also later warned by the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority and that is what happened. In the 2016 budgets there was a projected deficit of 2.8%, we ended up by 4.54 %, and we got rid of a fine from the European Commission. It is worth highlighting here the irresponsible and sluggish reform of corporate tax. In the first fractional payment of 2016, the one you were comparing before, Mr Montoro, the very large taxpayers, the consolidated groups paid the lowest effective rate in history. In order to avoid the sanction of EUR 6 billion, split payments had to be substantially increased. That is why in April of this year the collection of this tax has such a large increase. I understand that fixing this was not a pleasure dish, but we warned you and in the end this increase to split payments came into effect on September 30 at 9:00 p.m. It was published in the BOE and entered into force for companies at three o'clock, giving them plenty of time to adapt. So, and although it wasn't exactly a pleasant measure and it was derived from its mistakes, we supported it, so did the PSOE and even Podemos abstained. Today, when it comes not to taking drastic fiscal measures but to admit to the procedure a budget that expands rights, it ends the cuts and does not raise taxes, Podemos, the new PSOE may and several other groups have already announced that they will vote against. It seems to me serious and irresponsible because this means maintaining the extension of a cod, but in the end, what happens to this cod? That when you don't collect what's planned, as President Mariano Rajoy says, you can't spend what you don't have. As a result, the extension of these accounts has led to cuts in the form of non-availability agreements, accounting closures and tax increases, which are very enthusiastically supported by the Socialist Party. What does this mean? It means things like that the Council of Ministers was meeting systematically last year only to authorize expenditure every year, such as paying the Cervantes Prize. In short, this is all over if we have accounts. Obviously, these General State Budgets for 2017 are not perfect. We, who have come to an agreement with you to approve them, would surely have done others, but we do believe that they are good accounts and that, as we are not deciding on a specific item here, which will be determined from next week in the Committee on Budgets, today we simply decide whether or not we will have accounts in this exercise. We therefore believe that these budgets are a turnaround in the right direction, that there are €4087 million in orange policies to invest in recovering the middle class, devastated by the crisis and the bad policies, corruption and waste of old parties and also to invest in the future of the Spanish economy. These new accounts do not bring tax cuts or increases... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u29	Quiet. Wait a minute, Mr. De la Torre. Please be quiet so that the speaker can be heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u30	...and they're credible accounts, unlike those of the past few years. As soon as they were presented, Standard and Poor's changed the perspective of the Spanish economy to a positive one. In addition, the President of the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority appeared in the budget process for the first time, at the initiative of Citizens, and noted that they were much more credible accounts than those of previous years. As one of the main negotiators of the budget agreement, my colleague Tony Roldán, points out, these accounts respond to the two fundamental challenges facing the Spanish economy: the first, to offer an urgent response to the precariousness and deep weakening of the middle class and the second, to start laying the foundations for a new model of growth based on education, innovation and training. In addition, the 2017 budget is the first to end indiscriminate tax increases. There is no increase in taxes of any kind, not even those previously envisaged, nor is there any cuts in the State budget or in education, health, social services or innovation; yes, there are cuts in the elimination of superfluous expenditure and in a more effective way than hitherto through the spending review, of the systematic review of the efficiency of the public expenditure of the audit that will be borne by Airef in accordance with the investment agreement. These budgets also end with cuts in the fight against fraud that have been practised by both the PSOE and PP governments since 2008. The budget of the State Agency of the Tax Administration is increased by more than 10%, with more than EUR 100 million available. This is an important step forward in the fight against fraud. Let us remember that for each euro invested in the fight against fraud, the State has a direct income of more than 10 euros. Moreover, this increase in the budget of the Tax Agency is good news in the fight against corruption, since, as your ladies and gentlemen know, the Tax Agency is a key body in the fight against corruption. This is complemented by an increase in budgetary allocations in Sepblac, the Money Laundering Prevention Service, and the new Justice Modernisation Plan, with an additional EUR 100 million. Yes, of course, ladies and gentlemen, we have to do more, much more. We must process and pass the anti-corruption law that Citizens have brought to this House and that counted with all the favorable votes, except those of the Basque Nationalist Party. [[Applauds]] In any case, public resources in the fight against corruption are important and this budget is in the right direction. This budgetary agreement seeks not only to change the form of financing, not to indiscriminate cuts in the welfare state and not to tax increases, but to eliminate unnecessary expenditure and duplication and improvements in the fight against fraud. In addition, the agreement seeks to improve social policies. Around EUR 2 billion will be invested in better policies, including wage supplements with training to dignify the income of young people with EUR 500 million, which we have also managed to finance from European funds but which is included in these budgets. A €342 million plan to combat child poverty, it is finally recognized that we have a problem with child poverty and thanks to the agreement with Citizens, resources are being put in place to alleviate this serious problem. A profound political change in training policies, including more funding for personalized guidance and also reflected in this budget the extension of the flat rate in six months and the extension of paternity permits that are already in place since January 1, 2017; and they are all compliance with the investment agreement with Citizens. [[check formation]] In addition, these accounts begin to bet on a different future of the Spanish economy based on education, innovation, research and development and innovation. We must lay the foundations for the economy of the future and so we have agreed with the Government that EUR 500 million will be allocated to the new Cervera technology transfer network. Yes, yes, it is true, we also copy; this we have copied from the German Fraunhofer Institute by adapting what works. And in addition to these policies, we also have a Prefe program for teacher reinforcement and a free textbook program. In Citizens we are proud that in these budgets we start to bet on education, health and social services not only by ending cuts and increasing specific items, but also by increasing the resources of the autonomous communities in a substantial way, which spend more than 70% of the money they receive in these items. Finally, in these budgets, and also at the request of Citizens and the investment agreement, we also bet on culture. We have made it possible for the Government to comply with the commitment of the investment agreement to reduce VAT to live cultural shows, i.e. theatre, dance and music. In the forthcoming budgets we will negotiate for the government to comply with the commitment made in this House by the spokesman minister, Méndez de Vigo, that cinema should return to the reduced rate of VAT. The new budgets bring in sum good news for professionals working in the cultural industries, for tourism and in general for all Spaniards, for whom live shows will be a little cheaper. Anyway, Mr. Montoro, I suppose it would have cost you this much to lower taxes and bet on culture. As President Rajoy pointed out by referring to the budget agreement, it has not been easy. Matifying: it is a little easier to understand yourself on economic issues than on issues, for example, such as the fight against corruption. And I have to tell that to the minister of the biggest fiscal climb in the history of Spain, who served not only to finance social spending, but for other issues such as radial highways, airports without planes, in the end what it seems that you described yesterday as a 'expenditure drunker', which was not only made by the Socialist Party but also made by you. [[Applauds]] Finally, I also say this to the person responsible for the tax amnesty or extraordinary tax regularization, as he prefers, where it is clear that you and we do not have the same vision. We believe that defrauders and corrupts must be persecuted by applying the law to them to their last consequences and not by pardoning or amnestying them. But, well, there are others who have other visions. I'm done. In Citizens we believe that Spain needs budgets and that these are good accounts, and this time, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we believe that you have complied with the investment agreement. As I assured you, Mr Montoro, when you presented yourself to the Committee on Finance a few months ago, if the budgets were to comply with the investment agreement, we would support them. Today we will support these budgets with our vote in favour, and since we believe that they are good accounts and that Spain needs accounts, we will do so not only because of responsibility, but also because of satisfaction and conviction. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. De la Torre. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u32	Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. This budgetary discussion takes place in very different parliamentary circumstances than have been experienced in decades. There is a more fragmented hemicycle than ever before, with new parliamentary forces and a minority government, and all of this is rearranged with instability and internal fists in some parties. It is a situation of insecurity that makes each weekly plenary session a panorama of uncertainty as to the outcome of each initiative. This is how we come, nothing less than in May, to the debate on this year's budgets. Circumstances of corruption affecting numerous positions of the People's Party cause some voices to propose to reject budgets without even going in to discuss their content. Those who manifest themselves do so without explaining what would happen the next day. It is assumed that rejection of budgets would be the way to express their desire for another Government. Would the rejection of the budget bring directly elections? Not necessarily. The message that would be sent to Europe and the markets - then I will come back with it - would be disastrous, but, being almost at the door of drawing up a budget for 2018, the government could simply extend last year's budget and move on. Let's assume for a moment that the government fell - unlikely enough - for the failure to approve the 2017 budget. Would you assure us of a new election, the third elections, a different government, really? Of course, the polls don't say that. In addition, elections are not necessary for another Government to exist. Now, is there an alternative government capable of generating an absolute stable majority in the House? Doesn't look like it today. The two large parties on the left are at a standstill and are neither in a position nor willing to enter into agreements with a third party that gives them sufficient majority. Is there a capacity to create a negative majority? Yeah, I mean, to say no, but I'm still waiting for a real propositional majority. If those legislative initiatives, such as the Official Secrets Act or the reform of the law known as the law on gags, which have already been taken into consideration by this House, are even being annulled with their continued request for an extension of the deadlines! Yes, yes, those who were supporting them today are part of the opposition. Of course, the responsibilities arising from political corruption must be cleansed, both in the courts and in the Chambers, if they so wish, and we will manifest and act always, but it does not seem that a budget vote in the midst of a difficult economic situation is neither the best scenario nor the most practical to clear responsibilities. There has been strong criticism from various groups that these budgets should be approved. According to them, they'd better turn down the bills. Obviously it is not the budgets that would have been made by the PNV and undoubtedly they can have questionable aspects, but, given the little that the various spokespersons who tabled an amendment to the whole have spoken of the budget numbers, I doubt that this opinion derives strictly from an examination of the content of the public accounts; on the contrary, I believe that always - but more at this time - all groups have their own internal preconditions in setting a position. For the Socialist Party these budgets come at a complicated time, in the midst of a strong debate and internal struggle. Any kind of agreement could be used by any of the internal applications. Beyond the fact that the two major parties of the state have never agreed on accounts - they have always disqualified those of the other as bad in all its sections per se, because this is supposed to be demanded by ideology, without any margin of agreement - socialism also suffers a ferocious marking of Podemos. The ideological positioning and the struggle for the electorate weigh heavily. Is it really good for the Socialist Party that there are no budgets in 2017? Would the Socialist Party really want an election now? Now? The latter is exactly what happens to Podemos. Beyond the fact that the ideological position with the government party can be antagonistic, its gaze and positions - including warnings of censorship motions or these budgets - are more aimed at marking the ground and advancing the Socialist Party than at doing politics. And if, hopefully, elections are provoked, better; let's see if the third one is won and the surprise occurs. Citizenship needs to be explained the real reasons behind the decisions and not tried to involve it in slogans. Asking others not to do politics because the partisan circumstances of some make it impossible or disadvantage it is not serious. I'm entering the economic situation review. The assessment made by the European Commission in its latest report on Spain indicates that the consequences of the crisis have not yet been completely overcome and significant challenges remain. According to forecasts, growth in the euro area will be 1.5 in 2017, a cautious figure, as despite improvements in the labour market and the increase in private consumption, there is a significant risk that political developments will slow the recovery. Thus, factors such as Brexit, elections in France and Germany, possible disturbances in world trade, tightening US monetary policy, China's growth towards domestic demand, etc., make us situated in a context of uncertainty, and this is precisely not a good travel companion for economic development. In Spain, macroeconomic data point to a dynamic perspective of economic growth, but also with the same risk environment and a forecast that promises a long period of limited global growth. The Spanish economy has grown at a much higher rate than the European average and will do so also in 2017. But, although it grows more than other countries, we must not forget the great key difference between each other, the productivity factor, and productivity grows in a residual way in the Spanish economy compared to the German one, for example, which is a serious problem in order to achieve sustained growth over time. It is therefore necessary to focus attention on those sectors with the highest added value. [[The lady]] On the other hand, while accepting, Mr Minister, the magnificent behaviour of tax revenues during this first quarter, I must honestly express a reasonable doubt as to whether I can complete the forecast of tax revenue collection planned taking into account the deviation in the 2016 fiscal year in this regard. You will have to pay attention to the collection, but I hope that it will be fulfilled or exceeded. But while the prospects initiated in the new positive cycle that appear timidly on the horizon are confirmed, let us not lose sight of it, one of the greatest risks we have is to fall into a dual economy, where there are those who thrive and have good levels of well-being in the future and those who remain stagnant. In this area, the distribution of wealth in a balanced manner is a key issue and a subject to be addressed in the future. It also means improving social spending with policies such as those that are done in Euskadi. I am sure that everyone's goal is job creation and, more specifically, the generation of quality jobs. This requires a stable framework at the moment. That is why the greatest virtue of this budget is that its adoption is a message of positive stability to Europe and to the international economy, and it is not small value at such times of internal and external political uncertainty, it is not. Our group's reasons for making the decision to explore the possibility of reaching an agreement are meridian. Our electoral program moves us, our Basque agenda moves us, we are here to do politics, to try to agree for the benefit of the citizens, without harming anyone and fulfilling the commitment made to our voters and Basque citizenship. We have presented the same agenda that we would have presented to any other hypothetical government that could have been set up, it would have been of whatever color. You know that the Basque Administration and the State Treasury have been working hard for years to settle their differences on the quota, it is not the result of two days or a decision made - let me say - to capon, no; it is the strict consequence of the application of the law to the expenses of the State to which the Basque Treasury must contribute. What has been done is to sort out the differences in the calculation of the contributions on which both administrations have disagreed over the past ten years. This ultimately requires the provision of legal certainty. Public accounts must be balanced, but they must also be orderly and, above all, provident. A provisional quota has also been set for this year; by the way, a figure higher than that of 1300 or more than 1100 previously. I don't know where some figures are taken from in the media, 500 million less. 500 million on what? Well, I don't know, about what anyone would have predicted in the first place. Honestly, I don't understand where some figures come from. It is our conviction that it can serve as a touchstone for both administrations to clarify their financial relationship automatically and peacefully in the future; a rational, sensible, balanced agreement that does no harm to anyone. I have to make a little parenthesis, parenthesis that already becomes classic. I was surprised that the representative of UPN devoted himself to us, whether he came or not, a few carinthias in today's debate, although I do not think he was playing today. I know they usually do. I'm starting to call this the UPN section. I'm going to be very brief because the matter, frankly, already bores me. I will only say one thing: this is the way the agreements are negotiated, not the way in which your Government has arrived and which the shipwrecks are still suffering. Nothing more. We are also concerned about the competitiveness of companies at a time when their productive activity must be solid and wages must start to take off. In the area of competitiveness, production costs are crucial. Companies pay very expensive electric kilowattage, above 22% of the European average. In addition, in Spain not all pay the same. In this sense, it is not fair to have ensured that the discriminatory electricity tariff 6.1B will be integrated within 6.2. Many companies throughout the State, and not only in the Basque Country, are bearing discriminatory electricity costs, and these agreements that have been reached with the Government benefit competitiveness, benefit the economy, but throughout the territory of the Spanish State. On the issue of the electricity tariff, I will give you the number of companies that can be affected and the percentages. Do you know where there are more companies that can benefit? In Catalonia, 56.50%, 3277 companies. Do you know the second place where there are more companies that will benefit? In Andalusia, 966 companies. Thirdly, the Basque Country, where it affects 790, almost all of them, which are large consumers. But it will also benefit the public sector. And fourthly, Extremadura, 365 companies. Extremadura is a region that needs to increase its competitiveness. Then there are others in Navarre, Castile and León, Cantabria, Asturias, Murcia, Castile-La Mancha. I'm saying that for those of you who can talk about this as an agreement of our own. No, here we are talking about competitiveness and issues that affect others even more than us, but of course the Basque Country in a very direct way. Look at the proportions: firstly, Catalonia and, secondly, Andalusia. We are sure that change will lead to greater export competitiveness, increased tax collection and increased jobs, because unemployment must be combated by setting the conditions for the economy to take off, not on the basis of subsidies. Infrastructure is an obvious part of these conditions and Euskadi has been a hermit territory in terms of State investment within the framework of its competences. The high speed in Euskadi is fundamental, not only for the best connection of the Basque territory, but for the entire west of the Spanish state and for the European Atlantic axis. It is a work of European interest, co-financed by 40% Brussels. For the first time - and I think this is an important step forward and a very significant commitment on the part of the government, which I appreciate - a specific timetable has been agreed with the government, with deadlines and budgets, to address a priority infrastructure that has already suffered too many delays. A commitment had never been made by the State because so far there had been no real will to carry it forward. We welcome this change of attitude and appreciate it. Transport, together with trade, is fundamental in the dynamism, therefore our interest in agreeing on commitments with strategic intermodal platforms, such as that of Jundiz, in Álava, or Lezo, in Guipúzcoa, that connect different modes of transport, revaluing infrastructures, improving efficiency, enhancing the lowest level of emissions to the environment. An improvement in the environment is also linked to technological projects for which we must bet, and this is also in the agreement. And it is also a joint bet for the whole state the electric vehicle, the development of R & D+i projects, areas on which the focus of the agreement has been placed in a special way. In the field of foral and bilateral relations, unthinkable steps have been taken until recently in the field of public security. Respect for the consideration of Ertzaintza as an integral police force, its access to Schengen mechanisms, is a gesture that we also appreciate. From collaboration to non-obstruction in the development of self-government is where greater effectiveness in the fight against international crime will come from. The result of the agreement is also to channel the solution to problems of municipalities with long outstanding problems that limit their development and habitability. Yesterday I heard the representative of Sortu - today it has been confirmed - say that they rejected the budgets basically for two reasons: the first, because the quota of the Basque Country should not be fixed unilaterally, as the draft budgets have done. Well, that objection is correct as to the bilaterality in the foral relationship of the concert, but it has already been overcome with the agreement reached between the two administrations to regularize the calculations of previous quotas and fix a new provisional quota. The second is that it is bad for Basque workers. To an impartial observer, the agreement already mentioned or those reached on infrastructure, R & D+i, investment and competitiveness, for example, would seem more favourable to boost the economy of Basque workers. It is not surprising that the Spanish budget - which Sortu accuses of antisocialism - does not have practical effects in the Basque Country since it is outside the general system of budgetary transfers, financed through the outside system of the concert. And that effort also to talk about the Spanish tax system when it has nothing to do - well, it does have to do on the basis of the concert, but it is a differentiated regime with regard to the Basque Autonomous Community and Navarre - I do not see much sense in it. I think that, on this occasion, Sortu should look for other reasons. To say that the approval of these budgets and the agreement reached by the Basque Nationalist Party is bad for the Basques is simply not to tell the truth. It is a great agreement for Euskadi, which does no harm to anyone and which rules in favour of principles that interest everyone. I'm done. These are not the budgets of the Basque Nationalist Party because we are not part of the government, but we have achieved a beneficial agreement that, in these times that run, I must emphasize, is driving the fulfilment of important elements of our programme. Is that not what the political parties are demanding, that they try to carry out their programme? Isn't that it? The situation is not the most appropriate to send out signs of economic instability, and that would be what we would be doing rejecting the budget. Considering always the references that guide us, namely, Euskadi, opportunity, agreement, stability and wisdom, we will oppose the amendments as a whole. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u33	Thank you very much. Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I rise to the rostrum to set the position of the People's Parliamentary Group on the amendments to the whole tabled to the draft General Budgets of the State for 2017. My group will vote against all of them for the reasons I shall try to explain below. Firstly, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Montoro and his entire team in the Ministry of Finance and Public Service; all of them and the entire Government, with President Rajoy at the head, I congratulate you on this bill, which is the fruit of the debate and a loyal search for the pact with other political forces. In short, it is the tangible proof that the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group have understood the message given to us by the Spaniards in the last two elections: the majority is over, you dialogue, you seek consensus and, finally, you reach agreements. In good logic, I would also like to thank Coalition Canaria, Forum Asturias, Union del Pueblo Navarro, Citizens and PNV for the effort made in these months of negotiations, as well as their willingness to the agreement. In short, the six political forces that we will reject the amendments tabled in their entirety are exercising responsibility, sense of state and, more importantly, common sense. None of the amendments tabled present alternative text because they lack a medium-serious and rigorous draft to present, proving that under no circumstances can they be taken as an alternative. And I say that none present alternative text because, although We can accompany what they call the alternative proposal of the General Budgets of the State for 2017, it does not seem to be very rigorous to replace 50 leaflets and 20 000 pages with some 30 leaflets, although they must be recognized the effort to have exceeded their self-imposed limit of 140 characters. In general, the amendments tabled confuse the budgetary procedure with the debate on the state of the nation. I would even say that they are confused as a nation, because the description they make of today's Spain is not accompanied by reality. All the amendments complain about the distribution of the public deficit target and that the current financing system ill-treats their autonomous community, something frankly curious when some of them voted in 2009 with the PSOE in favour of the current system and today rule in some of these autonomous communities, while the People's Group voted against: one more proof, ladies and gentlemen, of their incongruity; pure nationalist logic, ladies and gentlemen. In any case, I would like to make it clear that the shortcomings of the current system have been alleviated by the Government through the extraordinary funding mechanisms approved throughout the 10th Legislature; mechanisms that have enabled funding to those autonomous communities that were broken and had closed access to markets. Up to EUR 190 billion has been made available to autonomous communities and local authorities, mainly for the payment of invoices for essential public services that otherwise could not have been provided. In addition, these extraordinary financing systems have benefited them with savings that are estimated today in interest only at more than EUR 20 billion. The solidarity of Spanish society as a whole has made it possible to provide these basic services to its citizens, nationalist ladies and gentlemen. Of that EUR 190 billion, EUR 50 000 has been for Catalonia. Therefore, Mr Tardà, who is not in the Chamber but who I hope will read the Journal of Sessions... [[Protests]] Excuse me, she's present; I apologize. Mr. Tardà, ask yourself, but this time do it honestly, who is the one who steals from Catalonia. Ask him again, but this time do it honestly. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you are so concerned about the financing of your respective autonomous communities, you are missing a good opportunity to improve this funding, as the draft State General Budgets Act for 2017 provides for an extra funding of more than EUR 4400 million for the autonomous communities, an amount that can be allocated to essential public services: health, education and social services, which, as you know, are being transferred. Here you have good reason to withdraw your amendments to the whole and support these General State Budgets. Surely you will not do so out of pure political tacticalism, but you will be standing behind your fellow citizens. On the other hand, with regard to deficit targets, they all make it clear that the distribution of the public deficit for 2017 was approved last December by a large majority in this House, nothing less than 250 Members voted in favour. The PSOE has even forgotten this, although it voted in favour only five months ago. Something frankly surprising about criticizing your own decisions at five months. With regard to the amendment to the whole tabled by Podemos, which is pretentious not only in its formal aspect - as I have already indicated - but also in its content, they will allow me to summarise it as follows. They intend to implement populist policies to achieve the economic results of growth and unemployment that Germany has, and sincerely, ladies and gentlemen, in the real world these things do not happen, even if it is you who will implement them. Believe me, in the real world these things don't happen, simply because it's impossible. With regard to the measure - let's call it the star - that they call guaranteed basic income, the numbers you present do not match in any way, perhaps that's why you haven't even explained it in your intervention. Experts estimate the cost of the measure at 40 billion to cover the percentage of families that you place in poverty and that you say are 2.8 million households. In this case, there would be three possibilities: that the aid should be EUR 600 and reach only 230 000 families, i.e. 1.2 % of Spanish households, which are in fact far less than those already receiving public aid today - today they already receive many more of these households for this amount - and if they are to reach 2.8 million households, the aid would be only EUR 48. Therefore, you will tell me what that help will come to. And the third possibility is that I think you know the accounts I've just made but you bring them in carelessly and you just want to fool the Spaniards again with blue unicorns. My group leans towards this option. [[Applauds]] As for the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group, the fact is that we do not know when it was drafted, but you were able to do so a few months ago, when you announced your rejection of budgets that neither you nor anyone else knew because they were budgets that did not exist. Some might think that you are opposed to them only because they are brought by the People's Party. I have the feeling that yesterday Mr Hernando made a speech for the PSOE primary rather than on the General Budgets of the State, than on this budget bill for 2017. What you are doing is transferring your internal problems to Congress, and in this case you are again acting out of pure partisan interest and not for the benefit of the general interest. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Socialist Group, these are the Sixth General Budgets of the State presented by Mr Rajoy's Government in this House and you have opposed all of them head-on, although their arguments have varied over time. First they said that fiscal consolidation would lead us to the total rescue of our economy and today you do not even dare to mention that possibility. In 2013 they said that, with the budgets of the People's Party, economic growth would never reach Spain, however, not only did it reach six months after its approval, but since 2015 we are the fastest growing economy in the European Union. This year's experts' forecasts put Spain at the forefront of growth not only in Europe but also in the OECD, ahead of the United States and the United Kingdom. The following year, in 2014, the Socialist Party said that it was actually growing but that we were not going to be able to create jobs. Again they have erred in their predictions, we not only create jobs but are the country of Europe that has created more jobs since 2013, more than 2 million jobs, ladies and gentlemen. I repeat, more than 2 million new jobs, people with names and surnames who have found a job in recent years thanks to the policies of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] You have recently resorted to the argument of quality in created employment, to precariousness, to temporality, as if this - the temporality in employment - were a thing of the last few years in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the employment rate in Spain is now similar to that in 2007, around 25%, or what is the same: three out of every four Spaniards have an indefinite contract, as they also had in 2007 and 2008, when the Socialist Party pulled out the chest saying that we were in the Champions League of the world economy and that the crisis - which was already there - was simply an invention of the People's Party. Yesterday Mr Hernando spoke, who is also not in the Chamber - although I hope he will read the Journal of Sessions - about recovery. Finally you admit that we are recovering, it has cost you nothing less than four years. The same years that it took you to recognize the crisis that plagued Spain and that you were unrelentingly denying for the misfortune of all. Mr Hernando said that recovery does not reach the Spaniards because of two fundamental causes: labour reform and fiscal policy, which has benefited the upper classes. But how can you say such a thing, ladies and gentlemen? I will repeat to you two facts which you know perfectly well but which you must have forgotten yesterday to quote Mr Hernando in his speech. Before the labour reform, up to 3.5 million jobs were destroyed in Spain. They ruled you. After the Labour Reform of the People's Parliamentary Group more than 2 million jobs have been created and we have recovered 73% in indefinite recruitment, which you destroyed. I am sure you will appreciate the subtle difference between your employment policies and ours. Ladies and gentlemen, if you really want to work together to improve the quality of employment, please support these general budgets for 2017, as they include the largest supply of public employment - we will start this year with 67 000 new jobs - and have a plan that will reduce the temporary employment of these workers by 90%. For once, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, do something that will help the Spaniards to get out of the crisis. By the way, in the first quarter, full-time indefinite contracts increased by 13% compared to 2015. Quality jobs, ladies and gentlemen. This is the right path on which we should continue to make progress and the path that these General State Budgets also mark for 2017. Yesterday they also criticized the fiscal policy carried out in the X Legislature as a factor of inequality. Let me give you some data, too. This government has carried out the largest tax reduction in Spain's history, with an impact of more than EUR 12.3 billion. No one escapes the fact that this tax reduction has been fundamental to incentivizing domestic consumption in households. Some studies estimate the impact on growth of this tax reduction at 0.9 %. Today, ladies and gentlemen, more than 90% of Spaniards pay less IRPF than they paid in 2011, when the socialists ruled. The minimum rate of IRPF - we are talking about low incomes, ladies and gentlemen - is at 19%, when you had it at 24. We are talking about a 20% discount on the lowest type of IRPF, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] I would also like to make some considerations about inequality. The latest OECD report stated, and I quote: Despite the complicated international context, Spain is proof that reforms work. And he continued: The structural reforms carried out in recent years have made it possible to restore stability to the financial system, improve the efficiency of markets and products and contribute to job creation and promote entrepreneurship. At this point I believe there is no doubt that it supports the policies of the People's Party. I continue to quote from the OECD report: But the crisis was particularly severe in this country, particularly with the destruction of millions of jobs. This, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, points directly to your most recent past. As in the OECD report, the rest of the serious studies on inequality agree to point to unemployment as the greatest cause of inequality. These same studies point out, as it could not otherwise be, that the greatest increase in inequality in Spain occurred between 2008 and 2012, when you were ruling and sending millions of workers to unemployment. Despite all this, yesterday Mr Hernando claimed to blame the People's Party for inequality and unemployment. Why don't you take responsibility for the 571,700 self-employed people who closed their business between 2007 and 2011? Why not take it to the 3,417,500 Spaniards who lost their jobs between 2007 and 2011? Why not ask 1,377,000 women who enlarged the unemployment lists between 2007 and 2011? Why not ask the 461,000 young people who also went to unemployment? Or to the 308,600 older than fifty-five years you sent to unemployment between 2007 and 2011? Do you think all these groups don't remember their employment policies? Ladies and gentlemen, the indicator that best measures poverty is undoubtedly the percentage of households with severe material shortages and these have fallen considerably in the last two years, the two years of the most intense job creation in Spain. This poverty rate stood at 7.1 in 2013, fell to 6.4 in 2014 and again fell to 5.8 in 2015; a decrease, a reduction, ladies and gentlemen, of 20% in two years, which is positive, and we are convinced that it will continue to decrease as we are able to create more jobs. He said that the most accurate index for measuring poverty is that of severe material deprivation because, if what we are talking about is at risk of poverty, we can distort the reality and it happens to us as happened to some in Madrid, where they said that there were 25,000 children who were starving and then it turned out that only 2.5% of that figure went to the school cafeterias in summer. [[Applauds]] In this respect, we must be careful with the figures that are being handled, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, absolute concern and maximum protection for these families. We agree on this, and that is why these General State Budgets contain a plan to combat poverty with EUR 342 million, another reason to support them. With regard to the revenue provided for in the bill, I refer to the statements of the Governor of the Banco de España - Mr. Bel, like you, I was present at your appearance - when he endorsed the Government's calculations by estimating an increase in public revenue by 7.8%. I insist that we are talking about estimates, but if we want to talk about real facts, the Minister has already given you the data: in the first quarter, incomes are growing to 11%. The General State Budgets Act is undoubtedly the most important rule that we must adopt every year in this House. It contains an income forecast and expenditure management that condition the public economy and to a large extent the private economy in our country. No one doubts that by approving updated budgets for 2017... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u35	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u36	... we are sending a powerful message of stability, which will lead to greater confidence in our country, attract more investment and provide our entrepreneurs, who really create jobs, with a stability framework in which to develop their future projects. Ladies and gentlemen, it could be deduced from the speeches of the amending groups that there is an alternative to these General State Budgets for 2017, but nothing further from reality. The Spanish, ladies and gentlemen, must be told the truth. If these General State Budgets are not approved we will not have an updated budget and we will have to continue with those extended until 2018. That's the reality. Many spokesmen, ladies and gentlemen, have spoken more of corruption than of the General Budgets of the State, surely because they know that they are good budgets and for diverting some attention. But since it is true that the Spaniards are concerned about it, and very much, I will not stop giving them the opinion of my parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen, it was my parliamentary group, the People's Group, that adopted in isolation on most occasions many of the anti-corruption measures that are allowing these practices to be pursued as never before in our country. A total of seventy anti-corruption measures have been adopted over the past five years. Some wondered about economic and social costs; we too, and we are concerned, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we do precisely what we have to do: to ensure by law the transparency of all public administrations and their high offices and at the same time to demand the necessary prior controls... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u37	Quiet. One second, Mr. De Olano. Silence, ladies and gentlemen. There is still a part of the debate and I ask you to remain silent so that the speaker, who can barely be heard, can be heard. [[Pause]] Go ahead, Mr. De Olano.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u38	We talked about the economic and social costs of corruption and told them that we do what is right for us, that it is to ensure by law the transparency of all public administrations and their high offices, and at the same time we demand the necessary prior controls, providing the Tax Agency and the State Security Forces and Bodies with the means to pursue the crime, the last of them a new system in the Tax Agency for the calculation of family assets, which will undoubtedly lead to better control of the great fortunes. Ultimately, we also provide justice with the necessary normative and material means to pursue those practices that have not been previously detected. These General State Budgets are a good example, with a 7% increase in the funds allocated to justice and expanding the seats of judges and prosecutors. There are no areas of impunity in Spain. Today we judge all those we once thought were never going to be judged, and we condemn them if their guilt is finally proved. In Spain today all the corrupt know that the burden of the law will fall on them, on all of them, come from wherever they come and call themselves what they call themselves. [[Applauds]] Mr. Hernando said that yesterday he felt disgust, indignation and shame. These were his expressions. What I wonder is whether Mr Hernando feels the same disgust, indignation and shame for seeing that the last two presidents of the Socialist Party, the last two presidents of the Andalusian Board, a former minister and former councillor of the Board, several vice-advisors and an endless number of PSOE-related charges and persons sitting before the court as accused, not witnesses or accused, ladies and gentlemen, accused, Mr Hernando. [[Applauds]] I say the same to you, my group feels the same shame, disgust and indignation in both cases. We share the concern about the impact that corruption can have on Spain's credibility abroad, of course, but if we want to be objective, we can say that a Spanish Government, and consequently our entire country, has not been so credible for a long time. I'll give you an example. With this government we have changed to sit at the table of the Alliance of Civilizations with Turkey and Venezuela at the table with the United States, Germany, the United Kingdom, France and Italy, a significant change that points to who enjoys the confidence of the great world powers and who was a mere secondary actor. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell one thing to the spokespersons of Podemos, who come up to the rostrum to give lessons to everyone. Indeed in this matter we do not look like you, fortunately I would say. And I'll tell you why we don't look alike. While we take away from the party and its public responsibilities those who defraud, be it social security, public finance or universities, you make them general secretaries of your party, members of the management or candidates of some important council. [[Applauds]] While we expel and denounce when we are aware of some wrong fact in our party, you are not known of any denunciation to anyone in your party, none, ladies and gentlemen. While we make social protection homes available to the dispossessed, you appoint a spokesman in the Senate to speculate with her by preventing anyone who needed it from accessing that home. [[Applauds]] As we move away from public life to those who have collected from some tax haven, you allow yourself the luxury of going up here to lecture as if you were on the mountain. Mr. Hernando spoke of responsibility, appealed to the responsibility of his party, and pointed out that the PSOE is a party responsible for having made an effort to abstain from the investiture of Mr. Rajoy, he said textually, saving the Spaniards from a third election. How can you say this without blushing, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party? What the PSOE did was to block Spain for ten months, after having lost the elections clearly and having obtained the worst results of their history, and their abstention, in the opinion of many, was not an exercise of responsibility to save the Spaniards, but simply and plainly to save yourselves from a third election, because you were panicking about going to a third election. Therefore, of responsibility nothing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] These are good State budgets and the People's Party is proud to have presented them together with six other political forces. We believe that they are good because they give continuity to economic and job creation policy. Today's data are frankly extraordinary, 1800 new affiliations every day in the last year. These budgets give continuity to the change of productive model, we have moved from the brick model to the model of internationalization, where exports have taken that difference of weight in GDP, reaching 33%, a healthy, sustainable growth, which everyone recognizes, except you, ladies and gentlemen, a growth that combines the increase of domestic demand with the increase of exports and investment, a true virtuous triangle, as defined by the Governor of the Bank of Spain. These budgets are positive because they give continuity to the employment creation policies of these years, improving the funds for the employability of those who intend to join the labour market up to more than EUR 5400 million. These budgets are good for those Spaniards who do not yet perceive the effects of recovery in their homes or who are more vulnerable, because for the second year in a row they maintain social spending above EUR 300 billion, policies that have allowed, for example, pensioners to gain purchasing power over the last five years. These budgets are also good for the dependents - to whom Mr Hernando quoted - because they give continuity to the policies that have achieved that, from January 2012 until today, 715,878 new beneficiaries have been incorporated. Ladies and gentlemen, 81.5% of beneficiaries with benefits have been incorporated since the People's Party government came to the institutions. These budgets are good for education and for those who need public support to train as best as possible, as they consolidate for the second year in a row a new record for scholarships, which is 1420 million, 252 million more than in 2011. In short, ladies and gentlemen - and I finish now, Madam President - these are good budgets for Spain and for the Spanish. They reinforce economic growth, job creation and, at the same time, help to keep no one out of recovery. They are budgets that have, in their basic lines, the endorsement of all the public and private institutions of prestige; all of them, without exception, endorse the master lines of these budgets, as do the autonomous ones, the SMEs, the Public Service and, ultimately, the vast majority of Spaniards who do believe in the future of this great country. Let us be responsible; let us all be responsible, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[applause from the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, with the majority of its deputies standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u39	I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is the end of this debate, of this presentation of a bill as important as the General Budgets of the State for 2017. My first words are of thanks to the political groups - I have already had the opportunity to do so to the components of the Joint Group - who are going to support these budgets: the Canary Islands Coalition, the Forum and the UPN, to which I have already expressly referred in my previous speech. I should now like to thank, first of all, the People's Parliamentary Group, whose representatives in this House come from all areas of Spain. This implies that they are representing the interests of those territories, but at all times knowing that these territories form the whole of Spain. That is to defend the general interest and the common good. That is why this explicit support from a parliamentary group that supports a minority government has a value, at this particularly unique moment because it also represents, in the political situation in Spain, that we are obliged to understand ourselves. That is what the People's Parliamentary Group is doing throughout this parliamentary term, what it is doing in terms of reaching agreements, negotiating those agreements and allowing votes in this House. Secondly, I would like to refer to the explicit support that the Citizens' Group has given. It is explicit support for the political stability and economic stability of Spain. He has quoted Aristotle as his spokesman bringing that well-known and well-recognized phrase that 'politics is the art of what is possible'. We could also add to that consideration that politics is to make of necessity, virtue. This leads us, precisely in a political situation like the current one, to ask ourselves, how much is the political stability of Spain worth? How much is the economic stability that is enabling this growth in terms of income and national wealth worth? How much is it worth that every day of the past in this month of April there have been 1800 new members of Social Security? How much is it worth for that membership rate to be 3.7%, thus showing Spain and the world that in Spain unemployment can be overcome and done in the short term? How much is that worth? Doesn't that deserve us to come to an agreement? Doesn't that really deserve us to make these budgets the meeting point? Doesn't that justify us getting to value those agreements and the development of the investment pacts with Citizens? Because precisely what we do in the State's General Budgets is to develop the investment pacts. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u41	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u42	These investment pacts in both public and tax spending are well suited to the policies of this Government. That is what these General State Budgets bring. Moreover, in line with the objectives of reducing the public deficit and the consequent reduction of public debt, which I explained yesterday, are fundamental levers for strengthening economic growth and job creation. That which we signed - which the political representatives signed at the time in another part of this House - we are making real, materializing in the General Budgets of the State, in its expenditure chapters and in its revenue chapters. Moreover, this minister is very happy with lowering taxes, contrary to the fame that I continue to be awarded innoblely, since in the last two years, as I have already explained, we have lowered taxes by EUR 12 300 million, to the point that there has never been an income tax in Spain like the one we have here - Mr De Olano has explained it very well - with that band and that maximum rate of 45%. And never in Spain have we had a company tax like the one we have now, with that nominal rate of 25%. We are in agreement with that policy, which is the policy of the People's Party Government. Another thing is what we did at a time of crisis, which we have already returned with much. I would therefore like to thank the citizens for their willingness and coincidence, which puts forward the criterion of political stability and economic stability and which they are bearing with the general budgets of the State which are convinced, as his spokesman has explained, that they will continue to promote economic growth; the creation of employment; the correct financing of our public services; the advanced financing of the Tax Agency - which is one of the great institutions of the State in the fight against fraud and corruption - and also the social protection that we all have an obligation to safeguard. I would also like to thank the PNV's support, whose spokesman, Mr Esteban, explained in this rostrum this morning that it is due to the political situation in Spain at the moment, to the fact that it is continuing to maintain political stability and not generating political uncertainties, not confusing political discourses and for putting forward economic policies of growth and job creation and for founding the welfare state. These are the great arguments that lead us to be called to understand ourselves in a Chamber like the one that has been composed since the last general elections. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u43	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please. [[Pause]] Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u44	Thank you, Madam President. I am convinced on a morning like today that what citizens value is the ability to reach agreements, and today a minority government is obliged to reach agreements. This is not the first time that we have participated in a minority government and in those governments we have reached agreements that made it possible at the time to set up the euro, to open up the phase of economic growth that creates the most jobs in Spain and also to achieve the country's greatest advances in internationalisation. All this was achieved through political agreements with nationalist political formations ruling elsewhere in Spain. In the current situation, our obligation is to boost this economic growth and to promote job creation. We are honouring this and we must value the Basque Nationalist Party's commitment because, as its spokesman has also pointed out, it was now up to renew the quota, which for almost a decade has not been renewed, and it is the first time in the history of the concert that such renewal takes place. You say, why now? Because now the state's finances can cope with that renewal. Are the current state finances that contain these budgets the same as those of 2012? Come on, they're the same! Exactly the same! Are these finances the same, are they exactly the same as those we lived in 2012, with revenue falling, with the economy falling by almost 3% and destroying hundreds of thousands of jobs? Could we then face the renewal of the quota? Could we face the renewal of the quinquennium? Now is when we can do it and, moreover, I agree with your spokesman that the figures that have been published today are... Someone has such an inventive capacity that he should be able to moderate himself because frankly they have nothing to do with a reality that is not that he is agreed, it is that he has to go to the Joint Commission that we are going to celebrate this month of May. This Joint Commission will establish a quota figure which will form the basis for the new five-year period and, consequently, a new meeting of the Joint Commission will lay the basis for a negotiated law that will come to these Courts. That is what we have approved, this law, which I am sure most of these Courts will approve, as it cannot be otherwise, because it constitutes the institutional normality of Spain. As I said earlier, the institutional normality of Spain is to deepen and develop the Economic and Fiscal Regime of the Canary Islands, Ceuta and Melilla; it is institutional normality of Spain to review and update the quotas produced by the foreign haciendas in the case of the Basque Country Economic Concert and in the case of the Convention with Navarre. That is what we are doing in a legislature that, as we said, has to be a legislature of binding understanding and that understanding is what we are being able to achieve without creating grievances. That understanding should facilitate the reform of autonomous financing and local financing then and therefore those who oppose the General State Budgets that provide an additional 53 billion for the autonomous communities represented in this House by political formations that are governing in those autonomous communities and who say they renounce that funding for their fundamental public services in the 2017 financial year, will understand that it is not very coherent. You are in another film, let's put it this way, but the main film of the Spaniards, your general interest is in having General State Budgets, is in having the springs that drive that economic growth and that job creation. I insist, after the final approval of these General State Budgets in their Senate proceedings, the Council of Ministers will then address the spending ceiling for the 2018 financial year and I hope that by then all political groups will have defined their own political projects for a legislature in which we cannot and must not fail the Spaniards and thus be able to facilitate the procedures for us to have twenty million occupied at the end of the legislature. Those twenty million long that we can have occupied that will allow us to say that in this second parliamentary term we have definitively ended the worst economic crisis that Spain has experienced. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u45	Thank you very much. Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor on the replica shift. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause]] Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u46	Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Montoro, I thank you for the tone of your answer and asked what the price of stability in Spain was. What I have to answer on behalf of Citizens is that we, unlike other political groups, do not have a price. [[Applauds]] We have supported these budgets by conviction, because we have reached an agreement where you valued stability, and it is correct, but we also support reforms, and these reforms go through a change in policies that materializes in 4087 million euros in policies inspired by Citizens, materialized in the investment agreement, to recover the middle class and worker with social policies and also to change the economic model of Spain that bets on the economy of the future. This seems very relevant to us because there are other groups, and here what we are asking for is transparency, where perhaps they have put a price on parliamentary support. That's basically what I had to say. One last observation. As for the question of whether you like it more, less or regular up or down taxes, well, that's a personal thing, I don't know how much you will like it or not, in that I have to give you the reason. What is a fact is that taxes have gone up indiscriminately and that during these years it is true that social policies have been financed but also that what you called a 'public expenditure drunkard' which was not only made by the Socialist Party, although Zapatero certainly had the record in this, but that there have been cases - and they are still in force today - like that of the Castor warehouse, and you will tell me that this is paid by consumers and not by taxpayers, but it is almost the same; or the case of what the radial highways are going to cost us also by decisions of the People's Party. In any case, in order to support massive tax increases, the Socialist Party's support will have to be sought - and that has been forgotten - as they did in November, because we do not support them. We believe that there is another possible way of doing things and that it is materialized in these budgets by cutting superfluous expenditure and duplication, by improving the fight against fraud that, I remember in this house that with the governments of the Socialist Party since 2008 and with those of the People's Party the only thing that made the resources in the Tax Agency was to decrease and that now, this is different, it is different, we have more resources. Certainly not all of us would like to, but it is a fundamental issue. I thank him for also putting into value the work of the Tax Agency in the fight against corruption because I say to him, as a former official of that house, that it is a fundamental task. I repeat, Mr Montoro and Mr President of the Government, that these are good accounts, that on this occasion you have fulfilled the investiture agreement and that we are very pleased to vote in favour of these budgets because we believe that they are good accounts and that Spain needs them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u47	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u48	Thank you, Madam President. I just want to thank again the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and Mr De la Torre, his spokesman, for his support, because he values political and economic stability. In that regard, I trust that we will be able to obtain that support in the following budgets -2018, 2019 and 2020 - so that today we are establishing political stability so that we have a legislature that allows the government's goal of having more than 20 million occupied to be a common goal and shared by the majority of the House. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u49	Thank you very much. Having concluded the debate, we shall proceed to the vote in three minutes. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent while the vote is taking place and the result is being read. Let us proceed to the vote on the amendments submitted to the State General Budgets Bill for 2017. These amendments are put to a single joint vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 349 plus 1 telematic vote, 350; in favour, 174 plus 1 telematic vote, 175; against, 175.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, since there has been a tie in the vote and as planned... [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, if not, I shall have to apply the Rules of Procedure to one of your ladies and gentlemen. In the event of a tie in the vote and in accordance with Rule 88(1) of the Rules of Procedure, a second vote shall be taken and, if the vote persists, the vote shall be suspended for such time as the Presidency considers reasonable. After the deadline, the vote shall be repeated and, if there is a tie again, the opinion, rule, amendment, individual vote or proposal in question shall be rejected. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we proceed to the second vote under Rule 88(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 349 plus 1 telematic vote, 350; in favour, 174 plus 1 telematic vote, 175; against, 175.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u51	Accordingly, pursuant to rule 88.1, the meeting was suspended for five minutes. [[Pause]] The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to proceed to the third and final vote on the full amendments tabled to the State General Budgets Bill for 2017. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 349 plus 1 telematic vote, 350; in favour, 174 plus 1 telematic vote, 175; against, 175.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-04-CD170504.u52	The full amendments to the General State Budgets Bill for 2017 are rejected. [[Applauds]] The meeting rose. It was 12 and 20 minutes from noon.
