ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u1	The meeting was resumed. We begin with the item on the agenda for the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 2/2017 of 27 January, by which urgent measures are taken to alleviate the damage caused by the latest storms. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u2	Thank you very much, President. Today I present before you, to submit to you for validation, a royal decree-law to take urgent measures to help alleviate the damage caused by the last storms, the consequences of which have suffered different autonomous communities. As you are well aware, during the last days of November and the first days of December of last year, there were large and persistent rainfalls that mainly affected the western coast of the province of Malaga and the coast of the provinces of Cadiz and Huelva. The precipitation that occurred in the provinces of Castellón, Valencia and Alicante was also very important. The serious consequences of this time frame led this Government to deploy an important mechanism to assist those affected. Personally I was able to check at the Coordination Centre of 112 Andalusia, in Malaga, where I coincided with the president of the Andalusian Junta, Ms. Susana Díaz, the important coordination of all the administrations, in addition to visiting the affected municipalities, analyzing the damage and following the evolution of the storm on the ground. Unfortunately, we had to regret the loss of two human lives, one in Estepona and the other in the Conception Line, something that is irreparable and, although I have already done so in his day, I want to again convey my sincere condolences to their families and friends. As a result of the intense rainy season, ladies and gentlemen, both the Special Plan for Floods of the Autonomous Community of Andalusia and the municipal emergency plans in those provinces and the Self-Protection Plan of Malaga-Costa del Sol Airport were activated. Subsequently, since 17 December, persistent and high-intensity rainfalls of up to 200 litres per square metre, accompanied by strong and temporary sea winds, have occurred in the Peninsular Levant and the Balearic Islands. This episode had very serious consequences for the population in the autonomous communities of Valencia, Murcia and the Balearic Islands, as well as in the provinces of Almería and Albacete. The situation was particularly serious in Murcia. To give you an idea, there have been more than 2,400 incidents of intense rainfall in this autonomous community since 17 December. But that is not all because, more recently, between 15 and 21 January, already this year, there have been different episodes of heavy snow, rain, wind and coastal phenomena that have affected mainly the Valencian Community, the Balearic Islands, Catalonia, Murcia and also the province of Albacete again. The damage has been numerous. In addition to the inconvenience caused to citizens by roadblocks and interruptions in some cases of rail and electricity services, the main damage has focused on coastal areas, especially on beaches and promenades, and also on agricultural production. This storm has also caused damage to homes, vehicles, roads and river overflows, although I again insist that the most serious thing is that these extreme weather events have led to the loss of human lives. I would like to highlight and thank, if I may, the work of the State Security Forces and Corpses, as well as all those who have participated in the security arrangements and in numerous rescue and evacuation activities. Many thanks to all the Civil Protection and Emergency personnel, those who are framed within the national network, as well as those who are part of the different autonomous communities and municipalities. I would also like to express my gratitude to the Civil Guard, the Police, the Directorate-General for Traffic and all the units of the Civil Traffic Guard, to all the staff of the Directorate-General for Roads and the Emergency Military Unit, as well as to the staff of the rest of the autonomous and local administrations and to the numerous volunteers, in particular those of the Red Cross, who worked without regard to the time and weather conditions to be always helping all those affected. Ladies and gentlemen, this government was clear from the very first moment that action had to be taken, that the magnitude of the emergency required immediate action so that, on the one hand, essential public services could be restored as soon as possible and, on the other hand, aid for the recovery of the affected areas from the date covered by this royal decree-law. The General Administration of the State, on the basis of the principle of inter-territorial solidarity and in a subsidiary way, had to adopt a number of measures, which are provided for in this royal decree-law, in order to supplement the actions which, in the exercise of their powers, are entrusted to the territorial administrations. So, without further delay and on the basis of current regulations, the Council of Ministers, at its meetings on 9 and 23 December 2016, agreed to the declaration of areas seriously affected by an emergency of civil protection in the provinces of Cadiz, Huelva, Malaga, Castellón, Valencia and Alicante for the episode of rains of late November and early December; the province of Badajoz by the pedrisco of July; the autonomous communities of Valencia, Murcia and Balearic Islands and the provinces of Almería and Albacete for the floods produced from 17 to 23 December. For reasons of urgency and procedural economy, this rule also declares areas seriously affected by an emergency of civil protection the autonomous communities of Valencia, Balearic Islands, Catalonia and Murcia, as well as the province of Albacete by the storms of snow, rain, wind and coastal phenomena occurring between 15 and 21 January 2017. Finally, due to the serious damage caused, the extraordinary and urgent need for the implementation of the measures contained in the agreements of the Council of Ministers and in this royal decreeley is determined also to the autonomous communities of Valencia, Balearic Islands, Catalonia and Murcia, as well as to the province of Albacete, as a result of the snows, rains, wind and coastal phenomena occurring between 15 and 23 January of this year. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the measures adopted in the agreements of the Council of Ministers, in application of the principle of interterritorial solidarity and as in cases where urgent action has been necessary in the face of situations of serious deterioration of the living conditions of the population in a given geographical area, in order to implement the measures whose adoption requires a rule of law, it is for this reason that on 27 January we adopted this royal decree-law which was published in the Official Gazette of the State on 28 January and which we are presenting today for validation. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that this is a subject of particular sensitivity and I hope that it will generate the necessary consensus so that it can be adopted without any problem. The aid provided for in this Royal Decree provides, on the one hand, for tax benefits; that is to say, exceptional aid for personal damage granted in Article 1 to family or economic units which have suffered personal damage shall be exempt from the income tax of natural persons. [[Rumors]] On the other hand, it envisages facilities to identify ownership of the property affected by the claims to family or economic cohabitation units that have suffered material damage to their habitual home or to basic necessities. Local corporations are also helped to meet the emergency costs they have incurred. Aid is also available to holders of commercial, industrial, service and farm and livestock holdings. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u3	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u4	Finally, aid is provided for natural or legal persons who have carried out personal or property benefits at the request of the competent authority for civil protection and to communities of owners for damage to common elements that have occurred. This Royal Decree sets out a period of two months from its entry into force for the application of such aid, which must be dealt with by the delegations or sub-delegations of the Government and which will be decided by the ministry I lead. There are also other measures in this Royal Decree-Law that fall within the competence of other departments. For example, they will have exemptions from the share of the tax on real property for the year in which the damage occurred and there will be a reduction in the tax on economic activities and will even be exempt from the fees of the autonomous body of the Central Traffic Chief established by Law 16/1979 of 2 October. Logically, the decrease in income in local taxes that this implies will be offset from the State's General Budgets. There are also special tax reductions for agricultural activities and grants of up to 50 per cent of the cost of projects implemented by municipalities, provincial councils, island councils, regions, municipalities and autonomous communities for repairs or restoration of municipally owned infrastructure, equipment or facilities and services, as well as on the road network of island councils and provincial parliaments themselves. These grants will be met from the budget of the Ministry of the Presidency and for the Territorial Administrations. Of course, all this will be complemented by concrete actions in the field of water public domain on the coast, in the national network of natural roads and in aid for damage caused to agricultural and livestock farms of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment, and also with concrete assistance from other ministries, such as the Ministries of Development, Defence, Employment, etc. Finally, but not least - and more importantly, I would dare to say that this is the fundamental thing - the financing of all these measures is clearly laid down with the commitment that this Government will enable the corresponding credits and those necessary. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this Government has acted swiftly and diligently, as exceptional circumstances required. I hope that these measures will add the necessary consensus for their implementation because we in this Government believe that they are necessary, urgent and also fair. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government and also - why not say so - of all the citizens concerned, I ask you to vote in favour of this royal decreeley. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u5	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, intervenes in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. The validation of this royal decree-law is absolutely justified because it seeks to endorse the actions that the Government has had to adopt urgently and exceptionally in the face of the damage caused by storms and floods in different autonomous communities and the need to implement solidarity and aid mechanisms that will enable the daily life and conditions of the populations and places affected to recover. On this occasion the text presented by Minister Zoido refers to the storms of the last quarter and also to the rock that at the end of July ruined the crops in several municipalities of the province of Badajoz, with more than 10,000 hectares affected, loss of one hundred percent of the harvest in more than half of these lands and damages valued at almost 12 million euros, a very hard blow for agriculture and the economy of these places. The validation of these measures is the parliamentary response to situations that, unfortunately, are repeated every year and are often the subject of controversy, because when human intervention occurs, the lack of forecasting or a certain lack of coordination often reveals that the proper use of public resources in situations linked to the meteorological effects is in doubt. So I have been able to review the precedents of similar initiatives in previous legislatures, the call to implement palliative measures to deal with disasters caused by nature is a constant one, but it is also the call to citizen prevention and wisdom to listen to and attend to meteorological and civil protection services, especially when it comes to recommendations to avoid the movement of goods vehicles and people. My vote - as I suppose the rest of the House will be - will be in favour of this validation. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u7	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u8	Thank you, President. Today we are being presented with aid - ridiculous and insufficient for us - for agriculture, establishments and some housing, but they do not propose a single euro to deal with the destruction of the beaches and the coast, and the minister himself has said that it is one of the most affected areas. The rains and snow of December and January destroyed the Valencian coast. This decree does not contain a point to attend to the consequences of the worst temporals that have hit the Valencià Country. We have been demanding investment in coastal regeneration for years, we have been warning that this would happen, we have been demanding a lack of investment in the regeneration of our beaches for years. We have come to present as an amendment to the General Budgets of the State up to 68 million euros in order to avoid the regression of the beach, always with the negative vote of the People's Party, also of the deputies and popular deputies representing the Valencia Country. So, before this decree, how do you plan to do that?How much money are you going to invest? And most importantly, when are they going to do it? Coastal peoples already need urgent action. In just two months comes the Easter season and after summer. [[Rumors]] This represents much of the annual income of the majority of peoples who have been affected by the storm, but to you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u9	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u10	...it doesn't matter to them, and you can see in how they don't even attend to our interventions. They care about the photo, like this one that was made the Minister of Development recently in Almenara. [[Show a picture]] I guess he remembers the wreckage in this town. It is clear what the consequences of the storm were. If the government does not hurry, it will be the municipality of Almenara itself that will have to put some kind of solution in order to be able to receive tourists this summer, as to so many other municipalities - Benicarló, Vinaroz, Alcalà-Alcossebre, Almassora, Chilches, Burriana -, the same ones that have imposed a ceiling of spending and that will now have to face their lack of action. But you guys care about the picture, and this one's already got it. When you have an interest in allocating money to something you are already looking for tricks to do so, such as with the Atocha-Chamartin connection, which, by the way, is paid with money from the Mediterranean corridor. So, even though time is tight, we invite you this time this is more than just a picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u11	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. Mr Minister, you will logically have the support of the two seats of the Navarro People's Union in the validation of this royal decree of urgent measures to alleviate the damage caused by the storm in November and December last year. I insist that we vote in favour. In addition, Minister, there are two issues that have improved in relation to the real decree-law of 2015, the year in which Navarra was declared an affected area. These improvements are, firstly, that these aids do seem - correct me if I am wrong - to cover the franchise applied by the Agricultural Insurance Consortium and, secondly, also very relevant, the validity of the presentation of the insurance policy of the previous year in those cases where the accident occurred before this year's insurance policies come into force. Those are two great advances over two years ago. But I must also tell you, Minister, that there are two matters of concern to farmers, in general from Spain and also from Navarre. First of all, there are some non-insurable expenses. For example, there are structural elements of a farm, such as valves, valves, irrigation heads, filters, or greenhouses, which are not included. It should therefore be considered in future royal decrees. Secondly, the complexity of the ownership of the owner in those cases where it has leased to farmers these small farms, these plots. That is where we insist that they be less rigorous in relation to this issue. Two years ago, there were 217 applications for aid in the Foral Community of Navarre and only 94 were in favour, precisely because of this reason, of the complexity of the accreditation of the ownership of the insurance holder and the ownership of the parcels. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u13	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u14	Thank you, President. Minister, good morning. As Mr Martínez said in his speech, this is often the case and cannot be avoided by the climate in our country. So what we have to do is plant a face on him. What is happening, Minister, is that today we are discussing how to repair the damage caused, but we talk very little about how to avoid the damage that has caused us this time. I was saying it the other day in my speech. In 2015, the Government pledged to invest 32 million in the Maresme to avoid possible damage, such as those we are regretting today. The municipalities of Garraf or the Tarragona regions have suffered the irreparable damage that this temporary has caused them and therefore, although we support this royal decree, we believe that we should take measures on the other hand to avoid finding ourselves in a situation like this later. What seems to us frankly better from this royal decree? Since Article 7 seems to us to be quite improved, since we are not talking, in our view, about ordinary assumptions of budgetary surpluses, but rather about absolutely extraordinary facts that need the unconditional support of the Government and this House, what we must do is not put the difficult things into them and establish first-class or second-class municipalities. What we are going to do, Minister, is to make things easy for everyone, for those who have been able to comply and for those who have not, to get them out of this situation as quickly as possible. Even so, our vote will be in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u15	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u16	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen; good morning, Madam President. I will act as briefly as possible because little more can be said of this royal decree-law. Perhaps, if you look at it from a perspective, the rare thing is that we look at extraordinary events like this, events like any temporal or any natural phenomenon of which we are recently having too many reproductions. We could say that human nature is far more clumsy than Nature, with capitals, and that we cannot predict that, in fact, at some point everything that men have not been able to coordinate adequately with it will be charged. Therefore, apart from the catastrophes, from the concrete episodes, what is really important about this royal decree-law is the legal regime that sustains it, which is not other than the Law 17/2015, of the National Civil Protection System, article 24 of which provides for a series of measures, with consequences, including the coordination that is necessary in this type of catastrophe. The expository part of this law speaks of the fact that the vulnerability of people in our society, among the multiple and complex threats of natural, industrial or technological catastrophes, is the one that underpins the need to act with some kind of help. In this case they are concrete to alleviate personal damage, to houses, goods, industrial establishments, mercantiles, agrarians, marine-fishermen, etc. Well, of the measures envisaged, all of them logical, all of them consistent with Article 24 of Law 17/2015, I just want to stress that there are direct aid to people, aid that is easily credible; aid to industrial, commercial, agricultural and maritime fisheries establishments, which have determined the amount, which is 7% of the compensable damage caused by the accident up to a maximum of 8,000 euros, which is as certain or as arbitrary as you want but which is there, we will not criticise it even if it is necessary to aim at it. It has aid for holders of agricultural holdings. It has tax benefits exempt from the share of property tax, economic activities, traffic charges for the processing of vehicle casualties. But it also has, as far as these tax benefits are concerned, an important precision - and I will then say - and it is that these will be compensated to local municipalities and corporations under the State General Budgets. And that is an important precision that should be highlighted. It has special tax reductions, it has aid to local corporations; it has others, for example direct aid, with a grant of up to 50% of works to these local corporations. Little more can be said. We will support it, but I would like to finish my speech by making three small clarifications. This is a royal decree-law that addresses its own content, the situation of exceptionality. It is good that the royal decrees-laws attend to exceptional situations and not ordinary situations; this is so and we are glad for it. In our view, a small detail is lacking and it is that in the investments that the local corporations must make, it does not point out that they should not compute as a deficit for the debt purposes of these corporations, and these are too limited in their ability to act so that these compulsory actions do not have to compute them as a deficit, Minister. I'll tell you something anecdotal. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u17	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u18	This has been an event, there have been others before. It is good that it envisages an aid scheme, and we are happy about it, but there are aid schemes for other exceptional situations which are still outstanding, and I will refer to one in particular: in 2014 there was a temporary one in the Cantabrian and Atlantic coast as a result of waves, sea phenomena, from which there was also some aid scheme for local corporations and public administrations which had to carry out different actions. Those proceedings were paid in a large part, except for one: the Gipuzkoa Foral Chamber, which is still pending to collect the amount of the proceedings, precisely as a result of the 2016 budget freeze, which has prevented it from collecting what was even already recognized. Therefore, Minister, Government, I would ask you that before you start paying for all this - which is very well paid for - you pay for what is still pending from previous catastrophes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u19	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u20	Madam President, deputies and deputies, good morning. To the snow and cold storm that affected the west of Europe the week of 16-22 January - remember, from exceptional to ordinary - we must also add a sea storm that with particular violence punished the coastal localities of the Mediterranean and the Balearic Islands, especially during the weekend of 20-22 January. The damage caused by the maritime storm is evident throughout the Catalan Countries, reaching even populations such as Malgrat de Mar, Maresme, that have run out of beach or that in Badalona the waves of the storm have broken the waste water collector located between Badalona and Sant Adrià del Besós. In Pineda de Mar the waves destroyed part of the promenade and the bicycle lane. This is the area where there is no fence and the sea entered below and took the walk and various elements of urban furniture. The effects at points on the Catalan coast are reproduced both in the north and in the south of Catalonia. The storm also affected several populations in the Girona regions such as Cadaqués or Calonge. On the promenade of Sant Antoni de Calonge the great waves left in some sections half a meter of sand and some beaches have been practically covered with remains of vegetables and waste. The district of this town estimates that cleaning this up will cost about 50,000 euros. The rains have also caused the streams to grow, and dozens of vehicles were trapped in Lloret. The Prat de Llobregat has proved to be one of the most affected municipalities, with numerous broken walkways and the practical disappearance of its beach. In Barcelona the storm reached such strength that it came to break the containment dam located in the Forum area. On the coast of Garraf, in Sitges, water has caused some beaches to be covered with algae. In municipalities such as Torredembarra, on the Tarragonese coast, some restaurants have had to remove the sand from the terraces and water, which in some cases has reached the interior of the premises. The sand has also covered the promenade. The coast of Vendrell has also been seriously affected by large amounts of sand dragged by the force of the sea into the city centre, almost completely emptying the beaches of this city. In the coastal municipalities of the Terras de l'Ebre the storm has also been noticed and in Les Cases d'Alcanar, for example, it has damaged cliffs, beaches and has filled the promenade with rocks and sand. In the Pais Valencià the storm, with waves of up to six meters, has caused important destruction in several coastal localities. In the promenade of Almenara, Castelló, the water has flooded the first line of the beach and has dragged all kinds of waste to the shore, while in Cullera, Valencia, the promenade has been flooded with damage to urban furniture. In the city of Valencia the strong wave has reached the houses of the urbanization La Casbah - not the first time - and has broken a stretch of the promenade. In Gandía the water pipes for showers and services have been affected in their entirety, as well as the furniture located near the sea line. The promenade has also suffered damage and must be levelled due to the sand displacement that has occurred. In the Illes Balears Cala Ratjada, located in Mallorca, it has been severely affected by a great flood by breaking one of the containment dikes. On the other hand, in Formentera, the beach of Ses Illetes, located within the Natural Park of Ses Illetes, numerous walkways have been pulled out by the force of the sea. On the island of Menorca, both Maó and Ciutadella, the two main cities, have been affected in places like Sant Lluis or Cala'n Bosch. Some defects that show the oblivion to which the management of the coast and the beaches of the Spanish State has been postponed. The Mediterranean coast has suffered more than half a century of unsustainable interventions, which give it extreme vulnerability and fragility when a maritime storm occurs; in this case exceptional and ordinary. The construction of poorly designed marinas and the overexploitation and waterproofing of watersheds, together with the reduction of water sediments, have led to a regression of the beaches and a constant damage to coastal infrastructure. The constant interventions of regeneration of the beaches through dredges and construction of spurs have led to the regression of the population and algae nurseries, the periodic alteration of marine ecosystems, seriously damaging fishing activity and a modification of the morphology of the coast. An action that obviates a global view of the problem and the necessary modification of the model of water management and of the cracks of the watersheds and which, moreover, are imposed without any prior study of environmental impact or consultation to the institutions involved, imposing, therefore, a project of regeneration of the short-sea coast, with great economic costs and that, moreover, does not ensure the regeneration of beaches and mortgages the policy of reorganization of the coast. The actions through dredging and sand movements and the fixing of sand by the construction of spikes represent a policy of applying pieces on the consequences of successive maritime storms, rather than addressing the causes of the problem of the regression of the coast. Therefore, we consider this real decree necessary but very insufficient, especially, as has already been said, in the rehabilitation of the coasts. A coastal plan, involving all institutional actors, as well as affected groups, fisheries and tourism, is essential for the sustainable management of the maritime coast. We can't waste any more time or we'll have the problem fixed and increased again. I'm done. We have near Congress the Teatro de la Zarzuela; some of you may have heard of a lyrical work, Marina, libretto by Francesc Camprodon and Emilio Arrieta, a Catalan and a Basque. I will end the first stanza with which the work begins: Costas las de Levante, beaches las de Lloret. We preserve, preserve and fight for a sustainable Mediterranean coast. Sustainability and republica! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u21	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u22	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are facing the validation of Royal Decree 2/2017 of 27 January, because there have been a number of exceptional situations, although they are exceptional situations that we know are regularly occurring and we are not able to predict what kind of damage they can cause. However, that does not take away so that we can act on the aspect of forecasting and that there are things that we can really do not to avoid the inevitable, not to prevent adverse weather conditions from causing damage and damage to the levels that we have been able to see, because that requires this royal decree, because these things can occur, but we can work precisely on forecasting. They have made a magnificent exhibition on the environment and on the maintenance and regeneration of beaches, which I subscribe to, because it is something in which we really have to invest and we must try that when these adverse conditions come they affect to a lesser extent because there is a preservation, I repeat, of that area. But neither should budgets be lowered, for example, in road maintenance, in signage, because when there is a great snowfall and there are people who get caught it is when we lack that our roads are in order and that our signage is the right one. I repeat, this happens because these are exceptional situations, but we can work in this direction in the foresight. On the other hand, in view of the actual decree, in view of the amounts, we are a little short of the fact that an estimate has not been made of the estimated cost of implementing this royal decree or of the number of possible beneficiaries. We understand that there should have been a hearing of affected people and especially the autonomous communities or municipalities that have been devastated by these events but, well, in the end, the royal decree here contains a number of aids, they are good, and we will support it, although we will ask the government to make an assessment of these aids so that they can be improved later. From here, I want to tell the minister and the government as a whole that we have to work on the forecast because the weather conditions cannot change them but today the weatherman works very well and knows how to tell us when they will arrive. If we did it right, another cock would sing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u23	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Alonso Cantorné has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u24	Thank you, President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to go into the details of whether one more euro or one less euro is to be provided, because the problem we are facing today is not just how much the bill will cost us, but, as you already have in this living decree, how long we will continue to contribute to environmental disasters. The Minister for Development in the Commission told us about rain, snow, wind, cold and exceptional waves; the question is whether they are really exceptional or from now on exceptional situations will become normal. The other day we read how our president of the government offered to mediate before Mr Trump. Since Mr Rajoy is willing to be an intermediary with the President of the United States, we call on him to make him understand what part of climate change he does not understand. I remember that in 2007, when Mr. Rajoy was not yet president of the government, he declared before the press - I will read textually an extract from a newspaper clearly pinpunela as is El País -: The president of the PP and candidate of this party for the presidency of the government, Mr. Mariano Rajoy, has today reduced importance to climate change by referring to a cousin of his, professor of Physics of the University of Seville. I of this matter - said Mr Rajoy - I know little - affirmed - but my cousin I suppose he will know. And then he said, "Hey, I brought here ten of the world's most important scientists and none of them guaranteed me the time I was going to make tomorrow in Seville." How can anyone say what's going to happen in the world in 300 years? We cannot turn this issue into the major global problem. In Mr Rajoy's view, there were other major problems in those days, such as energy sector problems and emissions problems. I imagine he was referring to Garoña, the electricity bill or energy poverty. Denying climate change must be an evil of the candidates, because you have already rectified and I imagine you have convinced your cousin. It must be recognized that the leaders of the PP have a broken hand in convincing US presidents, as former President Aznar did with Mr Bush in the Azores, an anticyclone zone. Therefore, now that Marcelo is no longer on the blue bench, we will put all our hopes on Mr Rajoy and today we will not talk about climate change, as we are confident that you, Mr Rajoy, will bring President Trump to his senses. These years of crisis, which you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, have already taken for granted, have served us to learn many lessons. I remember Mr Herrera explaining to them that it was better to invest in conventional railway lines than in Birds and airports without planes or when we noticed in a Commission, thanks to Mrs Colau, invited on Mr Herrera's proposal, that evictions were a crime, that evictions were a crime, I insist. We had lived the years of touch and touch, the real estate boom, the radials, the Castor, the transfers, all for progress. Suddenly, as a biblical plague, the financial crisis came and the bubble burst, there was no responsibility, it was like now, something exceptional, a catastrophe, it was only possible to fire and tighten belts and remove greix, for those who understand of dialogue operation; to leave us like the mojama in social services and rights. He blamed everyone. We had stretched out the arm more than the sleeve and lived above our possibilities. We didn't work very much and we paid too much. They are now talking about fallen towers, snow hoses in the chains, the forces of nature and, on the other hand, it is not said that in Spain barely 30% of the coast is free and the whole of it can be occupied in 2025. Today, our so-called bad progress has irreparably degraded many of the environments. The nineties of the 20th century were in Spain of weather calm and economic revival, circumstances that led to an explosive expansion of tourism, whose seeds had been sown in the previous decades. Much of our beaches and almost all the dunes were occupied without any plan. Many coastal sections were filled first with sea sands and then with quarry sands, which did not meet the appropriate size and texture requirements. The artificial beaches, unable to house the characteristic flora and fauna, were anchored in construction spikes and imposed the urban beaches flanked by promenades built in the domains of the sea, hurting the beaches with death as coastal ecosystems. Mr De la Serna and Mrs Tejerina have to be told that the clearly floodable areas are being flooded, a phrase which should not have caused any surprise and which should have been taken into account when closing down the gorges, draining water areas and invading dunes to build skyscrapers, golf courses and airports in spaces which have been stolen for private use and profit and which were previously common domains of all Spaniards. Let's tell the truth, the Costas Act, the new one, defends private interests against those of all Spaniards. There are 36,000 alleged occupations in the public domain of a total of 40,000. There are 3,000 chiringuitos, 1,700 industries and a thousand hotels. The 1998 Coast Law required demolitions starting in 2018, expenses that with its last reform have been postponed for our grandchildren to pay, but the reform involves huge potential expenses. We are spending, according to experts, about EUR 1 billion a year and will continue to rise as the sea level increases. To these will have to be added the opportunity costs for loss of environmental value of our coastal landscape and, above all, the expenses of cash and sound public money in order to protect our private interests, which is the option that you defend. We are at the gates of another record year by number of visitors. Airlines rub their hands. Hotel reservations are windy in the aft. Green jackets have deconvoked their strike but continue their struggle. And now we're all running, because summer is coming and we need sand on the beaches. Mr Esteban, the other day in the Commission, was telling us about the film tomorrow to define Mr De la Serna's story. I, as a Catalan, am an expert connoisseur of the Marmot Day movie. We will fix the sand and we will fix the sea walks, which is essential, until the storms return and again start again. I, of you, would leave a fixed departure to fix the disasters resulting from our environmental and urban laws. Ladies and gentlemen, are you aware that investments in the Ministry of Development must have the priority of moving towards maintenance in the improvement, whether in railway, conventional or road lines, not in new infrastructures needed? As the PP's lords usually remind us, Spain is at the head in kilometres of highways, high-speed lines, airport tracks, empty houses, oversized ports with stables in struggle and who want to negotiate, and to have, yes, the longest flags than anyone else. You, who say you love your country so much, do more than patch up, essential today, but be brave and do politics, change the laws. We make a proposal to you: why not create an interdisciplinary committee of experts to look for medium- and long-term solutions? Ladies and gentlemen, we're playing the coast, we're playing the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, we are playing the country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u25	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Ábalos Meco has the floor. Mr Ábalos Meco: Thank you, Madam President. Very good morning. The aid that we are dealing with today, through this royal decree that has been presented to us for validation, refers - as has been repeatedly said here - to the damage caused by the recent time that has struck several communities and provinces and that has caused the death of at least six people. These aid included contributions - the Minister has detailed them - and economic aid for housing, premises, industrial holdings. It is true that much municipal work, many services and supplies will also need to be reconstructed, and in that regard, it seems to us very good that this group made a proposal in its day that local governments, the local governments, should be able to use their surplus to cope with these works. In general, as an initiative, it seems good to us, although the aid could have been something else; it is short depending on the damage caused. Some examples can be given, such as the interior of the province of Castellón, which has been incommunicado for several days, or the specific area of Requena-Utiel, in Valencia, where livestock facilities have had many access problems; the roads will have to do them entirely; there has been no possibility of access to farms and therefore it has been difficult to provide food to animals and there have been many animal deaths in livestock farms; livestock farmers have had to make significant disbursements for the heavy machinery they do not have. In short, they have had considerable expenses. Let's think that in some areas the snow thickness has been between 70 and 110 centimeters, which is not normal there. There have also been failures in the network, in electricity supply, and this, in turn, has led to further losses. Therefore, in the area of agriculture and livestock, for forthcoming aid, we should try to raise this limit to at least EUR 15,000; we should consider terminating the payment of the IBI without the limitations laid down in the decree. It is right that the decree should provide compensation from the State General Budgets for the forgiveness of the IBI. It would also have been desirable to have a bonus in social security contributions for a period of time - not envisaged in the decree - and that the assessments of insurance and compensation for real damage on land should be made on the basis of commercial requirements, regardless of the franchise established. Nor do loans with subsidised interest arise, nor is it a very particular issue that has to do with providing aid for fungicides used to avoid further damage to production and planting. As I said before, we are in favour of the introduction that has been made for the financing of works by local administrations, but beyond all this the important thing of the aid - which is very good, I insist - is that it can be processed and be received by the beneficiaries. In this regard, I take the opportunity to regret that another previous decree, Royal Decree-Law 12/2015, failed to implement the expected benefits. I have here an answer to a written question from my colleague, Miguel Ángel Heredia, who said that the subsidies could not be dealt with because many of the calls are not even made. It has been a while since then and it is regrettable that aid which is supposed to have been implemented with some urgency could not be collected at the moment. So we welcome these aids, but we have yet to celebrate their fulfilment. Beyond these measures aimed at alleviating damage, I believe that there is always a previous space for public policy. A space for anticipation and prevention that provides greater security for people and their property. In other words, the disastrous consequences of these phenomena could have been cushioned with greater political will, a political will that translates into public policy but also in the effective management of the resources of the administrations. Yesterday we adopted a motion urging the Government to improve coordination systems between bodies of the General Government of the State and the rest of the public administrations in order to ensure the viability of the road network, to assess and correct deficiencies in the implementation of the winter contingency action plans, to increase the number of means, etc. [[The Lord]] It was just yesterday, so I don't tire them, but ultimately greater efficiency in the management of regular resources, greater coordination among administrations. It is not often a question of resources, but of working with existing ones, and it is clear from public policy that we have great shortcomings. For example, there is an urgent need for the Government to fulfil its commitments to flood prevention plans. At some point there have been floods, but any day can be worse; this is so. We have pending in the Valencian Community the flood prevention works that affect Jucar and Segura, which have been paralysed for a long time. We also need to try to mitigate the effects of works that are clearly damaging our coastline. There is no protection of our coastline, or rather, what there is is a policy of unprotection that we were also able to see in the 2013 debate on the Coast Law, that law that was called protection when what it does is clearly unprotect. Therefore, when something like this happens - which is not that it has been exaggerated - any temporary means that our beaches run out of sand and year after year you have to replenish sand, waste the money, then another temporary comes and there is nothing left of sand. This is because there is no protection policy, rather there is an aggressive policy off our coast, which, as has also been said here, goes on to bring the work closer and closer to the sea itself. There are harbour works that in the case of Valencia it is evident that they are taking all the beaches of the south and that it is already affecting the constructions, some of which would not even have to be. We are therefore questioning something that is a jewel to us in our economic activity: tourism. With this policy of sanding and making ports, that the rivers do not reach the sea, in the end happens what happens. It's not a temporary problem, it's not a meteorological issue; it's a structural issue. The Government should therefore seriously consider, with regard to the Plan for the Prevention of Floods with regard to river basin demarcations, a policy of greater protection of the coastline that goes beyond mere sand dredging. It is time to protect our beaches, especially those of the Mediterranean. By the way, we will have to deal with or take into account that flood risk map, which is still almost unheard of. So welcome the aid to alleviate damage, but it would be better if they committed themselves to an ambitious policy that would be able to avoid further catastrophes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Ábalos. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Camps Devesa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am setting out the position of the People's Party with regard to the validation of the Royal Decree-Law by which urgent measures are taken to alleviate the damage caused by the latest storms. Ladies and gentlemen, both the rainy and maritime storms accompanied by a strong wind last December, which affected the provinces of Malaga, Cadiz, Huelva, Almería and Albacete, as well as the Valencian Community and the Region of Murcia, and more recently the different episodes of heavy rains, winds, snow and coastal phenomena, which have affected the Autonomous Communities of Valencia, Balearic Islands, Catalonia and the Region of Murcia, as well as the province of Albacete, are envisaged in this royal decree as causing the damage that is intended to be alleviated. Ladies and gentlemen, these storms of rain, cold and snow, especially the last of them, exceeded all reasonable forecasts and the State Meteorological Agency itself considered them exceptional from a meteorological and climatic point of view. In fact, according to Aemet himself - I say to the honourable Members who have said that there has been a lack of prevention - there is no record of such an extensive and intense time in the last thirty years at least, and it can be said that this snow situation was historic and that it also occurred in particular where snow had not usually occurred, affecting a large extent of the country and with a truly high volume and intensity. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether this is the cause of the climate change to which some have referred, but I am from Benidorm and can assure you that in my fifty-three years of life I have never seen snow on Benidorm beach, a temporary one that also lasted for forty-eight hours. It should be recalled, ladies and gentlemen, that, together with this exceptionality in the meteorological phenomena, there have been other unusual competing events, such as the fall of high-voltage towers, which explain much of the consequences, of what happened later and which I will not stop to report because it has already been the subject of debate in this Congress on several occasions and is well known. And you are well-known, Minister, because this government has not stopped giving explanations and information, before and after the temporary ones, both at ministerial headquarters and on the ground - you have remembered one of your lords with a picture that you have shown in this rostrum - as well as in this Congress of Deputies. The Minister of Development has been questioned and has appeared in the Commission and has also done so who today presents on behalf of the Government this royal decree-law, the Minister of the Interior. It has been explained in detail, ladies and gentlemen, that the preventive means have been properly activated, that they have been complied with in the various protocols of action which, as you know, were approved by the previous Socialist Government and updated some of them, but which, without doubt and after the events, as the Government itself has already announced, will have to be further improved. We acted in the face of the emergency with the utmost technical rigour and with the maximum coordination of public services, to whose workers we wish to thank again from the People's Parliamentary Group for the work they carried out under extremely harsh conditions. Many thanks to all the Civil Protection and Emergency personnel, the Civil Guard, the Police, the Directorate-General for Traffic, the Directorate-General for Roads, the Military Emergency Unit and also to the troops of the rest of the administrations, who worked without regard to the time and weather conditions to help all those affected. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party Government resolved these incidents as soon as possible, which affected thousands of citizens; it did not look elsewhere and did not avoid assuming responsibilities, as it did under other similar, albeit less serious, circumstances, other governments. But it is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, to act diligently to remedy immediately the effects of circumstances such as this, it is also necessary to act speedily to support the serious disruption of the living conditions of the population, the full restoration of essential public services and, ultimately, the recovery of normalcy in the affected areas, which is what the Government is doing in a tremendously agile with the adoption of this royal decree-law which will have the support of my parliamentary group for its validation, as it could not otherwise be. I am surprised, ladies and gentlemen, by the reference made by some of you to the fact that there is no quantitative assessment of the damage to be remedied. It would have been enough for them to see the documentation that the Government submitted to this House, which entered on 1 February, which clearly delimits the budgetary impact of this damage: EUR 193,300,000. And I was even more surprised than some of your ladies and gentlemen, in particular by showing a picture from this rostrum, have said that there are no specific lines for helping populations in terms of rehabilitation on the part of their coastline. They also mentioned a village in the province of Castellón, Almenara. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the papers should be looked at better. Here, within the economic memory, figure: Castellón, Almenara, recovery of the promenade of Almenara, 2 million euros. It appears in this economic memory, Your Honor, it would be enough for you to have looked at the papers. [[Applauds]] But it does not stay there, I mention it as an example of all the peoples of Catalonia, Valencia, Murcia and Almería who appear. Your Honor, you're from Castellón; I'm from Alicante. It would have been enough to look at the report to see that not only Almenara, but Vinaròs, Benicarló, Peñíscola, Alcalà de Xivert, Torreblanca, Cabanes, Oropesa, Almazora, Burriana, Nules, La Llosa and Moncofar also accompany the people of Almenara,, as well as all the other provinces of Valencia, Alicante, Almería, the Region of Murcia and Catalonia that do not give me time to recite at this time. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, from the speech that some of you have made, it has not just become clear to me whether you are in favour of or against this coastal regeneration aid. Of the speech made by the representative of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, I do not know whether he wanted everything that the maritime storm has taken or that stays the way it is. And of what the representative of Podemos has done, a speech with his opinion on environmental measures, it is also not clear to me whether or not he is going to support this royal decree-law of aid to natural and legal persons who have suffered damage under these times. I want to make clear the position of my group: we are, Minister, we are going to support the validation of this royal decree-law because we cannot understand anyone asking for aid not to be approved for personal damage to homes and goods, to industrial, commercial, agricultural, maritime-fishery, tourism and other services, to agricultural and livestock farms, Mr Ábalos, or for personal benefits or property of natural or legal persons. Or can anyone object to the setting of tax benefits on a general basis for all those who have suffered damage under these times, as well as reductions of the same kind for agricultural entities? Or can anyone oppose the establishment and determination of the system of cooperation and aid to local corporations? Or can anyone oppose the introduction of an exemption regime in the case of investments made to repair damages? The People's Parliamentary Group, Minister, of course not. That is why I reiterate again our vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Camps. [[The Minister of the Interior, Zoido Alvarez, asks for the floor]] Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u29	Mr. President, thank you very much. I just wanted to thank the tone that has been used by each and every speaker, regardless of some of the differences that have emerged. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u30	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u31	We turn to the next item on the debate on the whole of the draft law on public sector contracts transposing into Spanish law the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2014/23/EU and 2014/24/EU of 26 February 2014. I would like to inform you that the Joint Parliamentary and Confederal Groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea have called for the passage of this bill. That request shall be put to the vote, if any, after the amendment as a whole. For the presentation of the bill, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is bringing to this House today the draft law on public sector contracts transposing into Spanish law the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2014/23/EU and 2014/24/EU of 26 February 2014. It is a very extensive, prolific and elaborate bill with which the Government not only fulfils the obligation to transpose the above-mentioned Community directives into national law, but also seeks to give the most appropriate response so that the rule is adapted to the needs and organizational pattern of the public sector of our State of self-government. As your ladies and gentlemen know, the regulation of various aspects of public procurement is not something that is addressed for the first time by the government of Mariano Rajoy. Already in the X Legislature we have undertaken various reforms with which we have tried to improve the management of public administrations in general and in the field of recruitment in particular. However, the adoption of the above-mentioned Community directives has given us the opportunity to introduce new requirements arising from these directives, to improve some of the issues that have been adopted in previous years and even, in some respects, to go beyond what is required of us by the European Union, all with the aim of providing the Spanish administrations with a useful tool to ensure that public sector procurement complies with the most advanced standards in matters such as transparency, efficiency, free competition, simplification of procedures, the use of new technologies or social and environmental responsibility. We must not forget that when we talk about public sector recruitment we are referring to an economic universe of great magnitude and that as such it has an impact on a multitude of factors in the life and economic activity of businesses and citizens. That is now more than enough reason for the public authorities to be extremely careful in their regulation and supervision. Spanish public procurement is carried out through approximately 125,000 annual contracts, which is a very important figure. This means that an average of 24,000 contracts are being implemented each week, which in economic terms account for just over 10% of the country's gross domestic product. Such a large number of contracts obviously require strict regulation and control in order not to fall into the risk of administrative chaos and also require that such regulation be inspired by a number of principles that ensure the correct performance of all actors in the public sector who are empowered to formalise contracts. We must not forget that between this very high number of contracts there are very different types and natures; there are those that involve the public coffers only a few tens of euros and they are mobilized hundreds or even billions of euros, contracts which in turn are awarded by a large number of contracting bodies of a legal nature and of different dimensions, from small municipalities to large public enterprise bodies belonging to the General Administration of the State or to the autonomous communities. This is where the first challenge of the law arises, bearing in mind that the rule must affect all public administrations without distinction. Indeed, the Government's obligation is to establish a framework of action that is useful and binding on all administrations and entities that depend on them, from respect for their autonomy and trying to harmonize the different points of view from the coordination of the main actors involved. Aware - as it cannot be otherwise - of the peculiarities of the territorial organization of the Spanish State, which is the essence of the nation in which we live, this bill adapts to the constitutional distribution of competences, and this has been made clear by the opinion issued by the Council of State. In addition, the draft law provides for the establishment of a cooperation committee on public procurement involving the General Administration of the State, the Autonomous Communities and local authorities. I would like to stress that the establishment of this cooperation committee means that for the first time there is an institutionalized channel of cooperation in the field of public procurement. In addition, it has been assigned very important functions, such as the development of a proposal for a national strategy for the supervision of public procurement, which will allow the peculiarities of all levels of government to be reflected in this monitoring action to be carried out throughout the State. The above-mentioned national monitoring strategy for the entire Spanish public sector should be formally approved by the Consultative Board on Public Procurement of the State. The Board, through a new Public Procurement Supervisory Office, is the body to which the law confers the competence of supervision and good practices in public procurement, coordinating such action with those carried out in its field by the other competent public administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said earlier, the draft law on public sector contracts arises from the dual need to transpose into Spanish law the package of Community directives already adopted three years ago in the European Union on recruitment and to bring this harmonisation with European legislation into line with our own concerns about recruitment and our State of self-government. Indeed, at the end of February 2014, the three Community procurement directives were adopted. The first is Directive 2014/23/EU on the award of concession contracts, and the other two replace existing standards since 2004, Directive 2014/24/EU on public procurement and Directive 2014/25/EU on the procurement of entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors. Spain is lagging behind the deadline for incorporating the three directives into the Spanish legal system due largely to the political situation following the two calls for general elections, which paralysed the usual legislative activity for almost a year. This delay over the deadline set for the transposition of the public procurement directives has led the Commission to initiate infringement proceedings against Spain, but the same is true - and it is not to seek any consolation - of 20 other Member States, which have not complied with the deadline. Due to the open infringement procedure and the need not to delay the adoption of the new recruitment laws, one of the first decisions of the new Government was the referral of this bill to the courts. In fact, aware of the complexity of the task, and already before the new directives were finally adopted, the Government had begun to prepare and process two preliminary draft transposition laws that would replace the existing consolidated text of the Public Sector Contracts Act and the existing Law on Procurement Procedures in the Water, Energy, Transport and Postal Services Sectors. Each of the new texts incorporates the relevant Community Directive into Spanish law, while the content of the new Directive on the award of concession contracts is incorporated in a majority of the draft law on public sector contracts. The importance of not delaying the incorporation of certain aspects of the new directive into the Spanish legal system was what led the Government to amend the consolidated text of the existing Contracts Act through three specific laws that were in parliamentary procedure in the X Legislature. In this way, it was possible to approve a new regulation of the prohibitions to contract, as well as the new regulation of the accreditation by the employer of its economic and financial solvency, incorporating the possibility that the contracting body would require as a criterion of solvency in order to be able to access an award the fulfilment of the average period of payment to suppliers in force in our country. In this way, the Government aims to combat the lateness of large companies with its subcontractors. Finally, the new regulation of contracts reserved for special employment centres, integration firms or in line with the framework of protected employment programmes was also approved in advance. In addition, by agreement of the Council of Ministers of 16 December, the abolition of the procedure negotiated without publicity on the basis of amounts was advanced for the State public sector before the adoption of the new contract law, in response to a repeated request from the European Commission in this regard. So what are these rules that have already been adopted in past months and the bill that we are debating in this House? The Government, in line with the provisions of the Community directives, intends to involve all public administrations and their various entities, and in general society as a whole, mainly companies, in a process of modernising procurement procedures; a process that seeks to maximize transparency, in line with various initiatives that have been launched over the past five years, convinced that the greater this - transparency - the more difficult it will be for episodes of fraud and corruption to occur, such as, unfortunately, those that have occurred in Spain for too long. On the other hand, we seek to improve the efficiency of public procurement, as this will ensure that the best quality standards in the works and services provided are compatible with the setting of an appropriate price, so that the contracts do not have a negative effect on the public accounts of the country. Thirdly, the Government intends to simplify as much as possible the procurement procedures so as to facilitate access to them by as many companies as possible. We are convinced that improving competition between companies benefits the economy and improves the quality of work done and services provided to citizens. This is particularly interesting for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are sometimes prevented from going to certain tenders because they lack sufficient resources or information. Finally, the Government's objective is to comply adequately with what the new Community public procurement directives point out while at the same time correcting certain dysfunctions detected with the application of the current legislation. In order to achieve these objectives, which I am sure is shared by all the groups in this House, the Public Sector Contracts Bill introduces important developments on existing legislation. First, it makes procurement procedures simpler and more agile, providing greater facilities for bidders to access public procurement and reducing the administrative burdens they bear. For this to be possible, one of the concrete measures included in the draft law under way is the generalization of the use of the responsible declaration as a simpler way for the company to certify that it meets the prerequisites for access to a particular public tender. So far, a large part of the invitations to tender has requested the submission of a large number of documents, sometimes quite complex, to prove that the undertakings concerned fulfil the conditions or conditions for access to the award. This often discourages smaller companies, which have fewer resources to meet these pre-agreement requirements. With a view to ensuring that this was not an obstacle to limiting competition in procurement, the Government had already adopted in 2013 a reform of the Entrepreneurs Support Act, which established the responsible declaration as a means for companies to access a public tender without the need to submit at an initial stage all the required documentation. That legal change has been working for construction contracts with an estimated value of less than EUR 1 million and for service and supply contracts of less than EUR 90,000. As from the entry into force of the new law on public sector contracts, the responsible declaration is generalised to all procedures regardless of the amount and type of contract. In this way, documentation proving compliance with the requirements must only be submitted when the undertaking obtains the award or if the contracting authority so requests if the contracting authority observes any irregularity or indication of fraud which would advise it to require such documentation at any time in the proceedings. In order to achieve greater reduction of administrative burdens and to ensure greater clarity and guarantee of procedure, the new law establishes a single model of responsible declaration for almost all procurement procedures, the so-called Single European Procurement Document, which facilitates procurement by overcoming language and border barriers and can be reused in several tenders. In addition, where supporting documentation is required, the law provides for the first time that public administrations may not in any case request documents already in their possession or in the possession of other Member States of the European Union because they are contained in any national database. Another way to improve the transparency of tenders while reducing administrative burdens by making contracts simpler, cheaper and more open to greater competition, especially by small and medium-sized enterprises, is by promoting e-procurement. The draft law before us makes it mandatory to use electronic means in virtually all procurement procedures and at all stages of procurement from the time the rule comes into force. I would like to recall here that our country has been at the forefront of e-government for many years and that its use is widespread by citizens and businesses in facilitating society's relations with the public administration. We cannot forget that the simplicity provided by e-government provides an incentive for business investment. In addition, in the case of Spain, companies are taking advantage of the technological innovations that have served for the rapid implementation of the electronic invoice in our country. This is a model, e-invoicing, which, by the way, is the subject of attention by other European countries to modernise their own management methods. On the basis of this extensive experience, the draft law develops the use of electronic means throughout all stages of procurement procedures, guaranteeing the principles of advertising, transparency, competition and agility. By way of example, the law provides that both advertising of the invitation to tender and the award of contracts must be carried out by electronic means; free and direct access to the specifications and other documents specific to the procurement process; communications between the Administration and the companies, etc. I would like to point out that the public sector procurement platform now offers the possibility of fully electronic procurement procedures since 2016 free of charge. This will allow us to conduct tendering procedures by exclusively electronic means from the very moment the law is passed. In this way, Spain will move ahead with the European Union's forecasts, as Directive 2014/24/EU sets the deadline for October 2018. It is also important to highlight the introduction of a new procurement procedure: the simplified open procedure; an alternative to the missing negotiated procedure without publicity by amount, which was widely used for its agility, but which was at risk of being misused and sometimes irregular due to the absence of publicity. Faced with this, the new simplified open procedure will be equally agile, as it can be awarded in less than a month, but it will also have all the guarantees of publicity, as its call will be published on the Internet, and all entrepreneurs who wish to do so will be able to present to it. Another development in this draft law on public sector contracts is that it includes a number of measures that promote transparency in procurement, which serves the purpose of combating fraud and corruption. These measures, in addition to the measures mentioned above promoting e-procurement and the use of the Internet to publicize calls and invitations to tender, include the inclusion in the scope of law enforcement of those social actors that are financed through public budgets. This measure is in line with the content of the transparency law adopted in the X Legislature, which requires certain obligations from entities that are financed mostly from public funds. In this case, all of them will be obliged, as from the entry into force of the new law, to award their contracts in a public procedure with all guarantees of transparency. On the other hand, the draft law that we are discussing today substantially expands the public information that all contracting bodies must publish in the contractor's profile, so that it can be accessed through the Internet not only by extensive information on the call for tenders, but also by other information that is relevant in the procurement procedure such as the number of tenderers, as well as all contracts that they make, have made or intend to make in the future, including full information on them as well as the filing of appeals or amendments to contracts. [[Rumors]] All this will allow for thorough control of the procedures, both by citizens in general and by the companies concerned or by the bodies responsible for monitoring and controlling recruitment. It should also be noted that for the first time in the regulation of Spanish public procurement, a specific anti-corruption precept is introduced, as transposed by the European Directive. This article obliges contracting bodies to take appropriate measures to combat fraud, corruption and favouritism, as well as to prevent, detect and resolve conflicts of interest that may arise in any public contract. The rule also includes new cases in which it is prohibited to engage with the Administration, as well as the limitation of cases in which the so-called negotiated procedure can be used, in order to prevent the fraudulent recruitment of certain contractors. I would like to point out that the conditions of the so-called management commissions are tightened, that they are now called commissions, and that they allow an Administration to direct an entity or a public undertaking to carry out an activity. By introducing new requirements for the performance of these tasks, it is a matter of preventing contracting bodies from violating the principle of free competition and equal treatment, harming other undertakings which may be interested in carrying out these activities. Another of the highlights of this bill is that it promotes SMEs' access to recruitment through several articles. I have already referred to issues that favour the presence in the procurement processes of these companies, such as generalization in the use of e-procurement and, by extension, the use of the Internet throughout the process; the creation of the new simplified open procedure or the extension to virtually all cases of procurement of the responsible declaration. I would also like to point out that the law will encourage from its entry into force that contracts are divided into lots whenever possible, so that public administrations and other bodies affected by the law will have to justify why they do not do so in certain auctions, when they previously had to explain why they did so. This batch division will facilitate access to tenders for undertakings which, because of their smaller size, face greater difficulties in competing for certain contracts of higher value or volume. In addition, some measures to support SMEs already advanced in the Entrepreneurs Act are incorporated into the law, such as the possibility that public administrations may require in the prospectuses, as conditions of economic and financial solvency, that firms opting for award pay their contractors and suppliers within a time limit set by ministerial order. In addition, the new contract law introduces as a novelty that subcontractors will not be able to waive their right to late interest, thus creating a specific guarantee that they will receive the appropriate amounts within the set deadlines. [[The Rumors Continue]] Another development introduced by this new law is that it puts public procurement at the service of innovation. The aim is that recruitment can be used as a tool to encourage innovative business activity and thus economic growth. In this way, innovative solutions developed to meet the needs of the public sector will be incorporated into works, supplies and services in order to benefit all citizens. The new partnership procedure for innovation is called on to channel this process. Finally, another major innovation offered by this law is the introduction of social and environmental considerations as new criteria in the award of contracts. These criteria may be required by public sector entities both during the tendering of works or services and during the execution of the contract, and in the latter case by favouring the implementation of measures to promote equality between men and women at work or the reconciliation of work and family life. On the other hand, contracting bodies are required for the first time to take appropriate measures to ensure that contractors comply with the applicable environmental, social or labour obligations that are included in our legal system or in the collective agreements concerned. Finally, as I have stated before, special consideration is given to the treatment of persons with disabilities through the reservation of contracts to special employment centres which, as you know, must have at least 70 % of staff with disabilities, or in the establishment of a prohibition on hiring in companies which do not meet the legal requirement that at least 2 % of their employees be workers with disabilities. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, I finish my speech this morning by stressing that the draft law tightens the amendments to contracts in a more demanding way than what is provided for in Directive 2014/24/EU. This directive is in turn a consequence of the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and considers that amendments to contracts whose content, in the event of having been part of the award procedure, could not have made the successful tenderer different from the one which was the winner of the tender. Thus, the Government Bill states that the Council of State shall draw up an opinion on amendments exceeding 20% of the total value in contracts, both of the public administrations and of the other entities affected by the law where they are subject to harmonised regulation. In addition, the Public Sector Contracts Act shall require the publication of the said amendment in the contractor's profile. This obligation, coupled with the also novel possibility that special remedies may be available against illegal modifications, makes any type of contract modification very restricted, which will prevent it from being used to arbitrarily favour certain companies. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is submitting to the House this draft law on public sector contracts, with the aim of providing administrations and companies with a new legal framework in which to develop their contractual relations so that they are more transparent, dynamic and efficient. We are convinced that the bill we are debating here today will modernise the procurement procedures, while making them more open to competition, and in that regard will also be fairer for businesses, more beneficial for citizens, who are the recipients of the works and services they hire, and less costly for public administrations, which will also result in significant savings in their budgets. [[Rumors]] I sincerely believe that it is a good law, which is perfectly in line with the demands of the European Union and, above all, responds to the objective needs of the Spanish public sector; it also gives an adequate response to the demands of quality and efficiency on the part of the public sector that Spanish society deserves. In any case, like any bill, it is certainly better, and the Government is open to the proposals of this House so that we can all incorporate into our system the best law possible today. Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u33	Thank you very much, Minister. An amendment to the full refund has been submitted to this bill. In defence of the amendment tabled by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Vendrell Gardeñes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u34	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. The debate that we bring to this House today with the amendment as a whole is not a technical debate on how to regulate public procurement, it is a deeply political debate on the rights of citizens. Article 41 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union guarantees the right to good administration, the right to public affairs, the affairs of citizens, to be managed effectively, impartially and by an effective administration. Recruitment should be based on public ethics and should be a tool to promote corporate, social and environmental responsibility. The European directives propose a new way of understanding public procurement on the basis of these objectives, the so-called strategic procurement. The draft Public Sector Contracts Act, which transposes the European directives on contracts and concessions into Spanish law, is fundamental and of great importance and cannot be dealt with urgently and in the debate in the Commission. Just one fact: It accounts for 10% and some sources even speak of 15% of Spanish GDP, as the minister said. This law is dealt with urgently by the delay in the transposition of directives. We too are in a hurry, but we must do well and we are not the only one, because there are many other countries that have not yet transposed the directive. And let no one be mistaken, we are in favour of these European directives and their necessary transposition because they contain important guarantee elements, and what happens is that we do not think it is properly transposed. [[The Rumors Continue]] Why an amendment to the whole? For what I was saying to you, because we believe that the Government has not properly transposed these directives and that, despite what is said in the preamble to the law and what the Minister has now said, the main objectives of the directives are not correctly, systematically and coherently incorporated into the package. And it is a difficult problem to solve only with partial amendments because we think it is a structural problem of the law. Moreover, in the passage from draft to draft, the law submitted to public information and informed by the Council of State the text has worsened and has gone back on important issues such as major regressive changes and the possibility that contracting bodies could establish their own procurement rules, abandoning the initial objective of a common legal regime for the entire public sector, or the subject of the special recourse to which I shall then refer. No one in that period of public information asked him, and the question would be: Who has influenced such important changes? Therefore, we think that the bill represents a step backwards in the fight against corruption and irregularities - we do not say it, we say Transparency International -, it does not represent a real advance towards public procurement that promotes environmental and labour social responsibility - we do not say it, social organizations say it - and it does not modernise public procurement, it is too continuous with the current regulations and it is centralist and recentralizing. The first question. We are tired of seeing cases of commission collection in exchange for auctions or auctions in exchange for money to pay for election campaigns. We're sick of it. Gürtel case, Bárcenas case, Noos case, Púnica case, Imelsa case, Taula case and, of course, in Catalonia the Mercuri cases and the 3% case. What do all these cases have in common? Three things: commissioning, public procurement fraud and irregular financing of the PP, not all of them, in some of them also from Convergence. Obviously, this does not mean that all public procurement is going to be bad in Spain, it would be missing more, but the Commission itself has said so. The Commission has said that in Spain we have a problem of irregularities in public procurement. The question is: Is this bill up to the problems of public procurement in Spain? No, and not for the following reasons because, as I told you, it is maintained that each body can establish its own procurement instructions instead of a common legal regime. In practice this involves thousands of concrete instructions, from companies or public foundations to dictate conditions of award very to the extent, seventy, and it seems false that we say that to them, against the unity of the market and also believe that against legal certainty. What do you want, cases like Aquamed to happen again, for example? An open door to fraud and corruption and also a barrier for small businesses. In Spain we have historically had the record of modified, budgets down to win the contest that then increase in execution, and that is where much of the corruption is. The draft law introduces the possibility of free modification of non-harmonised contracts and, although controls are maintained when more than 20%, we believe that this is a very serious step backwards and that it is another open door to fraud, corruption and another barrier to small businesses. The dual recourse, the special recourse to ad hoc administrative tribunals, to which contracts with harmonised regulation are subject from certain amounts, is maintained; courts that have demonstrated their effectiveness and speed, and the other way is maintained, that of the courts - the contentious-administrative - with slow and lengthy trials of between six and eight years. It is imperative that a bidder be able to appeal to the special courts in the event of irregularities, and that appeals can be resolved quickly. Another door open to fraud and corruption. [[Rumors]] Transparency. They have eliminated the negotiated procurement procedure without advertising, and that is positive. On the other hand, there is no progress in transparency in smaller contracts; the possibility of hiring directly and without advertising is kept below certain amounts. In Spain we have a serious problem, because half of public procurement, according to the European Commission, has a single bidder. Where there should be flexibility, you maintain the long procedures and obstacles to the very functioning of companies, and where there should be greater control, you impose flexibility. Nor is it a law that favors social and corporate responsibility. We don't think that's the way. Public procurement can enhance labour and social rights or contribute to job insecurity. Companies with a social and solidarity economy and cooperativeism with specific lots, for example, should be encouraged. But this bill does not recognize social and environmental criteria as award criteria, only in the event of a tie. It is not the same to put as criteria of the energy supply contract that there are no cuts to people who suffer from energy poverty, as the City of Barcelona has done, or to dispense with these kinds of social criteria. Should small and medium-sized enterprises be protected? Yes, small enterprises subcontracted by large enterprises must be able to receive payments directly from contracting bodies, for example. It is essential that it be incorporated into the ban on hiring companies operating in tax havens. - Anyone who disappoints the country cannot compete with companies that meet their obligations. It is centralist and re-centralizing and, as always, take advantage of any law to centralize. They are described as basic regulatory procedures in detail, violating, in our view, the very doctrine of the Constitutional Court. [[The Rumors Continue]] In this draft, which comes from when you had absolute majority, and it is noted, what we propose is to remake that bill with the dialogue of all parliamentary groups, not only in the Commission, because it must be avoided that this is a patch law, that it is a Frankenstein law. Another bill is essential to generate a culture of public procurement, based on ethics, social and environmental responsibility. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u35	I give the floor to Mrs. Honorato Chulián.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u36	Firstly, we are pleased to have here the debate on the draft contract law which I believe this House should have, to put itself as a crucial law within its State, as has been put on the table by both the minister and my previous colleagues. Today we are here calling for this project to be returned for responsibility and consistency with a modern European regulation to which we would have to apply. the law on public sector contracts, as I said before, is not any law, and it cannot be analyzed this text of the bill without taking into account that in Spain there is a critical situation, a situation of widespread corruption, which has in some way nested in administrative contracting. The current Public Procurement Act has not been effective and has not been able to prevent these cases of corruption and, therefore, it is necessary to do something absolutely different to be effective in this fight against corruption. But the text we have on the table seems to us to be a certain continuation of the previous text. It is a far-reaching text that, as I say, will not allow us to deal with this corruption and will not bet on modern, transparent and European procurement. With regard to the legislative technique, first of all, the Council of State itself spoke in its report that we are dealing with a far-reaching text, a text which participates in what has been called the devaluation of laws, of obscure terminology, of an excessively prolific nature and which sometimes includes declarations and letters which do not really generate legal norms. This is what the Council of State says, and it is that the Government has chosen to maintain in this draft a structure of the Public Sector Recruitment Act that comes from 2007, an extensive structure of up to 340 articles, with 40 additional provisions and multiple internal references that make its text complex to decipher. We believe that corruption survives much more in dark, complex, and raging texts, with a lack of efficient legal resources and endless procedures. Secondly, and with regard to the very concept of transposition, directives are regulations which require the transposition of objectives into law, but such transposition implies a concrete and practical operation in the law of the Member State to which it applies. What happens in this draft is that the directive is copied and housed in different parts of the draft contract law, but it does not establish an operational mechanics or its practical implementation of how it is carried out in our order and in our specific procedure. Thirdly, it seems to us that it lacks modernity and a European vision. The directives commit, as the Minister has said, all Member States to reach the public procurement scenario before October 2018, and it is true that there are certain provisions related to e-procurement, but they are ultimately resident in three provisions, in an uncoordinated manner and do not integrate into the procurement procedure itself. [[Rumors]] And I will cite three cases: for example, with regard to public tender openings, there is no indication of how such a transit is made to electronic procurement; or, for example, meetings at the recruitment desk; or, for example, the terms and deadlines are always calculated on the basis of written paper. We believe that a fully electronic, efficient and time-bound system for the submission of simple short and mechanical tenders would naturally make it possible to extinguish direct procurement and switch to other types of much more transparent tendering procedures, with much more possibilities for competition from local suppliers. Fourthly, there is a lack of criteria related to equality. We believe that this text should have advocated elements that help to eliminate inequalities between men and women. Already the Council of State itself spoke of the poor and poor gender memory that accompanied the preliminary draft law, and moreover - and I quote textually - the report itself of the Council of State tells us that, except as mentioned in articles 145 and 200, nothing says the text on encouraging the recruitment of women's enterprises, when more than half of the enterprises created since the beginning of the economic crisis have been created by them. In the same vein, we are also surprised that the text that comes to us is a text with a sexist language and without respect for gender equality. [[The Rumors Continue]] Fifthly and lastly, we also miss the creation of a commissioner who would depend on the General Courts and not on the Central Recruitment Board, in that capacity to monitor and control the conflict of interest and to prevent corruption. It seems to us essential that this be done not from a body within the structure of the Ministry of Finance itself, but rather from an independent body, and that it be accountable to this House, not to the Executive. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u37	Your Honor, one second to order silence, because you don't listen. It is hard for me to listen to the speaker, take a look at the murmuring in the House. Go ahead, Mrs. Honorato.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u38	Thank you very much, President. In conclusion, it is not a question of amending or deleting some of the articles of this draft; it is a question of drafting a new law in collaboration with all sectors, a participatory process such as that which was carried out for the adoption of the law in 1995. We understand that if this text is not withdrawn and an alternative text is drawn up, it would be up to us to introduce amendments to this draft law - of course we are going to introduce them - but we are concerned that what we are getting as a result is a kind of Frankenstein text from administrative procurement, that it is not going to serve the objectives of the European directives and that it does not allow us to address the problems we currently have in the country with regard to administrative contracting. Therefore, we ask this House to value the need to avoid this Frankenstein law, which would be much more complex to understand than the already existing project, and that among all of us make administrative contracting a house from which we can permanently evict corruption. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u39	Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u40	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our political formation is not going to support this amendment as a whole and we are going to try to reason with it. The truth is that both the Government and the amendmenters have agreed that this is certainly one of the most important laws to be dealt with. I am already telling you that it is safe for the largest of those that will be dealt with in this legislature, because it affects all citizens, because it affects a large number of companies and because it affects the whole public administration of the Spanish State. In addition, it has been found that we are considerably behind schedule - from our perspective, attributable solely to the Government - in transposing a set of directives. And, as we are seeing these days, it does not only affect these directives, we have other pending decisions, we have judgments from the European courts that must also be regularised and we are considerably behind in adapting to Community rules. Therefore, at the outset, we do not think of any reason why we should continue to maintain this delay. That, as you will see, does not indicate that we agree with the text proposed by the Government, but in any case - and I am already making it clear - we are going to amend it in various respects. I would like to reflect on the proposed amendment group as a whole. You must be very confident that the Government will believe that, if it brings another project, its content would be very different. I believe that this would be very close and, therefore, the sooner we get to work and amend the text proposed by the Government, the more operational it will be for everyone. It is true that it creates some doubts, some that we can share in your amendment to the whole and other issues that we sincerely do not share. We are worried about a subject - I am already advancing it - competitive. On other occasions, and I think this is going to be one more, the transposition of Community directives is being used to curtail the powers of the autonomous communities. There is case law on the part of the Constitutional Court which states that the transposition of Community directives does not have to mean the change or redistribution of powers at internal level. This, as you have said, is the case that we now have on the table. You, in addition to drafting a text that I would say is law, regulation and something else, all concentrated, I believe you are again committing excessive abuse of basic legislation. And with an excessive abuse of basic legislation, plus a very regulatory text, they are going to leave without the capacity to develop autonomous competences and we are going to fall into the same mistake in which it fell with the previous Public Procurement Act, which practically leaves no room for autonomous communities; in fact, many of them no longer legislate because they do not have the capacity to legislate. That, Minister, is what we are going to try to do in this parliamentary procedure. I sincerely believe that they are committing an abuse of basic legislation; that in the case of Catalonia, they leave no room for the development of the very Statute of Catalonia, which in this area - I remind you - was not challenged before the Constitutional Court and is therefore fully in force. We understand that there may be some attempt at re-centralisation in this area, but - as I say to the proponents - they lose any hope, this is not going to be changed by the Government. Those of us in this House have a responsibility to change it, and unlike the previous parliamentary term, parliamentary arithmetic gives us the opportunity to do so. So the sooner we get to work, the better. Another argument why we are not going to vote for this amendment in its entirety. I think it was the same two Members who, on Tuesday, in a legislative proposal from your group, proposed the repeal of the LRSAL and our group said to them: We do not agree with many of the aspects that you raise but we understand that the important thing is to start the parliamentary procedure, and we vote in favour of them. Now I'm going to reverse the argument. We do not agree 100% with the government's proposal, but we believe that we must start the parliamentary procedure, that we must present these amendments and, among all, agree. I complained from this rostrum that the eight - now I think it is nine - only legislative initiatives that have been adopted since we have a new Government have been validated by royal decree-law and without the possibility of being treated as a bill. This time we have the chance, let's use it. Not that I have much hope, I will not deceive you, but there are some aspects that are frankly improveable. You say that it does not improve transparency enough, that it is not enough to fight corruption, and we might even agree, but I assure you that it improves in relation to the current situation. Let us no longer perpetuate legislation that has been deemed to be of no use. The government has said, Minister, that you have already been acting and that, for example, you have modified that certain procedures such as contracts negotiated without advertising would be eliminated in December. It is true, although some autonomous communities such as Catalonia or some municipalities have already done so many months before. Let's not cause any further delay. But I also ask you, and the truth is that so far you have been receptive, that once we have started the parliamentary process we will not run. This is a very important law, we will have to negotiate very much, I am sure that the amendments will have to be negotiated. So let us take the time to make a good law. We have amendments in the field of competition, we have amendments in the award criteria and very many in procedures, and I point out to you one that I think we should also put ourselves as a challenge: award criteria, price. All right, but the price according to the cost it has for the Administration itself. We must not put VAT excluded but price with VAT included, because perhaps for the General Administration of the State it is the same but for the autonomous communities it is not, for the municipalities neither and for certain entities exempt from VAT it is the same because they do not end up competing on equal terms. This is one of the many examples that I am sure we will be able to agree if this legislative procedure is initiated. We are therefore going to stand today against this amendment as a whole and already show them our willingness not only to partially amend but also to be able to agree and negotiate many of these amendments. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u42	Egun on. Good morning. Once again, we are faced with a draft law which has its raison d'être in the adoption of a new generation of European directives in this area - specifically, the 23rd, 24th and 25th - which required it to be transposed into our legal system in an imminent manner. [[The lady]] The limit was set for April 2016 and, as they have not been transposed and Brussels urges to do so, it comes to this House after its processing has been classified as full and urgent legislative competence. We have been drawn to our attention by this urgent procedure, which causes the deadline for amendments to be shorter despite the existing extensions because it is a cross-cutting law affecting many sectors, entities and businesses. In short, it is a very social and political law if we also take into account that public procurement accounts for about 10% of GDP, as the Minister has said. These directives aim to increase the efficiency of public expenditure for which it is necessary and essential to increase the efficiency of procurement procedures. This is due to their rationalization and simplification and to allowing buyers to make better use of public procurement in support of social objectives such as environmental protection, more efficient use of resources, promotion of innovation or social inclusion, and also to ensure the conditions for providing high-quality public services. The principles of these directives extend to all stages of procurement, opt to dispense with the establishment of excessively rigid rules and should serve as a general model for all public procurement. Let us not forget that public investment is an indispensable element for the economic and social development of a country, to generate levels of economic growth and also to design and implement public policies. We understand - or want to understand - that the transposition obligation must be seen as a new opportunity to properly regulate a matter of such economic and social importance; transposition that, in addition to simplifying and promoting effective transparency, must preserve the idea of legal uniformity. It is also time to update the concepts and pillars on which the model of the administrative contract was designed, where the idea of administrative prerogatives gives way to a model of equality, efficiency and integrity. It is also true that in the last text published in the BOE, different issues were reversed with respect to the previous one and this has been able to generate suspicion or doubt. A button is enough to show, because today we have been asked an amendment to the whole with which we share some doubts and arguments that I will comment on; but that does not mean that we are going to support that amendment to the whole, because we understand that we cannot waste more time delaying such an important law for economic activity and competitiveness that, as I said earlier, affects all kinds of companies, entities and contracting bodies. Among our doubts and concerns, I would like to mention that it is an extensive text and that it can cause a relative problem the limited scope of regulatory intervention that is left to the autonomous communities. The legal regime of procurement is not uniform for all contracting authorities regardless of whether or not they are considered as public administration, as instructions from non-public administration entities for non-harmonised contracts are maintained. The payment periods previously laid down are allowed to be extended and it appears that the legislation on late payment is not being scrupulously complied with. The case of the negotiated procedure without publicity for the amount disappears, although it was born with intent to avoid opacity. The figure of the minor contract and its amounts are also maintained, the broad use of which by the public sector may suggest greater transparency requirements. The special remedy does not extend to any contract irrespective of its amount. Opens the possibility of free modification in non-harmonised contracts for contracting authorities outside the public administration. There is no clear distinction between the tender procedure with negotiation and the negotiated procedure without publicity. The regulation leads to procedural confusion and does not permit recognition of the negotiated procedure without publicity as a strictly exceptional procedure. With regard to e-procurement, there is a timid reference to additional provisions in the use of communications and electronic procedure; we do not know whether it will be possible to materialize at all. Nor do we believe that the idea of including social and environmental criteria that must be cross-cutting in all public procurement is deepened. Since it is an extensive law we could include many doubts, but it is not a question of making a decalogue of concerns, but that from these and others we are analyzing and consensusing them so that the end result is not a lost new opportunity that consolidates a new model that values the principle of good governance. Transparent procurement improves the economy and competitiveness. Thus, from the economic point of view, public investment drives economic activity through demand, improves the efficiency of the productive process and also has a complement of solidarity, because it seeks the expansion of areas of less relative income. As I have already done, and since we have the opportunity to table partial amendments in order to try to reach the maximum possible consensus and thus consolidate that new model to which I have referred, we are not going to support this amendment as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u43	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, Mr Montoro, I must tell you a while ago that our group has agreed that this is perhaps your particular tribute to the saint of today, who, if you do not know, is Saint Panfilo de Cesarea, whose martyrdom today commemorates the Catholic Church. [[Rumors]] Go ahead, Mr Montoro, that under no circumstances am I calling you panfilo, much less, but I fear that by panfilos you have taken us today to the rest of the colleagues in the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, the transposition of the directive on public sector contracts comes, but for a change it comes late or late, Minister, and they also transpose it by trying to dodge its spirit absolutely. If the directive seeks to stimulate the public procurement of small and medium-sized enterprises and at the same time to stimulate the social economy, you bring us here a law which, once again, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, seeks to shield the privileges acquired in the Spanish State by large enterprises and large oligopolies. We have not tabled an amendment as a whole because we believe that we can no longer delay the transposition of the directive, but we are moving forward - apart from abstaining from voting on the amendment to all the fellow Members of Podemos - that we are going to table dozens of amendments in order to favour SMEs and the social economy to the detriment, as it could not otherwise be, of the economic oligarchies that are enriched every time you publish a law in the State Official Gazette. By the way, although not by chance, the same economic oligarchies that Bárcenas pointed out as generous patrons of a certain political party turning representative democracy into an organic democracy. In fact, the State concentrates public procurement on large companies and oligopolies that earn indecent profits as mere managers and at the cost of the prices and operating conditions with which they subcontract small and medium-sized enterprises, to which they crucify for the most part with a legally protected lateness. Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya defends to eliminate the caste, and not only the caste, but the caste and dandruff that negotiates on the stage of Bernabeu. We want to eliminate this caste and this dandruff, Minister, and we want to do so in favour of a truly productive economy. For this we propose the incorporation of social criteria in public procurement, so that it is as a tool for the redistribution of wealth; but not only to redistribute wealth, which is obvious, but also for a dignity of wages and, at the same time, work, and obviously for a social benefit. It is not only a question of guaranteeing decent contracts for businesses, which eventually end up carrying out public works or services, and a quality job for their workers, but, at the same time, it is a question of stimulating a productive economy rooted in the territory and which very rarely ends up being relocated. We want SMEs, the social economy, fair trade to have access to public procurement, following, without inventing anything, the guidelines laid down by the European Commission. I repeat this once again, to make it a little clearer: that small and medium-sized enterprises should increase their participation in public procurement. I do not find anything if I say that SMEs account for 52% of the European turnover and that this figure falls to 30% or less when we talk about their participation in public procurement, which is the case today. It is a huge mistake to continue to bet on large economies of scale, from which only large companies benefit. We must also take into account the companies identified with the territory, the companies that everyone identifies with the people, with the reality. The European directives play the same role, the proof is that they facilitate small batch auctions, the elimination of the obligation to have to prove a huge solvency or, for example, the reduction of administrative burdens. I'm done. It is absolutely crucial to promote gender equality, to ensure decent wages, to ensure stable recruitment and the protection of small and medium-sized enterprises in order to promote socially responsible public procurement, incorporating objectives of improvement in working conditions, social justice, promotion of the social economy, cooperative at the same time, among many others. You wanted to shield privileges, as I said at the beginning of my speech, we want to favour SMEs and the social economy to the detriment of the oligarchies. Don't think of us as panfilos, Mr. Montoro. We and we will work to make it possible, don't hesitate. Nothing more. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u45	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jordà. Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I had intended to start this speech in a completely different way from the way I am going to do it. I was thinking of reading with boring tone an article of the project, the 129, on criteria of evaluation of offers, and only a part, because the full article would have taken me all the intervention: it is four leaves, fourteen thousand characters, two thousand words. But, as I say, I'm going to save you, because Mr. Montoro's voluntary monocordous tone - volunteer, because when he wants to be vehemently happy - has woven such a spell of boredom that the most prudent have driven them out to the cafeteria and those we have left behind have left us catatonic, unable to see what is behind this law, this boring dinosaur. [[Applauds]] That's a big problem, because what's behind it is a huge field. You have said 10% of GDP, the Member of Podemos has risen to 15%, the CNMC speaks of 18% of GDP, almost EUR 190 billion per year. In such a large field the consequences of a malfunction are very serious. According to studies by the European Union, weaknesses in competitive pressure in public procurement could result in losses of close to €47.5 billion per year. I insist: we can be wasting 47.5 billion euros a year. I will try to be brief and not bore you and, in the face of the dark spell, I will put concrete cases to you. Everyone knows the case of radials, we dealt with it yesterday in the Committee on Development. You all know that we will have to pay an amount close to EUR 5 billion for roads that were simply not necessary. If it had been a mere political irresponsibility, an absurd idea, they might never have been built. They were built because the law that we are now trying to amend turned the state, turned us all into guarantors of the pharaonic dreams of politicians and this through three legal mechanisms. One is the patrimonial responsibility of the Administration. Another is a poor assessment of concessions, which we now have to rescue. And above all an inadequate risk sharing between the dealership and the administration. Do you see the cocktail that produces political irresponsibility and bad legislation? Now, we can act on the second of the ingredients. Look: the problem is that political power has colonized public procurement and in it amigoism and corruption flourish. I insist: we now have a great opportunity. We do not understand that a project in this category has been dealt with by the urgent procedure, but we will not support an amendment as a whole either. We want to discuss the law, we want to improve it, we are already working very seriously on the amendments. And in Citizens we are going to tackle this issue from a general perspective and taking into account the most peremptory particular problems presented to us by the existing legislation. From the general perspective we simply propose a change of culture. So far the problems of recruitment are faced from a bureaucratic perspective and boring tone. Faced with the obvious problems of recruitment, with corruption, with amigoism, the law is adding new bureaucratic obstacles that are adding new weight to the dinosaur, making it more unmanageable. In Citizens we believe it is time to change focus, and we have to put it in two things: ensure real competition and ensure that public procurement develops with efficiency criteria. For one reason, because the more competitive and efficient it is, the less the possibility of corruption, the less the possibility of amigoism, the better the allocation of resources and the less waste. But this, ensuring efficiency and competition, in the end has always been a secondary problem for the legislator. In this change of culture that we propose the European Union is pointing the way. It tells us: It is a priority to create an independent administrative authority with functions of supervision, evaluation and design of public procurement policy - it says, for example, the decision of the Council of the European Union of 2 August 2016 - and this is not uncommon at all. Why is it perfectly understood that a market that makes up EUR 30 billion a year, such as electronic communications, has an independent regulator and a permanent concern for competition and, instead, another one, of EUR 190 billion, with an efficiency loss of EUR 47 billion, does not have such a regulator? That is why we anticipate our first step in the general approach: to propose the creation of a regulatory authority for the public procurement market. And since we are talking about competition and efficiency, we need to point out something else. We all know what white elephants are, those pharaonic projects that are very showy but very expensive and of no social profitability. We must include in public procurement the evaluation with economic techniques and this evaluation we must achieve it efficiently and without increasing bureaucratic resources. Evaluations must be before and after the tender, ex ante and ex post. Additional provision 39 of the project relates to the national evaluation office. He said that he was responsible for examining the financial viability and other aspects relating to the concessions of works and services. It seems very good to us, but we want to extend it to all procurement, to other different concession contracts, in which, from a certain amount, a report from that national evaluation office is mandatory. Since it is one of the points of our investment pact, I understand that there will be no problem in reaching agreements on this matter. So far the general approach, in particular I will just mention a few points. We need to talk about SMEs. The Directive is one of the strategic objectives for SMEs to participate effectively in the market, and the project addresses this in the explanatory statement, but sometimes it is forgotten in the article. We must pay particular attention not only to batch division, but also to payment periods for subcontractors, not just to the successful tenderers. We must talk, as we have said, about concessions. We must make a clear division of risks between Administration and concessionaire, which makes impossible the current mechanism of socialization of losses and privatization of profits, where there is real risk and chance. We need to talk about overcosts and the works that are currently paralysed, and for that we need to get very serious about the modification of contracts. Mr Montoro, you said that it is more demanding than what the European Union says, but it is much more lax than our own legislation was a few years ago. We have an abuse of the amendments in Spain, with which we have to end. We must, of course, talk about transparency. As mentioned above, we want a national procurement portal where all contracting authorities' procurement portals are clearly returned. In this respect, we have accepted some of the amendments proposed to us at all the meetings that the Civio Foundation has held with the groups. In short, ladies and gentlemen, at the next stage of amendment we have ahead of us a work that is going to be very hard, that is going to be little window, but that is very important, because it will decide whether public procurement will be a field in which corruption, friendliness and white elephants flourish or the first step towards a clean, efficient and 21st century procurement. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u47	Thank you very much, Mr Navarro. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Serrano Jiménez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on public sector contracts transposes into Spanish law the European directive on public sector contracts adopted in February 2014. Mr Montoro, the matter is arid, but don't think that with your uniform tone, which you want to pass from point to point, we are not going to realize that the bill you have brought to this House is not a good one. The bill should lead to improved governance by speeding up procedures for better service to citizens. Despite the various reforms, contract law has never been agile and has never been able to stop slowly. An effective administration is needed to ensure that there is a good public service; competition must be encouraged and encouraged, with a broad sector of companies in place that will enable it to work with public administrations and improve competition; the guarantee of publicity and transparency that requires clear action in the management and use of public resources from the first stage to the last, thus combating corruption; and the implementation of environmental, social and R & D policies that require a 21st-century society in the face of the challenges of the future should be promoted. The text of the law, with the transposition of the directive and after the delay in its implementation, should be a point of reference in the European Union in order to begin to alleviate the economic crisis, the serious problems of corruption, the precariousness of wages, inequality, the decline in social rights, the shortage of productive fabric and the lack of investment in research, innovation and technological development, together with many other measures. It was the Government's opportunity to establish from the administration itself and through administrative recruitment measures to ensure the reversal of the unjust social, labour and business situation that the People's Party has provided in recent years of absolute majority. However, the text it has submitted does not meet or achieve the objectives which Community legislation imposes on public procurement. What I am saying is not a political statement by the Socialist Parliamentary Group simply because it is supported by advisory bodies that have expressed their concern about this text because they have already warned the Government of the shortcomings of the preliminary draft; both the Economic and Social Council and the Council of State have done so. But the changes made by the Government in the preliminary draft did not address the deep and serious shortcomings and the draft that has come to Parliament is far-reaching and difficult to understand. As to its content, we wonder why the Government has not incorporated issues resolved by the courts in order to ensure transparency and equal treatment at all stages of public procurement, avoiding escape routes conducive to discretion and arbitrariness in its actions. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, when judicial decisions dictate and highlight the lack of transparency and equal treatment of laws, it is the duty of the Legislature and this Parliament to prevent new cases of corruption with effective and necessary legal reforms, and in this case they do not occur. Why aren't you interested in the government? In other words, we also wonder why the Government does not really want economic activity to grow through entrepreneurship, because if it did, it would facilitate the participation of SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises, in public procurement. The Administration must encourage such participation by facilitating the creation of guarantees and by setting longer deadlines for the submission of tenders, in short, it must ensure competition on equal opportunities and conditions with large companies. Many times in the letter, in the deadlines and in the technicalities, there are genuine vetoes of competition that prevent small and medium-sized enterprises from accessing public contracts because they do not have the same means. It is well known that social policies do not excite the People's Parliamentary Group, but leave it in the hands of the contracting body, leave it up to the administration to implement social and environmental considerations at all stages of recruitment is to accommodate the Government's deep setbacks in these areas and to protect anti-social and unsustainable actions in business practices. It is not possible to move forward if the Administration does not set an example. The transposition of Community directives by the Government cannot be more unfortunate and requires a thorough reform without further delay - we cannot take any longer - by collecting, studying and agreeing with all social sectors the suggestions that have made to us without falling into the responsibility of a plant to do this work only because the People's Party has not done itss. If the Government has not complied, we will comply, because the text is clearly better. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, to support the refund amendment when the reform of public procurement is imposed by a Community mandate and it is urgent because we are out of time does not seem most appropriate, among other things, for the image of Spain abroad. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen of the United States We can, if you are so concerned about corruption, your amendment to the whole implies extending over time the very serious problems of corruption that this country has for poor transparency in recruitment. We need adequate legislation to combat cases of corruption. The amendment to the whole favours the blocking of the solution to the problem of corruption over time. If public procurement is improved, with an in-depth revision and modification of the draft submitted by the Government through the amendments that we are submitting - agreed not only with this House, but also with civil society - we will be able to curb any possibility of corruption as soon as possible. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, that would constitute a social pact against corruption, but we can, once again, prefer to be irresponsible and not to assume the role that citizens have given it in the ballot box: to represent and defend the thousands of amendments that have arrived and that do constitute measures against corruption. On the other hand, the remedies you propose are quite surprising, because you do not add guarantees or transparency but rather more bureaucracy, entangled in resources that the Administration itself resolves to win forever. In relation to minor contracts, what needs to be done is to publish them and establish political and administrative responsibilities in the law itself. Adding bureaucracy is not the solution, what needs to be done is to be crystal clear like water, Mr Vendrell, in every procedure and to establish responsibilities just for the lack of publicity. How long would it take to pass a law that is urgent if it is returned to the Government with an amendment to the whole? In short, ladies and gentlemen of the United States We can, the reasons you use to request the return of the Government's text have a lot of prose and little legal and political clout. I am left with the feeling that it has been easier for you to articulate this refund amendment than to propose amendments to amend or add, which require studying the text, analysing the mandatory reports issued, meeting with as many entities as possible to know your proposals and putting forward serious and reasoned amendments based on knowledge of the subject. That is what the Socialist Parliamentary Group is doing. We have already said this, we do not like it, but we have been working on this bill and the other for three months to make it better, because we are aware that they will give legislative coverage to a framework of professional activities, that related to public administrations, which represents nothing more and nothing less than 20% of GDP, Mr Montoro, according to the Ministry of Economy; you said the 10, but agree on the data, because according to the Ministry of Economy it is 20% of GDP. [[The lady]] In these months we have received only the draft law that deals with 1,300 proposed amendments from more than sixty entities representing thousands of companies and associations and hosting thousands of workers. Socialists will propose that these bills ensure the application of the principle of transparency at all stages of contracts as a more effective measure to ensure integrity, the fight against corruption and efficiency in public spending. And we are going to propose that the obligation be imposed to implement through public procurement the best policies of the European Union in the social, environmental, innovation and promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises. The Socialist Group will be submitting more than 500 amendments to the draft law on public sector contracts. To table more than 500 amendments to a bill, ladies and gentlemen, is practically like presenting an amendment in its entirety, but with one difference: we are working. What you are doing is returning it in the hope that the Government will present something else, but, as has already been said here, the Government will not do so. All this is done by the Socialist Parliamentary Group with an irrevocable objective: that the new contract law faithfully guarantee the standards imposed by the existing Community recruitment directives in order to achieve the objectives of the European 2020 strategy in this area of public administration. For these reasons, the Socialist Group's vote is going to be no to its amendment as a whole. I propose that you join that social pact with this House and with civil society so that we make the best contract law in this country, the contract law that this country needs, transparent, effective and efficient, and so that there is no hint of corruption. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u49	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marí Bosó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Julián de la Morena López of the Recruitment Observatory tells us that the first historical reference to public procurement in our country is found in the Royal Decree of 27 February 1852, published by Bravo Murillo, which begins by pointing out to Queen Isabel II, who, with the agreement of the Council of Ministers, presented the Finance Act to the Courts on 29 December 1850 a draft law on contracts for public services, in order to establish certain healthy obstacles, avoiding abuses that are easy to commit in a matter of dangerous stimuli and to guarantee administration against the shooting of the curse. It is true, therefore, that since then all the public procurement rules that have been pursued and extended to a great extent for these three purposes. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, all the procurement rules have deepened the task of increasing competition, increasing the transparency and objectivity of the procurement procedures, simplifying and avoiding abuses, and ensuring the efficiency of the administration in its processes as a guarantee for all citizens. And in pursuing these objectives themselves, the Public Sector Contracts Bill, which is now subject to amendment to the whole, has followed a very thorough drafting process, listening to everyone. And while the law is late in transposing the directives on the stated deadline, the fact is that this delay, Mr Bel, is due not to the government, but to the marasm in which we were in this House for ten months is no. However, immediately after the release, the Government approved this bill in the Council of Ministers. And on this point, Mr Vendrell, on the obligation to transpose the directives on recruitment, and that is why you said that we are in a hurry, but we have to do it right - which, if you will allow me to respectfully, sounds like an excuse - I will quote an argument from the authority of your own political group, that of Mr Mayoral, which yesterday in this House pointed out that failure to comply with our obligation to transpose puts our country in jeopardy. It will sound strange, ladies and gentlemen, that the Group of the European People's Party agrees with this assessment of Mr Mayoral, but it is that we do not see his amendment to the whole of today coherently, simply calling for the return of the text to the Government, and does not sympathise with the danger that Mr Mayoral observed and we observed in the sanctions procedure to our country. [[The lady]] Is this a bill other than the draft bill? Right. What's the amending group surprised about? A public hearing is done precisely for that purpose, to improve the preliminary draft, to incorporate suggestions from everyone. The draft law improves on the preliminary draft by the contribution of numerous entities and collectives, because for that it is the procedures of public hearing, and what you said that in the preliminary draft were the internal instructions of contracting and in the draft no longer, it was precisely fulfilling a requirement of the Council of State in its procedure of public hearing. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that if you do not talk about democratic participation fraud, as you do in the text of the amendment, it would not be you, but it is that in the public hearing procedure of April 2015, in addition to being open to the public, up to 126 entities were expressly asked to make their contributions, and in April 2015, the Director-General of Heritage addressed you expressly, as to the other political groups, asking you to participate in the public hearing procedure and make your allegations. Then, Your Honor, before talking about democratic participation frauds, see to it that you also participate democratically in this stage of public hearing. [[Applauds]] You can be on the street and, at the same time, be on the lookout for processing, unless you have agreed to be alone on the street last weekend. It is your choice that you have decided to be alone on the street or that you have decided not to contribute anything in the public hearing procedure, but by denouncing frauds of democratic participation, by complaining about the fierceness of the text - by the way, because the directives are increasingly prolific, the text is also prolific by having to transpose them - to say that it does not guarantee the elimination of corruption or simplify procedures, by denouncing all this, Your Honor, one would expect you to have submitted an amendment to the whole with an alternative text and not simply to pass the text back to the Government. [[Applauds]] This would be the coherent thing, it would be what would enlighten us all and it would also be something not as disappointing as that after announcing all the evils did not propose at least some remedy. Ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what you say in your amendment to the whole, the draft law decisively improves the mechanisms for preventing corruption - the Finance Minister has pointed out in his statement -; it simplifies the procedures for awarding contracts; it guarantees transparency and electronic contracting, because it makes more comprehensive the information to be published on all the platforms and profiles of the contractor; it makes an unequivocal bet to promote the so-called strategic contracting in the social, labour and environmental field, which - as the Minister of Finance has pointed out - affects all the phases of tendering and execution of contracts; and for the first time in our legislation, it imposes an obligation on contracting bodies to ensure that contractors comply with their obligations in this area. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u51	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u52	Therefore, Your Honor, you will be able to attribute the representation of social entities, you will be able to repeat as a mantra that the bill does not promote socially and environmentally sustainable public procurement, but that you believe that affirming this has the spiritual power of Hindu mantras does not mean that the reality of the bill does not detract from them step by step. [[Applauds]] The bill's attention to these social, labour and environmental issues is very broad, as, on the other hand, it needs a society that wants to be increasingly inclusive. In short, Mr Vendrell and Mrs Honorato, the reasons you have given for your total opposition to this bill have very little basis and it seems that you respond... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u53	One second, Mr. Marí. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u54	Thank you, Madam President. The reasons you have given have very little basis and seem to respond rather to what is expected to be said by the character you have built. And in the end, do you know what's going on, Mr. Vendrell? It happens that when you talk about people you lack to think about people, Your Honor, you lack to think about people. [[Applauds]] This bill does not require an amendment to the whole or much less without an alternative text. What this draft law on public sector contracts requires is analysis, sufficient information, contrast of views, the provision attentive to suggestions and contributions from both entities and social sectors, but also from parliamentary groups. This bill requires the efforts of all to enrich the legal text submitted by the Government. This is the disposition of the People's Parliamentary Group and this is the disposition we would expect to see in your group. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are emerging from a very severe economic crisis through structural reforms. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u55	One second, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down and keep quiet that the speaker is finishing. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u56	Thank you, Madam President. We are emerging from a very severe crisis through structural reforms. We have returned to growth and employment generation, and the policies of the People's Party Government have made a decisive contribution to this, because this is the Government that, thinking of the people, decided not to shirk its responsibilities and face up to the reform of our economic activity, and it is certainly also the reform of public procurement that is a major reform to make better and more efficient use of public funds, allowing for better growth, more sustainable and inclusive, in order to finally make a better public administration at the service of the citizens. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin voting. First, validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 2/2017 of 27 January, adopting urgent measures to alleviate the damage caused by the latest storms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 plus 2 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 334 plus 2 telematics votes, 336; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u58	As a result, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The Royal Decree-Law has been requested to be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 plus 2 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 85; against, 248 plus 2 telematics votes, 250; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u59	Consequently, the Royal Decree-Law will not be dealt with as a bill by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u60	We then proceed to the vote on the amendment to the full refund of the draft law on public sector contracts, transposing into Spanish law the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council, 2014/23/EU and 2014/24/EU of 26 February 2014, submitted by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 plus 2 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 70; against, 253 plus 2 telematics votes, 255; abstentions, 13.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u61	The amendment to the full refund is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u62	We then proceed to vote on the request for the House Plenary's avocation of the deliberation and final vote of the Public Sector Contracts Bill, which transposes into Spanish law the directives of the European Parliament and the Council, 2014/23 and 2014/24, of 26 February 2014, submitted by the Joint Parliamentary and Confederal Groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 336 plus 2 telematics votes, 338; in favour, 93; against, 242 plus 2 telematics votes, 244; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-02-16-CD170216.u63	Therefore, the bill is not advocated by the plenary. The meeting rose. It was twelve and five minutes from noon.
