ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u1	The meeting was called to order. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the plenary session, we shall proceed to keep a minute of silence in memory of the three women killed this weekend, victims of gender-based violence. The Congress of Deputies thus wishes to convey its solidarity with its relatives and relatives and to show its total repudiation of the acts and motivations of murderers and abusers. [[The House, standing up, keeps a minute of silence.-Applause]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u2	In accordance with rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure, and as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the inclusion, as the last item on the agenda for next Wednesday, 31 May, of a new paragraph concerning the extension, until 16 June 2017, of the deadline granted to the Sub-Commission for a State Pact on Gender Violence, for the conclusion of its work. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] Accordingly, the inclusion in the agenda of the paragraph referred to above is hereby approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u3	We began the debate on the opinion of the draft Law on General State Budgets for 2017. We begin with the discussion of sections 15, Finance and Public Service, and 36, Territorial Entity Financing Systems. For the presentation of the sections, the Minister for Finance and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government. Sections 15, Finance and Public Service, and 36, Territorial Entity Financing Systems
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, my deepest rejection of gender-based violence, which, as a member of the Government, I am convinced that we will be able to overcome sooner rather than later. I take this rostrum to present section 15 and section 36... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u5	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u6	... but, before that, I have to say that Spain is going to have new budgets for this year 2017. Our country will have budgets that are appropriate to the economic scenario we are experiencing, and that will enable us to drive economic recovery, consolidate our growth and job creation and strengthen social spending. From the first day on, the Government expressed its willingness to engage with the various political forces to make these budgets a reality, because we were very aware that such a legislature could not be launched by showing signs of weakness. That is what would have happened if we had not taken forward in its day the objectives of stability, the ceiling of expenditure, and today in the procedure that we started this afternoon the budgets of the State. This willingness of the Government to dialogue, our insistence on bringing together positions and wills, has been echoed in this Parliament and has also been echoed in autonomous governments. Institutional policy, the sense of responsibility and the vision of the State have ended up being imposed on minor strategies, on partisan strategies that prefer the wear of the adversary over the benefit to the citizen and that are now in question and in minority. Dialogue, negotiation, the will to agree and the defence of the general interest to which groups with different political views have joined will enable these budgets to move forward. This bill, which is rightly referred to as the most important of the year, has been completed and enriched through good work of much content and political meaning such as that carried out by the Committee on Budgets in this House. Go ahead, therefore, the Government's recognition of the task - which was not easy - carried out by the Committee on Budgets, all its components, and in particular Mr De la Torre, its chairman, for the work he has done in order to carry out this bill today on his return to the plenary session of Congress. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that when we have the opportunity to vote on the opinion of this bill, we will be able to do so with 176 disputed, 176 deputies representing all of Spain, representing all the autonomous communities of Spain and representing seven different parties. We have talked, we have negotiated, we have been convinced and we have convinced representatives of different political groups and also of different autonomous governments, which is precisely what we wanted and what we proposed since the first day. It is the triumph of institutional policy over other policies, the policy of noise. It is the triumph of the general interest in the face of mere uninterested confrontation. There is a majority in Parliament that has understood where the future of Spain should go, which is towards stability, and that has decided to put it into practice at a crucial time such as that of supporting the draft budget law, and that encourages us to follow the rest of the legislature along this path. Of course, we would have liked to have an even broader majority, which was the subject of the introduction of the bill, when I had the honour of representing the Government to present it to this House. We would have liked to negotiate with other political groups, as we would have liked to negotiate much more intensively than we have already done with the Socialist Group, since he is present in the government of seven autonomous communities, but they have preferred to stay out of the way, to bet on other amendments, which come alive to the debate of the whole by a large majority. In this area, it is also true that the autonomous communities governed by the Socialist Party will benefit from the outcome of the vote that will take place in just over forty-eight hours; they will benefit from the 54 billion more autonomous funding, which is the content of section 32, and from the rest of the draft bill, although they will not be able to say that they have contributed to it, because they have preferred to stay out of the way, even risk losing that increase in funding, which would have happened if there were no budgets, if other political groups had put their partisan interest before the general interest of the citizens. I think it is fair to take advantage of my intervention today to thank all these groups for their deep involvement in these weeks of negotiations, as well as their political generosity so that Spain has budgets and that all Spaniards continue to benefit from policies that generate and distribute wealth, create employment and consolidate and strengthen social spending in an inclusive and sustainable way. I think it is right that the Government and this Minister should publicly thank the contributions that have improved this bill without distorting it, because everything that has been negotiated in the Committee on Budgets and the amendments that are submitted to this House fall within the expenditure limit. Therefore, the substance of the budget economic content approach of the bill has not been changed at all. It seems to me that this is important to reiterate it, to say it and to insist on it, because it expresses the generosity that has existed in that negotiation. No one in this negotiation has intended to change the essence of the budget or to change the spending ceiling, and it seems to me that this is to have a sense of responsibility at a time when we have unavoidable obligations, to which I shall now refer, in terms of reducing the public deficit, to fulfil our commitments to the European Union and, from there, to continue to drive our economic growth and our job creation. In this respect, as I have already had occasion to do in the debate on the amendments as a whole, I would like to refer first of all to the collaboration of the Forum and the Navarro People's Union. They have also been able to defend the interests of the citizens of Asturias and Navarra, the same type that have been able to combine this conviction with the defence of the interests of all Spaniards. I would also like to thank, and in a very special way, the position developed by Citizens in this first draft of the budgets of the legislature for the investment pact that launched this new phase of the Government of Mariano Rajoy, as well as the commitment to the reduction of the public deficit, putting forward any other demand, as was already done in the negotiation of this investment pact, understanding, compromising, and in this regard, supporting the position of the Government, which must be in terms of priority of reducing the public deficit in our country. I would also like to thank, in the same vein, the position of the Canary Islands Coalition and its involvement also in defending the interests of the Canary Islands, but also in understanding that the defence of those interests of the Canary Islands went hand in hand with economic recovery in the archipelago and, therefore, to form a legislature with sufficient bases for political stability. I would also like to thank in a special way the step taken by the Basque Nationalist Party so that Spain can have budgets, following a very serious and balanced negotiation that has made it possible to overcome disagreements that have been dragging, at the end of the normalization of the financial institutional relationship, between the General Administration of the State and the Basque Foral Administration, the result of the three outlaws and, therefore, allowing the foundation of a collaboration that, without a doubt, has to be projected not only in this year's budget, but in the budget of the whole that the legislature. Finally, I should also like to thank Mr Quevedo for the effort and commitment made by New Canarias, with whom we have been able to incorporate in the budgets very fair and very precise issues which, in turn, also add and complement the agreement previously reached with the Canary Coalition with a projection towards the archipelago and which involve a great deal of commitment for the growth capacity of the Canary Islands, which, fortunately, are already a reality and which, in no way, this recognition entails any cost to the whole of Spain. Of course, I would like to express my gratitude to the Group of the European People's Party, which I am very honoured to belong to and whose work and contributions have been absolutely fundamental in these very complex weeks. I would like to add that this minister has not only a feeling of gratitude, but also of pride in verifying the level of commitment of all these parties that have been loyal to Spain and to the citizens as a whole. None of the agreements that have been reached with any of these parties goes against anyone; none of the demands that have been embodied in the budgetary agreement harm any territory; and none of the conditions that have been put on the table distorts the vocation of these budgets to serve territorial cohesion, social cohesion and the general interest of Spain. I can assure you that any condition that would harm the general interest of the Spaniards would have made these budgets go unpunished, because none of us, nor, of course, the Government, would have allowed it. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets are good for everyone; they are good for Spain, they are good for all the autonomous communities and for the citizens who live in all of them. Every agreement reached with the parties that are going to vote for their approval is fair and transparent; both the contributions made to the agreement by the two parties at the national level, the People's and Citizens' Parties, and those made by the parties at the autonomous level, all of them - as I am insisting - contribute to the general interest. I challenge anyone to find a stain that obscures this multiple pact for budgetary stability and political stability, because I am sure they will not find it. There are only fair and loyal contributions, which have improved the Government's plan to make it worthy of the confidence of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Finance and Public Service is also a new ministry that emerged as a result of the renewed departmental structure in which the Government was organized, a new ministry that, as such, seeks to approve its first budget, which is obviously not the case of this minister - it would not be an overstatement or even a literary saying this - but of the Ministry of Finance and Public Service, as well as of all the ministerial departments, always thinking about the contribution to economic recovery. I insist this afternoon on economic recovery as a great goal; that has not changed. We have, as I have told you, a new legislature, a new stage and a new Government, with some ministry also partially new, but the great objective remains the same: economic recovery; a recovery that has been going on for some time and has been considerably strengthened in recent months; a recovery that from the perspective of the Ministry of Finance and Public Service keeps the reduction of the public deficit as a cornerstone. We are aware that only from a gradual decrease in the imbalances between income and expenditure, only in the search for a scenario of budgetary stability, will Spain have a solid economy capable of facing with guarantees the greatest challenges that can be presented to us in the present and in the future. The goal of this year 2017 is to reduce the public deficit to 3.1%, a goal that is undoubtedly increasingly achievable. Tomorrow will be published the data of what has been the behavior of the State in terms of budget and national accounts for the month of April. Allow me to state that the State has placed the deficit in April at 0.71 %, which means a reduction of almost 42 % compared to April 2016. We are reducing the government deficit to 42% of that year. Therefore, all this makes us understand, appreciate, that we are on the right track to achieve the reduction of the public deficit and that we are on the verge of Spain abandoning the excessive deficit procedure that marks the European monetary system, European governance, and we can therefore say that the budgetary imbalance, as a major problem in Spain, is lagging behind, as will the reduction of the public debt. In this sense, and by the end of the parliamentary term, we are planning a reduction of between 6 and 7 points in gross domestic product. That was the goal that we set ourselves when we started the Government in 2011, the goal of overcoming the economic crisis, of overcoming the worst legacy of that crisis, unemployment, and we are increasingly sure to be making the journey back to the basic balances of our economy, of our public finances, the path on which the prosperity and security of the Spanish are based. Ladies and gentlemen, economic and budgetary stability, as well as political stability, are essential for Spain to maintain confidence, strengthen investment, economic activity, GDP growth and job creation. From the Government and from the Ministry of Finance and Public Service we contribute these budgets in the interests of stability and economic recovery. It is precisely the good progress of the recovery that allows the reduction of the public deficit to be sustained primarily in the increase of revenues, while maintaining the prudence of expenditure. The control of expenditure and the increase in revenue enabled us last year to meet the deficit target, while we could devote the largest amount of our history to social spending, above EUR 300 billion. The forecast for this year is that we will exceed EUR 307 billion, thanks to the fact that the state's revenues will continue to increase. They are already doing so by more than 10% in April thanks to the fact that this improvement in economic activity is also flowing in the form of an improvement in the resources of all our public administrations, our autonomous communities, our local corporations and our social security system, our pension system through the increase in social contributions. The revenue forecast contained in this bill points to an increase of 7.9%, but in recent months we are already overcoming it, as I said before, and that is the result of the contribution of all the major taxes of the State: income tax, VAT and corporate tax, which is also increasing its contribution to the financing of our public services following the measures that were also adopted in this House by a very large majority at the end of December. This improvement in income - I insist, as a result of the recovery - also includes the second largest contribution that the autonomous communities have never received since the State of Self-Government was launched: it is 99,822 million euros after reflecting an increase in their funding of 54 billion euros, an increase that would, by the way, be reduced to 1 billion if these budgets were not approved; therefore, it was also commented on the relative comfort of so many autonomous governments, whose political representatives in this Parliament have preferred until this afternoon not to support this bill knowing that others would take it forward and will receive those 54 billion euros. I insist, this improvement in funding is the result of the strength of economic recovery and of these budgets and, therefore, we can say that the state of self-government will also be strengthened as a result of the adoption of this bill. This year, the Fund for the Financing of Autonomous Communities is increasing from EUR 25 billion to EUR 16.5 billion, which means EUR 8.5 billion less, which gives us an idea of how the income of the autonomous haciendas has improved as a result of economic recovery, and what we have not exactly changed the financing system. By the way, I also use this reference to insist that we have it pending, we have it before us: the reform of autonomous financing, whose timetable for this exercise, for 2017, was a demand from the socialist governments of the autonomous communities; I hope that they will continue with that demand, that they continue to demand the reform of autonomous financing, because, if it is not through agreements with those socialist governments, I do not understand how we will be able to modernize and update that autonomous financing. That task therefore remained to be done, which promoted dialogue and understanding between the Government of Spain and the autonomous Governments, as well as with the municipal governments. With regard to local entities, the budgets reflect the figure of EUR 17 969 million, which will enable the public services demanded by citizens to continue to be provided while maintaining a sound financial situation. This financial situation ensures the viability of local entities and the sustainability of public services, while contributing to the achievement of the deficit targets of all our public administrations. Indeed, as a result of the recognition of the surplus of our public administrations, one of the amendments that the Committee on Budgets has improved has been that they can allocate the surplus obtained in 2016 to finance financially sustainable investment projects that are not completed in 2017 and for which at least expenditure is authorised, so that this expenditure can be committed and the obligation recognised in 2018. On the other side of the balance sheet, entities that still maintain a delicate financial situation or have serious financial problems will continue to be assisted by the State, so that their suppliers can continue to collect their invoices and so that essential public services received by their neighbours are not affected. Ladies and gentlemen, the Tax Agency is one of the basic institutions of the State, one of the basic institutions of the Ministry of Finance and Public Service and, I would say, an institution so fundamental in the functioning of our State that without its work in managing the implementation of our tax legislation, assistance to the taxpayer, the pursuit of tax fraud and collaboration with the justice system, it would not be possible to operate our modern State. Aware of the importance of the Tax Agency, the Government has provided it with its support over the years and we continue to provide it with our support and budgetary facility so that it can continue to make progress in meeting these objectives and can do so by expanding the number of people working in the Agency, in addition to the effectiveness of the means available to it, citing in particular the telematic means, which are a pride for all Spaniards. We believe that this momentum for the Tax Agency should continue and be strengthened. That is why the budget of the Tax Agency for 2017 amounts to almost 1060 million euros, which means an increase of 110 million euros, 11.5 % more than the budget for 2016. This follows that the internal transfer to the agency grows by EUR 100 million, to reach EUR 964.59 million, while the rest of the internal transfers to the agencies are frozen at the same amounts as in 2016, with the sole exception of the transfer to the Transparency and Good Government Council, which is increased by EUR 350 000, which decreases in the transfer of capital. On the responsibility of the Public Service, I would also like to highlight this afternoon the fact that the draft budget law incorporates the agreement signed with the unions on stability in the employment of the Administration. It is an agreement which affects the protection of the labour rights of public employees, but which transcends this area, since it also benefits society in general. By promoting job stability in thousands of positions of doctors, health personnel, teachers, police and firefighters, justice personnel or the tax administration, we benefit people who are cared for by these professionals every day. It is an agreement, I also recall, which will give employment stability to 250,000 jobs, which will become fixed over a period of three years, in a process which will be consolidated in the adoption of this draft budget law and which has already had an advance in the decree-law which I had occasion to present to the House and which was adopted with the abstention of only two Members. I think that was an exponent of how you can and should agree on the fundamentals. I would also like to point out that the General Budgets of the State include a 1% increase in the salaries of public employees as before the increase that we intend to incorporate into the General Budgets of the State of 2018, following negotiations with the unions, with the legitimate representatives of public employees, who must also have, on the one hand, the recognition of the great task that they have carried out in the long phase of the crisis that has gone through and, on the other, a recognition of the improvement of their working conditions in the face of the future, a future that must start clearly, with roundness, from the year 2018. Also in terms of digital administration and for the development of CORA projects there are initiatives contained in chapter 6, real investments, which have a endowment of 88.5 million. We need to continue the development of electronic channels and the improvement that digital administration is bringing to the service of citizens. In this regard, I would like to emphasise to you that the budget in section 15 also makes a great deal of money for this. Before I finish, in addition to what I have already done, I would like to mention some of the amendments that have been adopted in the passage by the Committee on Budgets. I've already referred to some of them. Apart from the amendment on stability in public employment and the one that will allow local entities to allocate the surplus obtained in 2016 to financially sustainable investment projects, I would like to highlight that another amendment aimed at local entities makes it possible, exceptionally in 2017, to finance from the Ordering Fund the debts that the municipalities have with the Tax Agency and with the General Treasury of Social Security that are applying deductions from the participation in taxes of the State. In addition, there is an increase in deductions and aid for cinema, both for investments in Spanish productions and for expenses incurred in Spanish territory for foreign productions. These changes are in line with the measures adopted by the Government in its tax reform and, as has already been the case at the time, have been welcomed by this sector, which, like so many others, is emerging from the crisis largely because of the package of reforms that we have put in place. I would therefore like to welcome the progress made in the Committee on Budgets in encouraging a cultural sector of this importance. Amendments have also been adopted for the improvement of employment in the Canary Islands and the modification of certain fiscal aspects of the REF, in addition to the reduction that we intend to make with this project of transport costs in the Canary Islands and also in the Balearic Islands, which are a consequence of the budgetary improvement that the Government is making, convinced that everything we do to make equal opportunities between citizens a reality regardless of the place of residence will be in the general interest. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. We are at a demanding moment in our history. We have before us the door that will allow us to get out of the crisis definitively and behind us the door that locks everything we have been able to overcome in these years. Budgetary policy is a kind of key to those doors and, for that reason, I would like once again to thank the work of all the groups that have helped us with their contributions and amendments to get us to the right door. I hope that this collaboration will be maintained and expanded, because at the end of this parliamentary term the important thing will be that we can say that we have definitely defeated the crisis and opened up a future of greater prosperity and well-being for the Spaniards. That is what the Spaniards deserve, and that is the sense of the budget of the Ministry of Finance and Public Service, which I have had the opportunity to present again in this House this afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u7	Thank you very much. In defence of amendments, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Montoro, gender-based violence, apart from gestures, is fought with budgets. So I could have been a little more generous in that chapter. Mr Montoro, two weeks ago you said: There are political groups that if they don't cry not mom. So I lend you a package of clinex every time you intervene. Apart from the fact that I find it unwelcome to tell us that as a group and, above all, as representatives of the Valencians, I will tell you that you do not need to lend us anything, because we already bring from home the packet of handkerchiefs to cry, because, really, your budgets are to cry. [[Show a package of clinex]] From the point of view of a Valencian, they are budgets to cry. As for loans, the loans you make to us are the FLA, which is a perverse mechanism. We are entrusted with public services that cost money, and since you do not transfer the money that is needed to provide those public services on equal terms with the other territories, you make us a loan, so, what we are doing is increasing every year what we need to finance public services for which we did not have to lend money because they had to be self-financed. So we don't like those loans. Compromís has always insisted, since the first day, on an idea: criteria, criteria, criteria. What criteria have you had to make some investments and delay others, not this year, but the previous year, the previous year and the previous year? If he had had a public manager's criterion to try to equalize all communities, he would not have presented these budgets, which are all his own, to an autonomous community that has a per capita income of twelve points below the average. [[Displays a graph]] Look, always below what we represent as an autonomous community. Anyway, it's not a good way to distribute. He also called us victimists; he could have called him to his group in the Valencian Courts or in the Valencian Diputation, which also rejects these budgets. Finally, in addition to under-investment and under-financing, he tells us today that we have been convinced and have been convinced - to us, of course not - and that these budgets are the defence of the common interest of all Spaniards. Of the common interest of the whole I do not know, of the Valencians, of course not. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u9	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u10	Thank you, President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled five amendments to section 15, which I am going to detail but which I am already defending. I'll do some initial reflections on time limitation. You have told us about new budgets; indeed, they are different budgets, different by the partners with which they approve them, but they are budgets of continuity, you said it two weeks ago from this rostrum. These are the budgets of the People's Party and Citizens supported by regionalists and nationalists from the Basque Country, Asturias, the Canary Islands and Navarra. We just found out. Having said that, we have come up with a certain amount of triumphalism - it seems to me to understand - saying that the deficit of the central administration, if I have not misunderstood it, was 0.71% and had been reduced by 42%. Do not be so triumphant, Minister, because the central administration must reduce it by 56%, and if with extended budgets it has only reached 42%, it should in any case be cautious. It is about autonomous funding and local funding, which is a discussion we had in the Commission and we have it here again. You say: 5400 million euros more come to the autonomous communities and those who are not supporting the budgets give up these 5400 million euros. It also says that this EUR 5400 million comes for two reasons: the result of economic recovery - I am not going to discuss this - and the result of these budgets. No, of these budgets, not, Minister, but the result of the application of an expired funding system. With budgets or without budgets, you had an obligation to transfer these resources to the Autonomous Communities. As far as local funding is concerned, the situation is very similar. We are lagging behind in the reform of the local funding system and the autonomous financing system. We have tabled five amendments, which I will quote shortly. Amendment 5311, aimed at transferring to the Generalitat a minimum contribution - which was established until 2011 and which has disappeared since 2012 - to the Generalitat's single plan for works and services. It is also expected that there will be a funding fund for municipalities with a population of no more than 20 000, with a budget similar to that established in 2011, which does not exist either. In addition, Amendment 4984, which is important to us, calls for a small contribution of EUR 200 000 from the Consortium Català pel Développement Local, which is a recruitment centre for local entities in which municipalities, county councils and parliaments participate, which is important for Catalonia. I would ask you to support these five amendments. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u11	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Tardà i Coma has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are beginning the third stage of this budgetary procedure. The first was the presentation by the Republican Left of the amendment as a whole; the second, last week, the presentation of the nearly seven hundred amendments, all defeated in the Commission, and today we are starting this third stage, the defence of the amendments before you at the specific plenary session for the approval or not of these budgets. I must say that we understand that this is a purely mechanical exercise, since the government already has the majorities, has been able to work on them well, and we know that we will not go ahead with any of our amendments, which is not an obstacle to leaving some of these things for a compendium. We believe that it is a budget that perfectly reflects the ideology and priorities of the People's Party, has the legitimacy to try and has in fact obtained sufficient support. Even so, we believe that it should be made clear, first of all, that social investments are being mortgaged for the benefit of, for example, excessive military spending, with a 30% increase. It is clear that all the Republican amendments which sought to lower military spending in order to increase social investment, as I said, have been rejected. At the same time, these budgets maintain a gigantic, squandering structure of the State, of the state structure, since they maintain double standards in all matters relating to health, education, culture, sports and housing, all of which are transferred to the autonomous communities. You do not believe - you have never believed - in the principle of subsidiarity; on the contrary, in recent years you have accelerated the process of re-centralisation with the excuse of the economic crisis. Thus, they maintain double structures, parallel structures, and what they have done has been to strengthen Jacobin DNA. Despite the existence of a composite State, in the background, what they have done is - increasingly in an uncompromised way - to intensify the structure of the Jacobin State. And for example, a button: all the amendments that we wanted to transfer to the governments of the Valencia Country, the Balearic Islands and Catalonia those resources of housing, culture, education, etc., according to the percentage of population. At the same time, what these budgets do is to strengthen this radial Spain - Madrid Kilometer zero - in everything that affects the large infrastructures of all kinds, which is why we still have no date, due to lack of investment, for the completion of the Mediterranean corridor. For you it is not a priority; moreover, no one escapes that you have the will to make believe that the rational thing is for the Mediterranean corridor to pass through the city of Madrid. 500 billion invested in high speed and have generated in parallel 20 billion debt to ADIF and Renfe, ceasing to invest in Cercanías, which inevitably leads us to remember the 4 billion pacted with Rodríguez Zapatero a few years ago, of which only 400 have been invested and this year 90 are invested - I speak of the principality of Catalonia -, with which 3600 are missing. Consequence of all this? I will give you three or four iconic examples: in Catalonia today, on the Vich-Ripoll railway line, the trains still circulate at the same speed as they were in the 1930s; the N-340 jams; the eternal works of the N-II and the maintenance of tolls unlike what happens on the Madrid radio highways, which will be rescued with public money. That Jacobinism, as you know, is also reflected in everything that affects culture. For a sample, a button: the museums of El Prado and Reina Sofia have allocated 84 million, while all museums in Catalonia have 3.7 million. Look, logic is perverse, isn't it? The museums of Madrid are museums of all, but the Andalusian museums are only, to your mind, for Andalusians, or those of Catalonia for Catalans. It is this mentality that everything begins and ends in Madrid. These are budgets that do not aim at the productive economy either. They still do not make a decision on R & D+i, except in everything that affects the military, and they continue to take precedence over large companies and oligopolies over SMEs and, of course, benefiting from a rebound in the speculative economy. Finally, they are expolitadores budgets, expolitadores of the Catalan Countries, País Valencià, Illes Balears and Catalunya. Look at what reason you can explain it; and do not see in the words that I will tell you any kind of attack on other territories of the current Spanish state, because if they do, they would not know what the Republican mentality and ideology is. I just want to say what is the reason why the citizens of Cantabria have to have an investment of 343 euros per inhabitant or, for example, those of Castile and León, 405 euros per inhabitant, while in the Valencia Country, being Valencian or being Valencian means receiving 118 euros. I repeat, why does a Valencian or a Valencian have to receive 118 euros per inhabitant and instead in Castile and León receive 405 euros? It's a very easy subtraction: 405 and 118. Thus, the fifth characteristic of these budgets is the expoliation suffered by the Catalan countries - Pais Valencià, Illes Balears and Catalunya -, which is why we will vote against. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u13	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, I have the floor, Mrs. Honorato Chulián.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u14	Unfortunately, this 2017 will be another lost year to address the great challenges our country faces. That is why our group has tabled an amendment to this whole section, to section 15, above all because we consider it to be a failed section on its three legs; the first, on the revenue side, which we will be dealing with this afternoon on the articulated side. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u15	Silence; silence, ladies and gentlemen, please. Quiet. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u16	Thank you. On the one hand, the People's Party foresees an increase in income, but it is an increase derived essentially from the change in the economic cycle. It does not address the structural problem of the lack of collection of the Spanish public sector, which we have already highlighted in the amendment as a whole and on what we are asking again and again. On the other hand, the forecasts of revenue collection and social security contributions are overly optimistic - we are talking about 7.9 and 6.8 respectively - because this would mean an elasticity in the economic collection much higher than the one known so far. Both the Banco de España and Airef have certainly been cautious with these figures. Nor does it seem that we are moving forward in the fight against tax fraud or, if we move forward, we are doing so very slowly. The data provided by the technicians of the Ministry of Finance put on the table that the results achieved by the Tax Agency barely represent 21.7 of the total estimate of fraud between 2012 and 2016. It is true that it improves on the previous figure, which was 19%, but we are still talking about a huge degree of inefficiency around 80% of the estimated annual fraud. In the proposal for alternative budgets that our group presents, we have reflected how it was necessary to address a tax reform that increases the progressiveness and ensures the fiscal sufficiency of the State to properly finance the economic and social challenges that our country presents today. This increase would result in an increase of EUR 19.5 billion, based primarily on measures to strengthen fiscal escalation and the fight against fraud, which we amounted to EUR 7.5 billion; an increase in income resulting from increased economic growth of EUR 4 billion; and a moderation and delay in the deficit reduction target, namely EUR 7.4 billion. This was a direct reflection of our amendment 3735, which makes it possible. As far as the second leg is concerned, as far as public administrations are concerned, it seems to us that they are a continuous, conservative budget and that they seek to consolidate a model of exit from the crisis which consists of normalising it in some way. We are talking about a less social and progressively more central State, with autonomous communities and more weakened and permanently controlled and intervened municipalities. Mr Montoro said - we have heard the minister several times - that funding is being increased by approximately 5 billion to the autonomous communities, and that is true, but this is the cause of the direct application of the current legislation and is a reflection of the increase that is expected to be raised in the budgets, but nothing more. In the case of the municipalities it is even worse, because in programme 942.M we find a decrease of 1.6% and the supplementary funding fund is reduced to 0.47. This has a strong effect on those cities that are financed by the tax transfer model of the State. It seems to our group that there is a need for greater correspondence between the contributions that local authorities will receive and the forecasts of greater collection and growth. In addition, the constraints on the management of the surplus of local authorities continue, and the limits of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability for the Reinvestment of Surpluses continue. In that regard, we have also tabled concrete amendments to overcome that situation, which is impotence to many municipalities in our country. As far as the civil service is concerned - it is the third of the legs on which we wanted to turn this amendment into the whole section - we do not think that we are dealing with three major problems which we have on the table; one is the deficit in public employment, the other is the increase in the averages of the staff and, lastly, the increase. I know that you are going to talk to me about the agreement - we will talk about that later when we do it on the joint text - but I believe that these three problems are not addressed in the current text. We are referring, first, to the need to eliminate the replacement rate, to which I shall refer later. Secondly, to an extraordinary public offer of employment for those services that are saturated today and that need urgent attention, such as the offices under the Ministry of the Interior for the management of the DNI, prison institutions, social security and research. An extraordinary public offer of at least 30 000 places is needed in three successive offers in order to meet the saturation needs that we find today in the provision of these basic and fundamental services. Thirdly, to regain the purchasing power lost by the corps of officials. It seems to us that 1% is deepening again in the gap between the loss of purchasing power of public employees in our country. We have proposed 2.7% to begin gradually that path of recovery of purchasing power lost by public officials or employees in our country. Fourthly, work to recover full coverage in situations of temporary incapacity and financial endowment in order to be able to negotiate a collective agreement of labor personnel in the service of the General Administration of the State. Together with the amendment to the whole, we also tabled partial amendments, including contributions to consortia in the cities of Cuenca, Toledo and Santiago de Compostela; increase of consignments in the conservation and restoration of cultural goods: regional incentives to industrial location to enhance the development of the productive fabric in areas of special needs; economic endowment for free software migration in the public administrations; increase of consignments of training of public employees, a consignment that is always pending or demand to be covered; and, lastly, an increase of 10 million euros in staff of the Tax Agency to address the problem of tax fraud. It is necessary to turn this section around in order to be able to address the great challenges that this country has, and there we will always be looking at the future and in the ways that will make this country more fair, equitable and therefore more competitive. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u17	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr López Milla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, with your presentation of the budgets in Section 15 to a large extent you have brought us back to the debate on the amendments as a whole, although at least today you have saved us the comparisons you made then between drinking drinks and devoting more resources to meeting the needs of dependents, supporting the unemployed or combating poverty. Since it has referred to the socialist autonomous governments, I would like to say that when your Government resorts to the measures taken by those governments to prevent dependents or the elderly from having to pay for the co-payments that you have imposed on them, it is not fighting against any drunkenness of public expenditure, but against the possibility that those who have been demanded sacrifices and who have been stripped of their rights will be able to recover them now that macroeconomic figures improve. But no wonder they do, Minister, they don't, because it's always been about that. The attempt was made to take advantage of the crisis to implement policies that you would never have dared to launch if you had not had such a powerful excuse. What was at stake was to use the crisis as a pretext to increase the burden of taxes that we all pay regardless of our income level, such as VAT, and to lower the contribution of the capital incomes of large companies and taxpayers with higher incomes. The purpose was to use the excuse of the crisis so that people who were entitled to unemployment benefit, scholarship or dependency aid, for example, would lose that right forever. It was about taking advantage of the crisis to cut off the state of well-being, to diminish what is public for everyone, which needs more than anyone those who only have the protection in the opportunities that they can offer. What was at stake was to use the crisis as a pretext for promoting precarious and low-paid employment, for competitiveness gains to be made at the expense of workers and for the benefit of large enterprises. Rajoy has already announced this when he was in Japan on official visit in October 2013 and told Japanese entrepreneurs to come to Spain to invest because they could pay very low wages and earn a lot of money. Thus, Mr Montoro, it is how you have managed to achieve that wage of wage earners, which accounted for 51% of GDP in 2009, would become 47% of GDP in 2013 and have fallen below 46% of GDP at the beginning of this year, after a three-year recovery of activity. The gross surplus of the companies recovered their pre-crisis levels more than a year ago, at the beginning of 2016, but wages are still below the level they then had. As regards 2008, we have lost 30 billion euros of annual salary, but the remuneration of capital has grown by 14 billion euros. The gap is not closing; in fact, in the first quarter of this year we have seen how the profits of companies in terms of national accounts have grown almost twice as much as wages. What you are claiming, Mr Montoro, is that the loss of weight in the income from work that came with the crisis remains with the recovery, just as you are in charge of ensuring that social expenditure does not participate in that recovery to the same extent as that recovery takes place. If you compare the evolution of GDP since it grew again in 2014 with the evolution of social spending in the successive general budgets of the State, you will see that in those of this year 2017 there are about 16.7 billion euros missing for social spending to maintain the proportion to the GDP that you had in the budgets that you prepared in 2014. Why is this happening? Because, year after year, you have been opening up a gap between the variation in social spending and the increase in GDP, because, first, you cut rights, you removed social benefits, and now you are making sure that the growth of economic activity does not allow you to recover what you lost. For this reason, in the 2017 budgets, unemployment benefits fall twice as much as in the last socialist government, which means that there will be hundreds of thousands of households that will have no income at all. And not only that, the items intended to promote employment will be after three years of GDP growth 25% less than those in the 2011 budgets; those for research, development and innovation will be 20.4% less; those for infrastructure, 49% less, and those for trade, tourism and SMEs 38% less than those in 2011, and that is supposed to be the main contribution of the so-called orange policies. And look at what things are, spending on education will be almost 6% lower in the 2017 budgets than in 2011, which will cause the share of education spending in GDP to fall below 4% for the first time in decades, precisely when the People's Party is going to approve the budgets with the support of a party whose leader said only a year ago that if it could just leave a legacy of its way through politics it would be an educational pact that would include allocating at least 5% of GDP for that expenditure. [[Applauds]] But not only that, Minister, with regard to 2011, policies to promote equality fall by 7% and policies to combat gender-based violence by 9%. With these resources do you intend to draw up a state pact against gender-based violence, Mr Montoro? The People's Group has accused us of announcing that we would not approve these budgets before seeing them. But we know you. We did not know the budgets, but we have known you for a long time and we knew your policies, and these budgets only continue with those policies. And if it wasn't enough to get to know you and your policies, we know the update of the Stability Programme that you have taken to Brussels, where you set the stage for this budget and for the following exercises. What do you say in that stability program? They say social spending will have been compressed by 1.75 points of GDP between 2014 and 2017, and they say it will be contracted by 1.35 points of GDP by 2020, which means that another EUR 15 billion of social spending will be missing to maintain the burden on GDP of the 2017 budgets. That is what you have told Brussels. So, Mr Montoro, if your budgets are in line with what you have promised to the European Commission, if they continue to prevent social spending from growing at the pace of GDP developments, if they avoid returning the stolen rights and do not compensate the vast majority of citizens for the sacrifices they have demanded, do not be surprised that we announce our opposition before knowing their budgets or voting against them when we see them later. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u19	Thank you very much. Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Montoro, first of all, I would like to thank you for thanking me especially for the work of the Committee on Budgets. I too would like to thank the work of the staff of the House - the stenographers, the secretarial staff and the lawyers - because we politicians have not made it easy for them to deal with these General State Budgets. On the subject, I was beginning the debate on all these budgets by quoting Aristotle, who said that politics is the art of what is possible. If we have budgets, this will be the first law in two years and this will really open the legislature and make other legislative proposals possible. And this, how do you do it? As we have done and as other parties have done, which is negotiating and not blocking; it is not a slogan that, perhaps, allows us to win primary elections, but does not allow us to unlock a country or to improve the lives of citizens. If we take the decision to vote before we know what is and before we can negotiate it, we are not helping to make absolutely nothing more possible than failure. We in Citizens believe that failure is not an option. By the way, the spokesman for the Socialist Group, Mr López Milla, has been comparing it to 2011 and has said that there are a number of games that are less than 2011. It is no wonder that in 2011 Spain had a record public deficit above 9%; we spent 100 billion euros more than we had and then President Zapatero did not even dare to try to correct the situation; what he did was to advance the elections. One can compare with what one wants, but doing so with 2011, frankly, is not a good option, because it is literally comparing it with failure; a failure that we would have if these budgets were not approved. These budgets can be criticized or improved, but we must start from the fact that, for starters, they are unique and, according to the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, if a section falls, the entire budget falls. So there is little point in trying, on the one hand, to put amendments in full to all the sections, to vote against all the sections, to say that they have many partial amendments - by the way, after the thousands of transactions that have taken place, it is not known which items are being taken off - and to pretend that they are being approved, because they are being voted against. We can vote in the Commission against the reports of the presentation in all sections and the Socialist Party, which now seems to be pummeled, also voted against all but the Royal House, which surprisingly voted in favour. With regard to Section 15, Ministry of Finance and Public Service, we are pleased that, with our proposal, the budget of the Tax Agency and the budget for the fight against fraud has been increased by more than 10%, ending with continuous cuts that began, of course, in 2008 with the Socialist Party, but then continued with the People's Party. We are glad that this changes and will do everything possible to make it a better fight against fraud. Before asking the Spaniards for more resources, which is what Podemos, PSOE and other forces have wanted, what must be done is, firstly, to eliminate waste and duplication and, secondly, to fight against fraud so that those who do not comply with their obligations are required to do so. With regard to the improvement of the tax administration, we are grateful that, according to our proposal, there is a shock plan in the economic-administrative courts, which is a good idea because there is a bag of files that should be resolved. This is in line with the shock plan set out in the budgets for the modernisation of the Justice Administration, with EUR 100 million. In other words, these budgets, as has been repeatedly said, represent an additional EUR 5400 million for the Autonomous Communities. In other words, cuts in education, health care, social services and dependency are eliminated, because only 70 % of the budget is spent on these items by the autonomous communities. Obviously, this money comes, like everything else, out of the taxes that the Spanish pay, but if there is not an instrument that updates the income of the autonomous communities, they will take two years to collect them. And at the height of irresponsibility, the very parties that have proposed the non-absolute to the General Budgets of the State, in the autonomous communities where they govern, have included these revenues as part of the income, so that if this happens they will fail to meet the deficit, lead the budgetary management of the autonomous communities to chaos and will inevitably make further cuts, because the non-is does not lead to any further cuts. With regard to the municipalities, the People's Party tabled an amendment at the request of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, which we approved by all parliamentary groups. This is what happens on the surface, but in reality we are back to the same point as ever; if there are no budgets, there will be no amendment allowing the municipalities to make sustainable financial investments. To say no to the budgets is to say no, not only to things that do not like, but above all to those that have been voted for, for example, the deduction of cinematographic productions - which will be discussed today and approved unanimously - the forecast that the municipalities will be able to reinvest their surplus or the increase in resources in the fight against fraud. For all these reasons and for others that we will go into detail in the debate, we will support these budgets. We will do so primarily because of responsibility, because the alternative is an extension, it is instability, loss of international image and a serious risk in the recovery of the Spanish economy, as well as because failure is not an option; we will also do so, Mr Montoro, because we believe that you have fulfilled the investment agreement. As I said several months ago, if you were to comply - as you have done - with the investiture agreement, we would vote in favour of the budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u21	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Madrazo Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Firstly, I would like to express my solidarity and that of the People's Parliamentary Group with the victims of gender-based violence, because the commitment of this political group and the Government of the People's Party to the fight against this social scourge is absolute and is also reflected in these budgets, with a 9.9% increase in the budgetary allocations for the fight against gender-based violence. [[Applauds]] I would also like to take advantage of the presence of the Minister of Finance and Public Service to congratulate him on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group and on my own — to him and his entire team — for the great work of negotiation, dialogue and effort he has done at the head of his ministry in order to carry out these General State Budgets, which demonstrate the great experience of the Minister of Finance and his great political size. Today we are going to take one more step towards stability, towards meeting our deficit targets and, ultimately, towards the credibility of Spain in order to make economic recovery possible and to continue to create more than 500 000 employment opportunities each year. It will be possible thanks to this agreement with other political forces that will give their support to these general budgets because they are good for Spain and for the Spanish. From the People's Parliamentary Group we also want to express our gratitude to those groups that have given their support to these budgets because this great task cannot be done alone and cannot be done by the Government of the People's Party alone; moreover, that is what the Spaniards asked us in the last general elections: the need for agreement and dialogue because, working together, we will be able to increase the welfare of Spanish society, which is what we are all working for here. The adoption of these general budgets is the guarantee that in 2017 there will be 500 000 new jobs, is the guarantee that Spain will continue to lead Europe, ladies and gentlemen, in growth and job creation and we can move together towards this great goal that must also be common: to get twenty million Spaniards working in 2020. The employment data for the month of April, ladies and gentlemen, have been historical and the available data for the second quarter show an additional acceleration in the growth of the Spanish economy. That's the big goal. All indications are that the government's forecast of growth of 2.7% of GDP is prudent and even the growth expected by the European Commission. It's all good economic news for the Spaniards, but some of them try to water down the party to everyone with black predictions that year after year never come to pass. Economic improvement is a reality and is also perceived by Spanish families, especially in the form of employment, ladies and gentlemen. Here we have talked about expolio, but the worst expolio to which the Spanish families were subjected was done by the socialist governments, leaving three and a half million Spaniards unemployed, without work, and a Spain on the verge of bankruptcy. That's the biggest expoliation. Unfortunately, they transform the debate on these budgets into an exercise in demagogy. The Socialist Party and Podemos put forward thousands of amendments that are very good on paper, because paper endures everything; what they say they want to do, watering millions throughout Spain, is very nice on paper, but they know that they are amendments that are impossible to carry out with resources that are always limited. The money available is the money that is and comes out of the pocket, the effort and the work of all the Spaniards. We were able to check it in the Committee on Budgets, and to show a button. In section 15, the Ministry of Finance and Public Service, which we are debating today, Podemos and PSOE requested more than EUR 350 million against a budget item that had only EUR 15 million. Therefore, they are nothing but fireworks because there are simply no resources, there is no money to finance it. You have not even bothered to take the calculator, you have not proposed an alternative to these budgets that are vital for the future of many Spanish families, because the reality is that you have no project for Spain, beyond slogans or slogans. If they actually had a project, they would not present this large number of amendments which do not add up, but which multiply the costs. As far as the amendments are concerned, we have already discussed them in the Committee on Budgets and that is why I am not going to dwell on them; I will only mention the whole amendment tabled by the Socialist Group to this section 15, which is based on a poor credibility of the revenue forecasts. We do not share that view, but it is not that we do not share it from the People's Group, but that all agencies agree that these revenues can be viable and feasible. They simply put forward an amendment with ill-paying excuses because the tax collection data for these first four months of the year are giving a result of an increase of 11% thanks to the fact that with the People's Party government, wealth is generated, economic growth and employment is created. That's why more is collected, despite lowering taxes on the Spaniards. In this context the budget of this section 15, Ministry of Finance, which continues to preach with the example, with a budget in which, unlike other times and governments, the expenditure of each euro is rationalized, which, as I said before, comes out of the efforts of all Spaniards. The most significant departure is the increase in the initial allocation for the Tax Agency, which, as the Minister has said, is a basic institution. This item is increased by EUR 100 million, which will allow the Tax Agency to continue to work as it is doing, brilliantly, in the fight against tax fraud. I believe that it deserves the recognition not only of the People's Parliamentary Group, but of the whole House, for those great results that are breaking historical records year by year in the fight against tax fraud. If they vote no, they will forget the massive mobilization of resources made by the Ministry of Finance for the autonomous communities and municipalities. If they vote no, they will forget the important improvement in public employment, not only to stabilize temporary employment, but also with new places to which thousands of opponents can access. If they vote no, many of the resources allocated by the Ministry of Finance to improve the development of the digital administration, to make public administrations more agile, more efficient, at the service of citizens and not the other way around, will be closing the door to all such progress. I'm finishing up. Beyond the figures contained in the budget of this section 15 is its qualitative importance, which we from the People's Parliamentary Group value very much, which will lead us to vote against its amendments to this section because they do not improve these general budgets nor contribute to improving Spain and put their partisan interests before the general interest of all Spaniards, which is what the People's Party Government is working for every day and what it is working with the approval of these General State Budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u23	Thank you very much. [[The Minister for Finance and Public Service, Montoro Romero, asks for the floor]] Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u24	Thank you, Madam President. I just wanted to reiterate my gratitude for the political support received and to insist that these budgets were open to all the political groups in the House. Those who today say they do not feel welcome are not right, because the Government has been prepared to negotiate on the specific contents of these budgets. As a result of the political pacts, the intention is for us to submit to the Plenary compromise amendments, some of which are as important as the reduction of the inter-island transport of the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands with the Peninsula and also Ceuta and Melilla. These are compromise amendments that we hope will thrive with the openness and collaboration of all the political groups in this House. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u25	Thank you very much. We continue with the debate on Titles I and II. In the defence of amendments, Mr González García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. We will take advantage of the debate on Titles I and II, which are introductory titles to the draft General State Budgets, to remind you of what has been the process of this draft budget since its inception. We will go to December, when the government came here to present its spending ceiling proposal; a spending ceiling that implied a cut of 5 billion over the 2016 budgets. That spending ceiling was already anticipating what these budgets were going to be: budgets that we knew were going to consolidate cuts over the past decade; and consolidating cuts over the past decade, at a time of economic growth when the economy is growing to 3%, implies that the 3% that is growing the economy is only left in the pockets of a few, that is to say, disciplining citizens in that, despite having emerged from the economic crisis and beginning the recovery, they will never notice. That recovery will only be noticed by big companies and the economic elite. They overcame the debate on the spending ceiling here in this House thanks to the votes of the People's Parliamentary Group, Citizens, PNV and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Then, in April, they came and presented here the draft budgets that was the one that obviously anticipated that spending ceiling. It was simply a realization of this cut of EUR 5 billion which they distributed across all budget lines - 22 % in housing, 11 % in infrastructure, a reduction in investment in virtually all the autonomous communities, except in the Canary Islands, 6 % in unemployment - and there was only a significant increase in one heading, in defence, which increased by 30 %. We are presenting an amendment in its entirety and supporting it as a budgetary alternative. Mr Montoro said a moment ago that he was challenging any party to present an alternative to the budgets he had presented. We introduced her. We presented a budget alternative in which we demonstrated that more could be entered to spend better. We presented an alternative macroeconomic picture in which we demonstrated that an additional €55 billion could be raised to give a one hundred and eighty degrees to the economic policy that you are carrying out. We demonstrated that the reversal of social cuts over the past decade could be financed. We demonstrated that cuts in the rest of the items could be reversed, that the loss of purchasing power suffered by pensioners and public workers could be recovered, that the social gap could be closed by guaranteeing minimum income for all citizens, that life could be made easier for self-employed people by means of a progressive quota and that the productive model could be started to be oriented towards a model based on value added, financing an energy transition plan and the reversal of R & D+i cuts produced during their legislative term. We show them that our measures are not chemera and that what we propose can be achieved in one year; similar measures are already being implemented in our countries. Titles I and II environment, e.g. in Portugal. They came here to the full debate and overcame it by the hair, with triple vote and triple tie to 175. We then moved on to the stage of partial amendments. We have tabled 1600 amendments and of all the groups almost 6000 amendments. But what was our surprise when we met in the Committee on Budgets with something that began to look like House of cards and ended up looking like a chapter in The Simpsons! [[Applauds]] This would be funny if it were not so serious, because the People's Parliamentary Group, Citizens and the PNV behaved as genuine government leaders in the Committee on Budgets, trying to hijack the parliamentary debate from them using tricks that had never been used in any other budget debate in history. They began by vetoing the revenue amendments tabled by all the groups that served precisely to finance the expenditure amendments that we were submitting. They then tried to veto 4000 amendments from all groups: territorial amendments, amendments affecting headings in all sections, amendments relating to social expenditure, amendments proposed by groups and social entities of all categories. They used an approach that had never been used and had no precedents, proposing that the Committee on Budgets refer the amendments to the Government so that it could veto them before discussing them, acting as Mr Francisco de la Torre, here present, chairman of the Committee on Budgets, of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, as a genuine delegate of the Government to the Committee on Budgets, and violating the separation of powers, producing an interference of the Executive Power in the legislative power unprecedented. [[Applauds]] That was the plan you had for the amendments tabled by all the groups, and you appeared in the presentation where you intended to implement that plan with an ear to ear smile. But they were wrong to add up and couldn't execute the plan. You're even worse for incompetent than you are for corrupt and you're bad enough to do evil. It is incredible what we have seen in this Committee on Budgets. [[Applauds]] We are used to the PP using parliamentary devices to undermine the Legislative Power, torpedoing the processing of laws, control commissions and avoiding any kind of parliamentary debate in this House; what we did not count on was that Citizens, a party that came to the elections saying that it was going to regenerate the institutions, was the main collaborator of the Government to curtail the parliamentary debate and to avoid the budgetary debate in this House. If this is what you mean by regenerating institutions, please stop; please stop embarrassing us and embarrass this country. [[Applauds]] Finally, thanks to your error and the cooperation of the various opposition groups, we were able to discuss all the amendments in the Committee on Budgets, and they were normally discussed, but thanks to the fact that we were able to circumvent the veto that you tried to impose. Nothing happened, they were debated and used the parliamentary roll of the People's Party, Citizens and PNV to overthrow all the amendments. The only thing that happened was that the Citizens fell back into the face of having to vote against amendments they were carrying on their own agenda, to overthrow all the amendments proposed by the rest of the political parties. We now understand that this may be the reason why we tried to bring down the amendments before they were discussed. We now come to the debate in plenary and we have to thank the Socialist Party, working with us and the other opposition groups, to avoid the veto of the budgets in the Commission, but we also hope that the Socialist Party will be able to do in some way that these budgets will not be approved. It should be remembered that if these budgets are approved it will be for the vote in favour of Pedro Quevedo, who is sitting there, deputy of New Canarias... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u27	Your Honor, you have to finish. It's been a minute since your time.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u28	We are still in time for Congress to reject these budgets and for this to be the first step in getting the People's Party out of government, a party that is looting institutions, because one way of looting them is through these budgets. So please do something so that these budgets are not approved, which you already know depends on Mr Pedro Quevedo. Let us hope that its conception of plurinationality is not to outsource the management of support to the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Lasarte Iribarren has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u30	Thank you, Madam President. We started today the plenary debate on the amendments to the 2017 draft budgets, and I can say that a large part of the debate that we are going to attend in this House these days will be able to thank the Socialist Group and the rest of the groups that do not support this bill we have stopped the parliamentary troupe that the parties that do support it, the People's and Citizens' Party, with the consent of the PNV and UPN, by trying to avoid the debate in the parliamentary seat of thousands of amendments tabled by the different groups, altering in an arterial way practices and long-standing parliamentary uses in this House. The clumsiness of the groups supporting the Government, unable to correct the sum of EUR 15 million under heading 31.02.929.M.510, and the introduction of compromise amendments on those amendments which the PPs and Citizens wanted to veto, have allowed the debate and the voting of thousands of amendments in the Commission, the majority of which have been moved to plenary, and, in the view of the Socialist Group, the dignity of the parliamentary debate in this House has been saved; a debate in which the right-wing roll has been seen, which has not been adopted in the Commission by a single amendment of the Socialist Party. And today's speech by the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Paco de la Torre, has again given arguments to those who have been accused of acting as delegate of the Government and of not acting with the equanimity and prestige that has always been the chairman of the Committee on Budgets. The draft budgets submitted by the Government can be described as unfair and continuous. It is a budget that deepens the existing inequality in this country and does not contribute to increasing social cohesion or modernising the productive model or improving the productivity of the Spanish economy. It is a bad, insolidary and unbelievable budget; it is a budget that does not distribute well neither expenditure nor income and is insolidary with some autonomous communities and the weakest. I had a demand in my speech to ask the government not to discriminate against Ceuta and Melilla, not to leave them out of the agreements it has with the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands, because it did not seem fair to us to do so, and that is why I have to say that we welcome the information the minister has given here in Parliament that his initial idea of leaving Ceuta and Melilla is not going to be so. But I would like to denounce that the Government's veto prevented a debate in the Commission of our amendment in favour of Ceuta and Melilla being equated from the point of view of the benefits of allowances for the carriage of passengers and goods to agreements with the Balearic Islands and the Canary Islands. We also demand that the Government, beyond speeches and postures, engage once and for all in the fight against gender-based violence, and instead of vetoing the Socialist Group's amendments, support them, and devote financial resources to helping women victims of gender-based violence and their children, to devote more resources to combating the scourge of gender-based violence. That's enough! The rise in pensions of 0,25 % with an inflation forecast of 2 % is unacceptable. It is inescapable for you to veto the debate and vote on amendments that raise pensions by 2% and improve minimum pensions by 2.5%, claiming that it represents an increase in expenditure and at the same time veto an amendment to the income of the Socialist Group for EUR 9 billion which could have financed that and other expenditure which you have also vetoed. It is an insolidary budget and consolidates a record level of public debt in Spain around one hundred percent of GDP that mortgages the future of this country and future generations. Investment in infrastructure is at a minimum level, jeopardizing the country's economic growth potential. It is inconsistent with public employees, who have lost purchasing power in these years and who at times of growth like the current ones see how they continue to lose real income levels with a rise of only 1%. It is the project and ideology of a party that has never considered equality and social cohesion to be essential to speak of a more just and prosperous society. It is more of the same, a continuous project of adjustments, with a reduction of the spending ceiling of more than 5 billion euros regarding the ceiling approved in 2016. It is a project that aims not to build a solid welfare state, but to jibarize it, leaving public spending at less than 42% of GDP, one of the lowest in the European Union. It is a project that condemns more than 14 million Spaniards who receive some kind of transfer from the State to see their incomes reduced, to have less purchasing capacity. It is unfair, because it is not fair that the growth of the economy does not move to those who have suffered the most from the crisis; it does not reach the long-term unemployed, young people with precarious jobs and child poverty. It is a project that consolidates a productive model based on low wages and low-quality employment, with the emergence of precariousness and poor workers. The most palpable and bloody example is that of young people, creating a wage supplement program that encourages entrepreneurs to hire young people with low wages, who will already come the state with charity to improve them. He seems perverse to us. They assume a change in a productive model due to the rise in exports, but they hide that these increases are mainly based on the wage devaluation produced by their labour reform, a reform that needs to be repealed, and on improvements produced through innovation, technological development or internationalisation; in fact, they substantially reduce all the allocations for these aspects and support for SMEs. In Spain, we must bet on education and R & D+i to change the productive model towards higher-value activities, and we must bet on a knowledge-based economy that will enable us to improve productivity, cope with technological changes and generate quality jobs. And none of that appears in the draft budgets presented by the Government. A draft budget that consolidates a regressive and unfair tax revenue structure that runs counter to income redistribution. The revenue estimate you make recovers levels from 2007; but companies contribute almost half of 20 billion less than in 2007 despite the economic growth of recent years and the recovery of the pre-crisis profit level. They make estimates of revenues that are not credible, according to Airef himself, that question them and consider them to be or may be overestimated, which, if so, would force the Government to further cut spending to meet the deficit target or to meet the deficit one more year. In short it is the draft budgets of the right of this country, with some concessions to the budgetary partners, but without changing the conservative ideology and the objective of reducing the public underlying its political project. Do not expect the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u31	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u32	I'm done, President. ... a project of continuous budgets, more of the same, more inequality, precariousness and a condemnation of millions of people to a worse future. And I'm done. With regard to the amendments tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Titles I and II, I support Amendment No 2493, in defence of the university autonomy of UNED, and Amendment No 2494, in which we oppose supporting sexist and non-inclusive educational models. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u33	Thank you very much. I remind you that the speaking time is seven minutes; and although we do not do so in other debates, in this debate, given the time we are in, at seven minutes we are going to remove the microphone. Thank you very much. Mr Alli Martínez has the floor at the turn of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Deputies, very good afternoon. I join in congratulating Mr De la Torre, chairman of the Committee on Budgets, on the work that the services of the Committee on Budgets have done: lawyers, stenographers, ushers, etc., etc. I also want to thank you for the tremendous effort you have made. I insist that I will not surprise anyone if from here, from the rostrum, I make public that we will support the General Budgets of the State for this year 2017. For one simple reason: because Union del Pueblo Navarro, for forty years, therefore since its foundation, has always sought stability in Spain. Because stability, ladies and gentlemen, is what makes our country, Spain, and it is what in the end certainly favors the middle classes and it is what favors above all so that fewer and fewer families are unemployed. We will therefore approve at this historic moment that Spain is experiencing these General Budgets of the State. I would like to say to Mr Lasarte, spokesman for the Socialist Group in the Committee on Budgets - I thank him for quoting the Navarro People's Union, which is to be thanked - that he has forgotten to mention a non-minor issue, at least for the interests of all shipwrecks in this House. You have made it clear that, of the nearly 2000 amendments tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Congress of Deputies, there are four that are included in the fifteenth annex to the draft law on the General Budgets of the State; and that were discussed and adopted in the paper. It would be good if you could explain your intention to vote on the amendments tabled at the request of the Socialist Party of Navarre. And I also want to say that these four amendments have to do with three essential infrastructures for the future, for the future of Navarre and therefore for Spain as a whole. There are four amendments with EUR 4 million for infrastructure such as the Navarra Canal, to reach the irrigation at 21 500 hectares in the Ribera de Navarra; the high-speed train in the time it has to arrive, and finally to connect Navarre via the A-15 road on the route practically from Tudela to Soria. Therefore, what the Navarro People's Union did here in Congress, in those great necessary amendments in which we agree with the Socialist Group, was, with a role of mediation and moderation, to seek the support of the People's Group and the Citizens' Group. The Basque Nationalist Party also joined in that support, which we thank you for, because it also believes in infrastructure for the Foral Community of Navarre. We encourage you to explain this also to your partners in the Government of Navarre, because they want to paralyse it. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the two seats of the Navarro People's Union are probably scarce, but I said here - and I stress again - that they are two decisive votes for these general budgets and for future bills coming to this House. We are two Members who are not on the front pages of the media at national level, but who are seeking the good of Spain and therefore the future and hope of the Foral Community of Navarre. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u35	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u36	Thank you, President. I'm going to intervene for allusions. It is true that budgets are subject to a complex parliamentary process, but more so in the case where political governance is based on a minority executive who needs alliances with other groups to move them forward, as is the case with the 2017 Budgets. Once again today we have seen the criticisms of the PSOE and Podemos groups, as has already been the case in the Committee on Budgets, mainly because of the Bureau's decision to refer to the Government, for its approval, the amendments which entail a decrease in revenue, as well as those which entail an increase in credit, in which it is only possible to admit them if a decrease of the same amount is proposed in the same section. In view of all these criticisms also of our group - and as I mentioned in the Committee on Budgets last week - I repeat the following: that the decisions taken by the Bureau are covered by Rules 133 and 134 of the Rules of Procedure; that from this group - and we have said this to the rest of the parties - there was no problem whatsoever in discussing any amendments from the other groups. We are not afraid to portray ourselves, as some or some groups have accused us, for having to reject some amendments in which, despite being able to agree, we have not voted for them because what we have done has been to value and prioritize others that go in line, both with our electoral programme and of course with the good agreement achieved by our group for Euskadi. An agreement that will improve the quality of life of Basque citizens. An agreement also ravaged by measures for the improvement of employment, economic development and competitiveness of enterprises, as well as the promotion of cultural activity. We understand that introducing amendments to the budgets means taking decisions and prioritizing some measures to the detriment of others, and this is also a political exercise; yes, an exercise in which we must portray ourselves. That is why sometimes we also understand that it is not worth having a tailor's drawer in which everything fits, even though we too will surely have taken hold of it on some occasion. It is not about making right-handed and sinister amendments; it is about putting forward amendments that are effective and efficient, that can help improve people's quality of life and serve to boost economic development. We must not forget that the budgets for 2017 have been drawn up on the path of fiscal consolidation, in an economic policy strategy set by the European Union, where deficit control is necessary. In addition, in this context, the setting of the expenditure ceiling as well as deficit targets were validated in Congress, measures which, on the other hand, constitute the prerequisite for the elaboration of the General Budgets of the State. Our support for the budgets comes, on the one hand, because our group has managed to translate into the same numerous improvements for Euskadi, flattering Euskadi, opportunity, agreement, stability and wisdom, and by the conviction that a sign of stability must be sent to the markets, to Europe, and ultimately to the international economy. I would also like to recall that the extension of the accounts would not have been most appropriate in the current context, since, among other things, it would have involved working with an obsolete macroeconomic picture, with harsher replacement rates, without an increase in civil servants' salaries and even without greater spending space for the autonomous communities. It is true, it is not the budgets that the PNV would have made, because we are not part of the government, but we are certainly satisfied that we have been able to include numerous demands from our political programme, which was supported by the citizens of Euskadi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u37	Thank you very much. Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking because the colleague who had to make the speech in principle, Toni Roldán, is sick, and from here I wish him a speedy recovery. I would like to take this opportunity, in view of the fact that there have been repeated references, to make a few minimal clarifications. We can all make the judgments of intentions we want, but in the end we have discussed all the amendments tabled, that is, the number of them and making a compromise at the last minute makes it quite complicated, not to say absolutely impossible for normal minds, at least for mine, to understand what the groups were proposing. In fact, as some speakers have said in the paper, it is surprising that the Socialist Party or Podemos do not support the amendments which they advocated in the paper and which have been incorporated into the text of the Budgets Act. In the end, when thousands of things are decided at the same time, it is quite complicated to know literally what is being done, especially when all these amendments that, as the Rules of Congress say, should be dropped in the same section, are all modified at the last minute, probably because they were wrong at the beginning, but if that is so, you literally don't know. I'll give you an example. Right now the Socialist Party has an economic and political presentation and its two representatives, Eduardo Madina and José Carlos Díez, do not want to defend them because the majority, at the request of Pedro Sánchez, wants to change them substantially. Do you know how many amendments you make? Eighty-seven amendments. With eighty-seven amendments it is possible to turn everything around. Surprisingly, here we have thousands and thousands of amendments being debated, and what happens is that there is no time to find out, and indeed thousands of them have also been voted on in the Commission. But do not ask other groups, not for a minimum of knowledge, but for pure wisdom, that we can value these amendments one by one, as some of your Members have proposed to us, because there comes a point where you literally don't even know what you originally proposed, let alone what you changed at the last minute. [[Applauds]] As far as qualifications are concerned, I understand that they are free and everyone values the work of the other Members as they want or can do, but I am not going to go into that. If I want to go into Titles I and II - to which no time has been devoted here - which are, as the statement of reasons for the General State Budgets Act itself says, the most important of all, because they fix the amount of appropriations for the various ministerial programmes and the corresponding revenue to cover these expenses; credits certainly fix their overall volume in the whole debate, and that in principle the total volume should not be altered. In the end the decision that this House has to make is not what would be the wonderful budgets that one would like to have or if instead of the budgets we would all prefer to have a letter to the Magi, which is not done by double-entry, but only one is literally putting the wishes; that is, if we have new budgets or we continue with the extension of budgets with which we have already had six months; with the extension of budgets in which the revenues were not met, and we had to make adjustments, non-availability agreements, etc. I think that would be worse for the Spaniards, because moreover if there are no new budgets, many of the investments have been complained here and several groups have written a letter to the Magi with thousands and thousands of items in terms of investments, but the question is not whether billions of euros can be financed with 15 million of a contingency fund, that is not real because that cannot be done, the option is if some more works can be done, which is what distinguishes a new budget that allows to carry out new projects against the extension, which only allows to continue the projects that were already. We also have to decide here whether, through the new article 19, the interims are going to have a new opportunity and it will be possible to fix the problem that all the Spanish administrations have generated from the Francoism of taking out fewer places than they need for the public service creating a class of precariousness within the public sector. An agreement has been reached between the Government and the trade unions, let us see if it is possible to implement it. We must see whether, as we have said before, the autonomous communities can reasonably be financed or will have to wait two years to receive those more than 5 billion, which would mean non-compliance with deficits and face further cuts. In short, we will decide whether Social Security can pay pensions in December, an issue that seems to be no longer important and that has been forgotten by everyone. But of course, ladies and gentlemen, if contribution income does not cover pension payments, the rest of the Treasury has to support it; on the one hand we have to make it easier - now, with the legislation in force, it is not possible - for the Reserve Fund to be available and, on the other hand, for the Treasury to provide social security with income from taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets must be approved because not paying pensions in December is not an option. Even if that was the only reason we would have to approve them, but these are also good budgets because they are a model change. There are no new taxes, in fact, there is some reduction, as in the field of VAT, and some new deduction in the company tax on film productions. There are no new cuts and EUR 4 billion are allocated to support the middle and working class to help them get out of the crisis and to change the productive model. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, although it is difficult to say this after a procedure which, as you have seen in the Committee on Budgets, has been problematic, I ask you to take the best option, the only one that is compatible with the improvement of the living conditions of the Spanish people, who support these budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u39	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As is customary in the discussion of Titles I and II, I will make an overall assessment of what these budgets represent, because over these days we will discuss each chapter and section in more detail separately. Ladies and gentlemen, these General State Budgets are the budgets that Spain needs to consolidate economic growth and job creation, a growth that for the third consecutive year will be around 3%, something that has not happened for more than ten years and that shows that the efforts of the Spaniards and the structural reforms approved by the Government of Mariano Rajoy have made us overcome the worst economic crisis that our country had suffered in the past seventy years. Secondly, the 2017 General State Budgets are necessary to extend the benefits of recovery and job creation to all citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that there are still households that are having a bad time, and that is precisely why these budgets emphasize people, in strengthening our welfare state. So much so that for the second consecutive year social expenditure will exceed EUR 300 billion. The previous time that this figure was exceeded was in 2016 on the occasion of the budgets approved by the People's Parliamentary Group in solitary in the summer of 2015. In this way, almost 7 out of every 10 euros available for all public administrations are earmarked for social protection. Mr Lasarte, for making a comparison with the last budget approved by you, by the Socialist Party, in the General Budgets of the State for the year 2017 they are no less than 11 billion euros more for social protection than in the General Budgets of the State for the year 2011; I repeat, 11 billion euros more. In this regard, I would also like to highlight the more than 54 billion extra funding for autonomous communities and local authorities, whose spending, as you know, is more than 80% social spending. In short, the Government has chosen to contain the chapter on investment in infrastructure to opt for investment in people: pensions, health, education, justice. On the contrary, the thousands of amendments tabled by the left focus primarily on investment in works, that is, a return to the notorious Plan E of the socialists, which generated no jobs and yes thousands and billions of euros in public debt. That is the change of productive model proposed by both the Socialist Party and We can, back to 2009, return to those policies that left us on the edge of the precipice. Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard many times from the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group that the ultimate end of all our policies is job creation and you will agree with me that the results are frankly positive. Last April we were left with more than 650 000 new jobs in the last year, a figure that clearly points out that if we do not deviate from the course of the last five years, the objective of this legislature, which is no more than reaching the twenty million people working in 2020, is an affordable objective; demanding, yes, but possible. In this context, the improvement of public employment, with a three-year plan to reduce interinity from the current levels of 24% to 8%, is complemented by a wide range of public employment, which for this year reaches 67 000 new jobs, as well as the extension of the replacement rate to 100% in some sectors more than those envisaged. In short, it is the budgets that Spain needs to consolidate economic growth and job creation and, at the same time, help to keep no one out of recovery. These are budgets that will give continuity for the fourth consecutive year to what the Governor of the Banco de España called a virtuous triangle of our economy, that is, strong economic growth, intense job creation and no less external surplus. This year we will again achieve 2% of external financing capacity, driven, without a doubt, by the spectacular figures that are reaching our exports, almost 70 billion euros in the first quarter, after growing by 14.1% compared to the previous year. It is a change in the productive model that, together with the intense growth of aggregate investment, up to 3.6% in the first quarter, and the continuity in the path of reduction of the public deficit started in 2012, makes our economic growth healthier and more sustainable than that of the last ten years and also advances its continuity for the coming years, provided that, I repeat, we do not deviate from the path marked by the reforms approved in the X Legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets are the result of consensus, the agreement of up to seven political parties present in this House, which is proof that some of us have understood the Spanish mandate in the last two elections: dialogue, debate and reach agreements that are beneficial to all Spaniards. It is a pity that the parties on the left did not want to participate in this dialogue and refused at all times to discuss even the content of these budgets. That's the reality, ladies and gentlemen. Those who have not wanted to dialogue are precisely those who are now talking about slashing the debate, of cacicada and other adjectives that can be used to give a tweet or an ex-abrupt in a television debate, but who do not hold themselves in a serene debate, as Parliament should be. Can anyone give any willingness to dialogue to those four months before knowing the government's plan - I repeat, four months earlier - they announced - and I quote textually -: is it impossible for us to support the General Budgets of the State, not even abstention? We will table an amendment to the whole, thousands of amendments and, finally, we will vote against it, you said in December. This is how the left understands dialogue and the search for agreements. This professed intention to charge the General Budgets of the State, to put on the wheels the economic recovery and the creation of employment, has led them to present thousands of amendments worth almost 47 billion euros against a section that has only 15 million, three thousand times more of the budget of that section, knowing that, if the General Budgets of the State were to be approved, they would be left in mere wet paper. It has been a clear exercise of parliamentary filibusterism, more typical of university assemblies than of the Congress of Deputies. It is true that in Podemos this is not surprising at all, but it is of a party that was of government, and it was serious, like the Socialist Party. Subsequently, these same parties sought to collapse the work in the Commission by submitting thousands of transactional amendments, correcting their error. Now you did recognize your mistake and did not use that eight-day period you had to do so. Fortunately, they also had little success. These are the facts, as well as the fact that the Government has not vetoed a single amendment against section 31 above, and here we were talking about four thousand, the intentions of the Government, that the debate was being curtailed. Ladies and gentlemen, not a single amendment. Where is the closed debate? Only in the twisting imagination of some spokesmen of the parliamentary groups on the left. [[Applauds]] And I will tell you one thing, Mr González García, which I told you in the Commission when you were talking about the interference of the legislative power in the budgetary procedure: Read the Spanish Constitution, in particular Article 134.5, which says that the Committee on Budgets must necessarily seek the opinion of the Government when it comes to amendments that increase expenditure or reduce revenue. Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen - and I am finishing, Madam President - we are the majority of the parties that have not fallen into your trap. We are the majority that we are about to add; add to progress in recovery; add to continue creating employment; add to improve the quality of employment and add to strengthen our welfare state. I end by thanking the other parties that are going to support these budgets: Citizens, PNV, UPN, Foro Asturias, Coalition Canaria and Nueva Canaria, because they have decided that the general interests of the Spanish and not their partisans prevail. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u41	Thank you very much. We continue with the debate on Title III. In defence of amendments, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u42	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, on this second round, when I am going to have some more time, I would like to reflect on the operation of the Committee on Budgets over the last two weeks. From our group, we do not make a positive assessment. In any case, we make a negative assessment for the purpose of amendment on the part of everyone. It has not been exemplary, and I understand that non-exemplarity stems from the Commission's own Bureau and from the conduct of the Government. I am not going to go into a dynamic of whether they vetoed or not, or whether a party was exhausted or a party was not exhausted; but I am going to make it clear to them that our group has vetoed seventy amendments to the joint text. Of the seventy amendments to the joint text, fifteen were exact amendments to those tabled in the last three budgets and which were then not vetoed; exact: points, commas, capital letters, lowercases, intercommissioned; exact; and the previous Bureau of the Committee on Budgets did not choose to send them to the Government or the Government to veto them. This is a reality; this is done. In any case, we also found that amendments, obviously not the same but very similar, from other political groups were not vetoed. When tax benefits were asked for, I don't know who, they were vetoed. If tax benefits were asked to do not know which, they were not vetoed; this is a finding. We therefore need to improve the functioning of the Committee on Budgets, and we offer our cooperation so that what has happened in this process does not happen again. The truth is that it has left a bad taste of mouth, and I am convinced that also for the Government and for the groups that support the Government in this parliamentary process. It makes no sense to veto amendments or to veto amendments that were not subsequently vetoed. And that our group did not submit any additional compromises to try to avoid this veto, because we understood that there was no improvement in the parliamentary procedure either, and, as has been shown, the Government has a majority, as all previous governments had, in order to be able to approve and reject such amendments as they believed necessary. Having said that, I would now like to refer briefly to the six amendments that we have tabled to Title III, staff costs, and that none of these six - to be said - have been vetoed. Of these six, the first, the main and the one that would practically disable the rest, 4779, intended to delete article 19 regulating replacement rates. At some level of the Administration it is absolutely absurd that we have replacement rates, when local corporations are generating the surplus they are generating; when they have a financial situation that is what they have, it makes no sense to restrict it with a replacement rate to a level of the Administration that is fulfilling its obligations in terms of fiscal consolidation objectives. We therefore call for the generic elimination of all article 19. In the event that this was not possible - it is no contradiction -, in the event that the majority did not consider it necessary to eliminate the whole of Article 19, we tabled four subsidiary amendments which would apply only if the former were not accepted. With the 4780 we intend to increase the replacement rate of certain groups, such as the Administration of Justice, firefighters, health care, education, research staff, etc., to 110% instead of 100%. With the 4781 we intend to allow the autonomous communities to increase the number of places in the recruitment of fixed labour investigator staff. The 4782 is intended to increase the replacement rate for the places of researcher, professor and university professor. With 4783 if intended Title III eliminate temporary contracts for temporary staff in R & D+i projects where they have private funding and replacement rates are financed by such private funding. Finally, the 4784 is a somewhat different amendment, as it seeks to amend Article 32, which sets out requirements for the determination or modification of the salaries of non-staff and labour workers who affect mutual partners with Social Security. This is a situation that did not occur until 2015. By the very characteristics of the mutual partners with Social Security, we believe that the reports of the committee monitoring the collective bargaining of public enterprises should not be required, because they are not applicable. This was the case until 2015, so we asked for that situation to be maintained. For the six amendments, especially for the first, which calls for the deletion of Article 19, we ask for their support. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u43	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Jordà Roura has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u44	Thank you, President; very late, ladies and gentlemen. I was looking for Mrs Madrazo, but it seems to me that she is not there; I would like, please, to be sent a message - I will also tell her in private - because it is up to me to say so. Gender-based violence is gender-based; gender-based violence is male-based violence. [[Applauds]] If we do not get used to calling things by their name, it is very difficult for us to address and solve the scourge of macho violence. Having said that, I would like to refer to Title III: Wage freezes, pay cuts, increase in working hours, increase in workload, reduction in vacation days, etc. Between the People's Party and the Socialist Party they have written - and so it has to be said - the history of the loss of purchasing power of officials in the Kingdom of Spain. Rajoy announced at the end of 2011 a new freeze for 2012 - a few days ago - a measure that was accompanied, in addition, by the equalization of all officials working thirty-seven and a half hours a week. This didn't end here. That same year their Christmas pay was abolished, the elimination of three of the six ordinary days of free disposal and the additional days available to them according to their age were also broken down. A whole declaration of intent to obey - in short, to comply - with the austerity policies ordered by the troika. But luckily, we already have the green sprouts here. Mr Montoro is not here now, but he has explained this to us on more than one occasion in recent weeks: the economy is going well and the crisis has already passed; or at least this is repeating not only Mr Montoro but also the government of the People's Party. According to you, the situation has changed, and see if it has changed that you continue with your constant policy of impoverishment of the popular classes and of the public workers, which is the subject now before us. If things go so well, these budgets should reflect the recovery of the purchasing power of officials, but I ask: Why don't they even link the increase in the salary of public workers to the CPI if we go so well, if the economy goes so well, if the green outbreaks are everywhere? You present us with a 1% increase in the wages of public workers, i.e. below the CPI, once again losing purchasing power. The crisis has been the excuse for clearly worsening the services that public workers provide to citizens. In fact, during these years the staffing has been reduced because of their policies, and we have to say this so clearly and so loudly, but now that the economy is going well, in your opinion, not only do we not recover the necessary levels of civil servants for the proper functioning of the public administrations, which they serve for this purpose, but they do not only raise a 100 per cent replacement rate, that is, that, without abolishing jobs in the public administration, each vacancy for a retirement will be rebutted. You with these budgets are telling us, for example, that for every two retirements you only need to hire a new official and that public services are not supposed to lose any quality with this and other measures of your Government. Do you really believe that? Do you really think you're going to convince someone with these policies? Successive budgetary laws have largely limited the provision of public sector places, and this is true as a temple; it has in many cases resulted in reductions of up to 20% of staff. Among the most affected, as always, are the municipalities which, as a result of the application of extremely restrictive replacement rates, have seen the provision of public services and the operation of internal services and, of course, of structure. In fact, if we look at the implementation of municipal budgets - any municipal budget - we see how in recent years chapter 2, which is expenditure on contracting goods and services, has been gaining weight in relation to chapter 1, which is personnel expenditure. The consequence of these policies is clear: pure and hard outsourcing. The neoliberal ideology of the People's Party defines perfectly its management model that refers to public services. We are accustomed to this; you, in the name of the crisis, apply your ideology, and for years in Spain you have won the most masochistic austerity, a austerity evidently disguised as cuts, more cuts and more cuts, and above all the alarming call for efforts, more efforts and over-efforts to the citizens on foot and also to the officials of the Kingdom of Spain, read the public workers. I'm done. Please stop dismantling public services and impoverish the public workers who provide these public services, which, I repeat, are less and less. In Republican Esquerra we will in no way be complicit in their miserable public policies. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u45	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, I have the floor, Mrs. Honorato Chulián.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u46	Good afternoon again. Every time we deal with budgets we always hear about the great kindness that comes to us with the agreement between the unions and the government. We already welcome that agreement at the time, it seems to us that it is in the right direction, but just as it is in the right direction it also points us all the way we have to go. We are talking about that the People's Party, precisely the People's Party, has sunk public employment in this country and what it is doing now is throwing lifeboats. With lifeboats, they're putting on medals, saying they're saving public employment. No, no; now they want to disguise themselves as firemen, but we know that behind that costume are those who have burned the forest and burned the public employment of this country. They're not gonna fool us with fake medals on grandiose deals. [[Applauds]] This agreement, as I say, points to the principle of which direction to walk. We agree on that, but there is a long way to go. It seems to us that the entire public employment deficit that we have accumulated in recent years, since 2011 - we are talking about nearly 140 000 jobs - is not solved by this agreement. This agreement consolidates employment, but does not create new jobs; what it does is transform precarious employment, temporary employment, which is being provided today in public administrations, into decent and fixed, indefinite employment. That's good. But that temporary employment has also been accumulating precisely because of the pernicious offers of public employment to which we have been subject in recent years in the budgets. They have no other obligation but to meet this need, but they are also cornered by Europe, they also had much more room, there was a European sentence after ruling that drew the colors of this country saying that the public sector had very high rates of temporality and that we had to solve it. I remember a 2012 news report that said that the time record in Andalusia was held by an SAS doctor who had signed more than two hundred temporary contracts in a year. I imagine that doctor signing between operation and operation. Are we crazy in this country? Who sets the replacement rates? They are set out in the General Budgets of the State. Here we go later. What's going on? Here we have, as I say, a consolidation agreement, but not a job creation agreement, and that deficit needs to be addressed. We have tabled a range of amendments in which we believe that, first of all, we must move towards the elimination of the replacement rate - some of the previous rapporteurs have commented - because it does not make sense that from the General Administration of the State, from the General Budgets of the State, we must say what the replacement rate that the rest of the administrations of this country have. It doesn't make sense. Each Administration is responsible for its needs, knows what needs it has and can choose whether to invest it in chapter 2 or chapter 1. The problem is that there is an interference in the state of expenditure and you are deciding how to spend, not what money. [[Applauds]] But in case this measure does not have the full approval of the House we have presented another fan with subsidiary measures that could also partially solve this problem. We are talking about increasing the areas of priority coverage to 100 per cent for local government, non-university education, port authorities and state ports, and an additional quota for research centres. We have also tabled amendments to increase the replacement rate in education and health by 150%. We believe that it is necessary to expand the collectives that are covered by the agreement between the Government and trade unions. It seems to us that it is important because, if not, within three years there will be public administrations that will not have been able to exceed that replacement rate and will not reach 8%. The municipalities, if they do not include certain staff in this consolidation agreement, will not be able to reach 8% in these rates of stability which are sought from the European Union and which we think are the right way. This as far as employment is concerned, but also - they said earlier from Esquerra - as far as wages are concerned. If things are going so well, it is time for us to start returning the effort to the public employees of this country, it is time for us to start thinking at least about stopping the loss of purchasing power. For that it is necessary not to increase by 1%, but to increase, as we propose, by at least 2.7%. In conclusion, two quick questions. The draft budgets presented a so-called rotational or interim redundancy clause that caused a horrific stir because it was an exercise we do not know very well whether of extreme impericy or of trying to collate a change of course. This led to an amendment by the People's Party that did not solve the problem and a correction to the amendment by the People's Party that corrected what was presented in the draft. With this topic I simply want to say that we will be vigilant in case it has been just a matter of error or if there is something behind and there is some movement in the future. Finally, before concluding, I would like to highlight another issue related to a curious practice in the Budget Act, which is to systematically repeat the need to respect labour legislation. That seems good to me, but if we have to systematically repeat the need to respect all the laws of our legal body, the Law on General Budgets of the State would never end. Moreover, it is much more dangerous to fail to comply with other laws for public coffers, such as the Contracts Act itself or even the Criminal Code, which, as I say, have been much more harmful to public coffers in recent times. That is what I am referring to in relation to the twenty-seventh and thirty-fifth additional provisions - which we shall then discuss - in which this excuse for labour legislation is used to invade autonomous competences, to decide on management models and to enter into areas of competence under other regulations. We can't use the General State Budgets Act... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u47	For the Socialist Group, Mr López Milla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group originally tabled a total of twenty-eight amendments to the various articles included in Title III of the State General Budgets Bill for 2017, covering from article 18 to 34, inclusive. Firstly, I would like to point out that one of the main objectives of my group was to demand an overall increase in the salaries of staff serving the public sector of 2% compared to those in force as at 31 December 2016. Today we can say that, if the government's inflation forecasts are met, public workers will lose purchasing power for another year. This loss of purchasing power can be even greater if the price increases that are forecasting various agencies are met, so that, if government forecasts are overwhelmed, we will have a greater loss of purchasing power than that contained in the State General Budgets. In any case, the Socialist Parliamentary Group believes that the increase in public wages should begin to be, as all trade union representatives of workers in the sector demand, even somewhat higher than price growth. If we are talking about recovering economic activity and trying to ensure that the exit from the crisis is balanced and fair, we must ensure that those who have lost rights and purchasing capacity can gradually recover the standard of living they enjoyed before the crisis. On the contrary, the budgets for 2017 condemn millions of workers to continue to lose purchasing power, even more than they lost in some of the toughest years of the crisis. It does not seem to us that this is a fair compensation for the sacrifices that were demanded of them then now that we are talking about the recovery of GDP. With regard to the provision of public employment and similar tools for managing the provision of staff needs, my group has tabled a number of amendments because it considers that the budgets for 2017 do not adequately address the needs of minimum staff for carrying out research activities and consolidate a situation in which fair tax treatment is not given to contributions made to associations made by public employees who have excluded the right to trade unionize, as is the case with civil guards, the Armed Forces and judges and magistrates. We understand that the tax treatment of these contributions should be equivalent to that of those made to trade unions by public employees, who do have the right to belong to them. The budgets we are debating, ladies and gentlemen, do not allow the principle of university autonomy to prevail so that each university can define its teaching policy, provided that it conforms to the expenditure control that is relevant. Solutions should have been arbitrated to solve the problem of temporary teachers hired doctors, as well as the internal promotion problems that exist within universities. Nor has universities been included in the additional replacement rate for temporary employment stabilization, which includes up to 90 % of positions which, as budgeted, have been temporarily and uninterruptedly occupied at least in the three years prior to 31 December 2016. We propose to do so in one of our amendments. Similarly, we understand that the public service budgets for 2017 do not respect the budgetary provisions of Chapter I of the corresponding expenditure budgets in different sectors and administrations, including the local government, where the replacement rate should have been set to a maximum of 100 per cent, in line with the approaches of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. In the process of reducing the general government deficit and containing public expenditure in recent years, the local government has reduced its number to a greater extent than the rest of the general government, from about 646,000 employees in June 2011 to 547,800 employees in June 2016, a reduction of 15,26 %. Local corporations have worked very hard to prevent this from being reflected in the reduction of services provided to citizens and have had to do so without addressing the necessary change in the funding model of local entities. This has led them to a situation in which they face serious difficulties in providing the public services entrusted to them, both local and sectoral legislation, whether autonomous or state. This situation will be aggravated by the regulation that the Budget Bill for 2017 provides for in terms of the replacement rate of local government staff, especially in small and medium-sized municipalities with already very low staffing levels. As for article 19.2, we are against the original wording of it and we were against it because of what it meant for the whole group of interim education, health care and other groups that might be affected. Therefore, our initial proposal, in line with that advocated by the trade unions, was to delete this paragraph, as we understood that it was sufficient with the basic Staff Regulations and the Staff Regulations. In the Committee on Budgets we had the opportunity to see how the People's Parliamentary Group itself ended up amending the Government's text, once they realized the error that was being made in establishing a measure that was already being legislated as if a de facto temporality rate of only 8% had been achieved. Although the new wording seems to us to be an improvement on the original text, we will abstain because we have not yet been definitively convinced. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the beginning, it is about 2017 being for public employees, in all areas and sectors and whatever their category, the year in which recovery also reaches them, the year in which they are beginning to compensate for the sacrifices demanded of them in the past. Let us not be told that this is impossible because only with the amendment that remains alive, in which the Socialist Group intends to change the rate of the IRPF so that taxpayers with incomes above EUR 100 000 contribute more to the public purses, would it be more than enough with those resources to ensure that public employees maintained their purchasing power in the 2017 financial year. In fact, there would be money for that and also for financing other measures proposed by the Socialist Group in the various sections. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor on the position-setting table by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u50	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to me to defend the amendments that my group, Citizens, has tabled to Title III of the State General Budgets Act, concerning staff costs. The truth is that it is up to me to do so in the most important budget period in relation to the public administration since the transition. Indeed, because these General State Budgets present the largest supply of public employment in our history, 250 000 positions of civil servants in three years and a reduction in the temporality and precariousness of public employment. [[Applauds]] It must be said that this offer of public employment does not occur because Mr Montoro has been attacked by goodism or because Mrs Báñez has been shown to be a virgin. This offer of public employment has two truths. The official truth is that it is the product of an agreement signed between the trade unions, the autonomous communities, including those of change, and the government - indeed, it is true that the trade unions have been denouncing the precarious situation in which the interim workers were - for a long time - but the truth, as the children say, is that this comes from the earring given to us by the Court of Justice of the European Union when in its judgment it equated the compensation of temporary contracts with that of the indefinite. What the European Court came to say is that the structure and the working system of the Spanish market, with a situation of duality, is unfair because for the same job there are completely different working conditions and this, gentlemen, is nothing new under the sun, we have been saying for several years. I am a little tired and I will take the opportunity to remember again that we have been denouncing, wrong that it is, for a long time it is time for the indefinite contract to be established with increasing compensations, because what we are going to do today - and we are going to support it - affects state officials, but there are still a lot of people who work in the private company that still have situations of inequality. The fact is that Title III, staff costs, envisages a public offer of employment for this year of 67 000 places, implying a replacement rate of 100 per cent in the sectors considered priority and also an additional rate of 90 % to convert the contracts for interim contracts, the contracts covered in interim, into spaces provided and covered on a fixed basis. Here I am going to address the spokesman of the Socialist Party because I believe that the compromise amendments have not been sent to him because, although the original wording of the State General Budgets Act had included education along with health, justice and some other sectors, we, Citizens, realized one issue: that they had forgotten about the university. Thanks to the amendment which we have tabled and which we have negotiated with the People's Party - Amendment 5961 - I am very pleased to be able to say that we have managed to get the interim places of the university, also those of the temporary doctors - and we in our university have some - into the pool of interim places so that they can be consolidated. We have also achieved, through the same amendment, that the Ramons and Cajals who are accredited to do so will be able to choose places of university holders, something they had not offered up to now. I believe - and I am proud of my parliamentary group - that in this case Citizens have once again played a fundamental role and not only have we achieved historical claims of elements such as the CRUE - that some will consider caste - but also - and personally seems to me an important achievement - that 1500 temporary doctors will have a fixed job. [[Applauds]] And that's the people. So, personally, I'm happy. It is a very important achievement and I am reminded of a lot of congratulations and also the face of many anonymous colleagues and teachers, temporary doctors hired, who have a sufficient, commendable qualification, who have worked very hard and who will finally be able to compete for places that will allow them to have a stable job. And now, if some are ashamed, they vote against it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u51	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs López Ares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like the spokesman in the previous titles of the Group to withdraw the accusation of corruption that he has made to Members of the People's Parliamentary Group, because I believe... [[Rumors]] I again ask you to withdraw the accusation you have made against my colleagues in the People's Parliamentary Group, because to accuse you you have to have proof. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u53	I have not addressed any of them expressly and yet the People's Party is the only party that is accused of corruption. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, one second. In order for a Member to speak, the Presidency must give him the floor. And now the Presidency is asking the honourable Member: do you withdraw what the honourable Member is asking for?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u55	Excuse me, Madam President. No, I do not withdraw it because I have not addressed any of the Members of the People's Party in particular and because the People's Party is accused of corruption. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u56	Go on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u57	Thank you, Madam President. We see what we have in front of us. [[Rumors]] But I continue with Title III of this draft General State Budgets. I would like to start by highlighting the objectives pursued by these budgets. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u58	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u59	We are talking about a budget that aims to continue economic recovery and job creation. It aims to improve the quality of such employment, including the quality of employment of civil servants and public workers. Its aim is to strengthen public services. And these objectives fall within two principles - who does not understand these principles cannot understand these objectives that I have said or can understand these budgets - which are budgetary stability and financial sustainability, because quality public services are not compatible with public administrations or with broken public finances. After the years of crisis, in which a policy of prudence and restraint was necessary, a policy of recovery and improvement of the conditions of public employees has returned to the path of economic growth and employment in both the private and public sectors, and for this reason, already in the past years, especially since 2015, a policy of recovery and improvement of the conditions of public employees has been initiated; a policy that is continued in this draft budget and is based on two pillars, dialogue and agreement. Dialogue and agreement between parties, seven parties; among all public administrations, autonomous communities and local entities, and with social actors, majority unions. Because in the People's Party we understand that participation and co-responsibility improve our public services and thereby our welfare state. As a result of the dialogue and agreement, these General State Budgets for 2017 incorporate, first of all, an extension of the priority sectors for which the replacement rate is 100 per cent, so that the public employment offer for 2017 - already mentioned here - will mean at least 67 000 places in all public administrations. But in addition to the stable employment linked to the replacement rate, these budgets incorporate the real commitment of the Government of the People's Party to job stabilization; they incorporate the agreement with the administrations and social partners, which is an extraordinary process of temporary job stabilization that is regulated on a basic basis in this Law on General State Budgets, because without these state budgets there will be no process of stabilization or elimination of interinity. The fundamental objective is to reduce the number of temporary staff in public administrations through one of the largest public offers of employment in democracy. From the People's Parliamentary Group we want to reassure all the interims in all areas, and for this there will be a final wording in which the reference to three years will be removed so that our commitment to stabilization, our commitment to other political forces, to other administrations, to social partners and, above all, to all public employees is fully and absolutely clear. As a result of this process, close to 275 000 consolidated jobs will be achieved over the next three years, affecting all areas and administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the two previous measures, this draft budget also incorporates our commitment to improving wage conditions. Already in 2016 the remuneration of public workers increased, which will again increase by 1% in 2017. I told you in a previous plenary session: of course a greater increase would be desirable, but I repeat to you again that one thing is the desirable and the other different as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the realistic and sustainable public service policies incorporated in these budgets, we find the traditional attitude of socialists and communists, with approaches that would once again lead this country to the crisis and the abyss. Proof of this is the amendments that have been tabled to these budgets in Title III. I will highlight some of them: eliminate or increase replacement rates; pay increases of 2% in the case of the PSOE and 2.7% in the case of Podemos; reduction of the working day to thirty-five hours. In the face of these proposals, they try to convince us that they do not entail any increase in expenditure or increase in revenue to finance them or more deficits. Ladies and gentlemen, the thirty-five hours can cost the public administrations between 800 and 1200 million euros and the wage increase for the general government alone would mean, according to Podemos' proposal, approximately 278 million euros. That is without forgetting the other proposed amendments, which have as their sole purpose the elimination of all controls at the different levels of the administration, which would again lead to unlimited expenditure. But we already know that for you socialists and communists, public money is nobody's. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two positions in this House: that of those who do not believe in shortcuts and understand that the future well-being depends on the structural reforms and the serious and realistic decisions that are being taken at this time, and the position of the short-term planners who, with demagogic approaches, only guarantee us all a future of difficulties and poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, in this House there is...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u60	Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] We move on to the debate on Titles IV and VIII and Section 07. Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor in defence of amendments by the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u61	Good afternoon. The People's Party government budget for 2017 is against people and not for people. With his refusal to accept the Socialist Party's amendments - his and those who support him in this budgetary adventure - the loss of the purchasing power of the pensioners is confirmed. The pharmaceutical copayo, since 2012, has amounted to 5 points of loss of purchasing power and with the reform of 2013 today, with an increase of the positive CPI, poverty is confirmed, the loss of purchasing power of the pensions is confirmed, consolidated and expanded. As we said, the CPI is already positive, gentlemen of the People's Party - even if you don't want to listen to me is what there is - and we are talking about a 2.35 % loss. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2016 survey of living conditions confirms that the support that has been given and is giving older people to their families during the toughest time of the crisis is beginning to pass. The poverty risk rate over the age of sixty-five has increased by three tenths. Here I will remind you of the words of a colleague of yours, gentlemen of the People's Party, who in 2010 said: Pensioners do not have to be penalized for miscalculated deviations from the CPI. It is not a smaller amount, because these increases are consolidated; a small cut today becomes a big cut tomorrow, a cut that harms a lifetime. Well, ladies and gentlemen, despite the economic growth of 2.5%, pensioners are condemned to a loss of purchasing power, violating Article 50 of the Constitution, as well as the second recommendation of the Toledo Pact, which you gentlemen of the People's Party also signed. I remind you that we, the socialist governments, even with negative macroeconomic data, always increase minimum pensions on a constant basis, pensions that affect more than 3 million pensioners and, unfortunately, many of their families who depend on these small pensions. Between 2004 and 2011, the increase was 53,3 %, with an absolute majority of 3 %. Now they will say that socialists freeze pensions. Well, you didn't freeze, you stole directly, and you steal again thanks to your 2013 reform. Ladies and gentlemen, over the course of these six years the People's Party Government has financed pensions in a solvent way thanks to the Reserve Fund which the Socialists left in 2011 more than EUR 66 billion. And today, with this erratic policy that they have had, they have almost completely squandered the Reserve Fund, there are only 15 billion left, they have left a legacy of a deficit of 19 billion euros Titles IV and VIII and Section 07, Passive classes, together without any measures to solve it and also try to square a deficit, because the numbers do not come out in terms of contributions, with a loan, mortgageing future pensions. Gentlemen of the People's Party, you know that you are currently not recovering the revenues of 2011, and all thanks to your labor reform of 2012, a labor reform that resulted in a loss of one million jobs in just 1.5 years. These budgets further weaken the system, indebt Social Security, authorize the use of the assets of the Reserve Fund, which are already frankly scarce, and also continue to overvalue income and undervalue expenditure, and I will give you two data that mark a trend, as the Secretary of State for Social Security would say. In the first quarter of 2017 the increase in income has been 2.6; according to your budget, it should have been 5.5, we are talking about a difference of 3 points. To a greater extent, you once again place a heavy burden on the system. It is clear that if we add the loan to this, the deficit is insured. In addition, they fail to fulfil their commitments not to finance employment policies with contributions and, in order to end it - which is already quite paradoxical - the transfers from the State budget to the system are diminishing, and this is totally contrary to what the parliamentary groups have said, as well as to what the experts had said. In conclusion, the deficit is chronic in the Social Security accounts. We have told them that with this deficit, which comes from labour reform to a large extent - and they know it because the revenues of 2011 were balanced - we will only recover solvency through income. The agreement of the socialists of the end of the year, recognized by the Secretary of State for Social Security himself, which entailed the increase of the maximum bases as well as the rise of the minimum wage, is a way, is the only way out that at this time we find for the support of the social security system. The Socialist Group has had three objectives with the amendments it has tabled: to ensure the economic sufficiency of the pension system, to improve the protective action of social security, and to improve the income of the social security system and the benefits to its beneficiaries. That is why we have called for a 2% increase in the CPI with a revision clause and a 2.5 for minimum contributory pensions and SOVI, and that is not a whim, gentlemen of the People's Party. Minimum pensions, which the Socialist Party has increased over the years, guaranteed a reduction in the number of pensioners below the poverty line. We have also called for an increase in orphan pensions of 40%, and it is not a whim either. Gentlemen of the People's Party, gentlemen of Citizens, you, who are people of order and responsibility, will remember that in February an initiative was adopted that involved linking the increase in the CPI with the repeal of the pension reform. We see, I don't know if it was posture or cynicism. I am finishing, but I do not want to fail to mention the serious deterioration of the public service of Social Security, which, due to the significant downsizing - it has just been said - which has its maximum exponent in the attention of the citizen, is really being broken, and we invite you to see the waiting lists of Madrid or Barcelona. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you want to break the chain that represents the principle of intergenerational solidarity and I hope - and I leave it here, I want it to be recorded - that what you want with this budget is not to push the Committee on the Toledo Pact to take measures that will narrow the gap between social benefits and limit the solvency of the system. We have told you over the months: there is not going to be the Socialist Group, with the social protection system not a step backwards. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u63	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled three amendments to Title IV on pensions, 4785, 4786 and 4787. [[The Lord]] In the first of these, the only thing we are asking for is an increase in pensions paid by the social security system from 0.25 % to 1.5 %. Last week we heard in the Commission that pensions had not lost purchasing power over the last year. I just want to remind you that the CPI was 1.6% and the pensions increased by 0.25%; therefore, if the numbers do not fail us, there was a loss of 1.35 % in 2016. That is why we understood this amendment to be fair. Amendment 4786 sought to increase the retirement and invalidity pensions of the social security system in its non-contributory form also in accordance with the CPI provided for in these budgets, i.e. by 1.5%, and to place them - do not lose as a reference the overall figure - in an annual total of EUR 5227.86, which does not seem to us to be an unorbited amount. We therefore believe that this was also a relatively easy amendment to support. Finally, Amendment No 4787 intended to amend Article 45 in paragraph three; in particular, it intended to delete paragraph three. I remind you that paragraph three states that the pensions of the extinct SOVI, of the Compulsory Old Age and Invalidity Insurance, will not be revalued during 2017 when they come into concurrence with other public pensions other than those mentioned in the previous paragraph, which is the rest of pensions. That the SOVI pensions are not revalued when they come into concurrence with other pensions seems to us - if I may say so - almost perverse in itself. The SOVI pension earners are usually widows who combine pensions of absolutely ridiculous amounts - if I may say so - so that they are not allowed to be updated does not seem to us welcome, nor is this going to unbalance the social security system. I would ask you to vote in favour of these three amendments, but I cannot ask you to vote because these three amendments have been vetoed by the Government. Yes, I am going to emphasize a point I was insisting on before. Amendment 4787, the issue that SOVI pensions are revalued even if they come into competition with other pensions, was presented in a textual, full form, simply changing 2017 for 2016 in the previous General State Budgets by our group and was not vetoed either in Congress or in the Senate. [[Applauds]] In the 2017 budget it has been vetoed; some change will have been generated. I have already pointed this out to you in the Commission, the only change I see is the government partners. In any case, we would all have to reflect on the fact that we are vetoing a thing as elementary, as basic and of as little economic impact as the revaluation of SOVI pensions when they compete with other pensions - if I may say so - of misery or almost misery, both SOVI and others. In any case, I repeat, I do not ask you to support these three amendments because I am unable to do so, but I am going to ask you to support the amendments in other headings. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u65	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. The content of the draft State General Budgets for 2017 does not correspond to what the Kingdom of Spain needs to combat the lack of employment and for quality employment. The omnipotent market continues to be left as the only valid mechanism for job creation and, moreover, for its quality, which leads to nothing good. The Government continues to put forward a budget for the Troika's policies. Despite having complied with all its recommendations, with all its cuts, the debt continues to expand, which exceeds the Spanish State's GDP. Realities. Their policies can go well for a minority, even if it seems like a contradiction to what I say, they can go very well for GDP in the abstract, but at the same time very badly for employment, for the type of employment, for public services, i.e. for all, or for pensions, to name some large blocks of affected items. In short, they are continuous budgets with the demands of the troika, which does not reduce them, and which continue on the wrong path, in our opinion, by not facing the fight with the impulse, for example, of well-distributed economic growth among the majority of the population. Budgets lack the essentials: they lack investments and infrastructure with economic return, not speculative ones; they lack to increase productivity with a significant increase in public investment in R & D+i; they lack to carry in parallel major political changes that affect the cost of distribution of energy, etc. Moreover, these budgets are also not sensitive to the most vulnerable groups, pensioners, unemployed, dependent people and students. That is why, and much more, Esquerra Republicana tabled an amendment in its entirety. But let us go into the matter and, in particular, into Titles IV and VIII of the general budgets, which I am talking about and which refer to pensions and social contributions. The draft General State Budgets for 2017 remains deeply inadequate in the area of benefits. For example, the planned amount for unemployment benefits falls by 7.6% from the 2016 General State Budgets, in a situation where more than 3.7 million people are unemployed. On the other hand, the budget for the promotion of integration and job stability continues to concentrate on the payment of social security contributions bonuses by recruitment, bonuses discussed, for example, in the context of the Toledo Pact and by the majority of the participants in the aforementioned Commission. At a time when pensions, among the most striking, if not scandalous, and which contrasts with the Government's euphoria for its policies, is that the deficit and exhaustion of the Reserve Fund continues. The State has therefore decided to meet the obligations of the contributory benefits through a loan to Social Security, which will have to be repaid in ten years. This seems to us to be a real scandal, as we denounced at one of the meetings of the Toledo Pact. Instead of a loan, we would have to be talking about a simple lost deep transfer, for many reasons that for lack of time I cannot deepen right now. I would also like to say that there is a historical deficit in social security, according to a study by the Workers' Commissions, which is worth more than half a billion euros, a deficit which in recent decades has served to finance, with funds from social security contributors, other contributions which have nothing to do with it with contributions from its affiliates, its contributors, items which were not social security and which have been used for other purposes. It is not a receipt that one wants to compensate the deficit to pay the pensions in the form of a loan to Social Security. The use of this formula is not admissible, because the State is obliged to finance both non-contributory and, above all, contributory benefits from the public social security system with the necessary contributions. It is therefore not understood that the money needed to fulfil the obligations arising from the rights of the beneficiaries can be instrumentalized in such a way that it becomes a liability, a debt that the social security system, the taxpayers, must reintegrate into the State. I repeat that this measure seems to us to be a scandal and represents a genuine expoliation to the members of Social Security, completely unjust and unjustifiable. The second big scandal - which has been mentioned here on several occasions and I think is going to come out more often - is that of the semi-freezing of pensions for the fifth consecutive year, because 0.25 % is a ridiculous figure and that at all reflects that the economy is going as well as they say. We use this forum to, once again, demand what we have clear in a Catalan republic; Esquerra Republicana will bet on what we are asking here today, for our amendment to Article 35, which requires the immediate repeal of the 2013 pension reform and make pensions grow at least as much as the CPI. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. Mr Del Campo Estaún has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Before I speak, I would also like to join in thanking Francisco de la Torre, chairman of the Committee on Budgets, and apart from that, we are fortunate to have him among the ranks of Citizens and, in particular, to have him sitting next to my seat is fortunate. With regard to what we are discussing here today, Title IV, Title VIII and Section 07, pensions and social contributions, I want to make a preliminary reflection, which has also been done by some of my colleagues, and it is that both in the debate on all these general state budgets and in the partial amendments, there have been political parties - the classical political parties, but also some new political parties - who have had a sterile debate, because there have been political parties whose spokesmen have simply come up here to defend a no to a budget without sitting down and negotiating with the other political groups. We have seen how some of the spokesmen of other political parties have tabled amendments, not only here in this rostrum, but also in the Committee on Budgets, which are nothing but promises that cannot be fulfilled. They knew from the outset that these amendments could not be carried out, and the only thing they achieve with this is that people are frustrated. As regards pensions, we have also seen - and not only here in the budget debate, but also in the debate on other initiatives that have been brought to this House - how some political parties have moved in the policy of 'and you more', and we continue to see it with the intervention of some political parties with the policy of repealing without proposing anything in return. If we talk about pensions, we have seen how the Socialist Party blames all the evils of our pension system on the reforms carried out by the People's Party in 2013, and surely when we see the spokesman of the People's Party he will say that all the problems of our social security system are the legacy left to us by the Socialist Party. I believe - and I have once repeated it in this rostrum - that both reforms of the pension system, the two most important reforms of 2011 and 2013, had their lights and shadows. It is clear that the Socialist Party carried out a reform, increased the retirement age, increased the period to take into account the calculation of the retirement pension, penalized the costly early retirements, but it is true - although they do not like to be told - that they froze the pensions during their term of office. And it is also true that the People's Party, in 2013, carried out necessary reforms by establishing a sustainability factor, taking into account the pensioners' life expectancy when calculating pensions, a pension revaluation rate that takes into account that the system is healthy, that there is a balance between income and expenditure and that also takes into account the number of pensioners in the system; but it is also true that the People's Party made that reform from behind to the whole House and without taking into account, in this case, the social partners, which we also believe are necessary. We believe that these positions, this 'and you plus' and this one I have to repeal one reform or another, are not the debate that we are discussing here in the budgets. That is a debate which, in spite of the Socialist Group's spokesman, must be left to the Committee on Monitoring and Evaluation of the Toledo Pact Agreements, where we must try to reach consensus. And I say this because most of the amendments that have been tabled in these budgets under this heading are related to the pension revaluation index, and the only thing they intend to do is to skip the law, skip that 2013 reform, which contains a revaluation index using the CPI as an excuse and that the pensioners have lost purchasing value. As Mrs Perea has said, we are a political party of order, and the reality tells us that since the reform the pensioners have not lost purchasing power, neither in the years 2013, 2014 and 2015, nor in the year 2016, because although in December it ended with an inflation of 1.2, the average annual inflation was 0.2 and the pensioners buy throughout the year. What we must do - that is why we support these budgets - is to ensure that budgets can pay pensions. In the Committee on Budgets we asked the Secretary of State what would happen if we did not approve these budgets and he told us that pensions could not be paid, and I will give you four details. The monthly pension roll in May 2017 has increased by 3% compared to the same month of 2016 - we could not pay the pensions -, the number of pensioners has increased by 1.8 also compared to the month of May 2016, and if we talk about retirements, the average pensions have increased by 2.03 and 1.91 if we take the pensions from the whole system, which could not be paid if we did not approve these budgets. So this is what we must ensure: that we pay this increase in average pensions, this increase in the number of pensioners, which is why we have not tabled amendments and we are not going to make promises, as other political parties do, that cannot be fulfilled. However, we have proposed that an item be approved to cover economically certain improvements that we have achieved in these General State Budgets, such as the increase in paternity leave or the increase in the flat rate for self-employed people as greater job generators. I conclude my speech with a reflection addressed to all Members of this House, and it is that if we want to have a good pension system that looks like the best pension systems in the world, such as that of some countries in our environment such as Denmark or Sweden, we do not have to invent anything because it is all done. All we have to do is see what they've done and apply the idea. The first thing countries with the best pension systems did was to carry out a consensual reform where they were present and where all political parties were in agreement, and not only that, but also the social partners were in agreement. In other words, do not use pensions as a bold weapon, as we see in this House being done, but as a genuine state policy. I believe that we have shown that we are prepared to negotiate for the interests of all Spaniards - all of them have been able to see this during the process of this budget - and we will also be willing to agree to carry out a consensual reform of the pension system. All we hope is that the other parties in the House will also be up to speed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Del Campo. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Vidal Sáez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u69	Forgive the slowness. Good afternoon. First of all, I would like to make a reference - in this case thousands of miles from here, specifically in Brazil - to thousands of workers who have been fighting a coup government for days. I want, therefore, to send you a hug, and right for right, comrades. [[Applauds]] Today you are presenting us with absolutely unreal pension budgets; indeed, extremely unfair. This executive intends to square public accounts at the expense of the loss of the purchasing power of the pensioners, of the social benefits of the public employees and of course of falsehoods. Their budgets are full of traps and traps, and even lies, such as the false forecast of income, the hidden deficit of Social Security and the make-up of the emptying of the Reserve Fund. You want to make believe that the adjustments are over and the heart of your lies in this case are pensions. Social spending is increasing, yes, but because of pensions and not because they improve, which is what I would touch today, but because new pensioners come in. The People's Social Security Party is like termites for wood, a real nightmare. Since they govern, the accumulated social security deficit has been EUR 80 billion, and these budgets are hiding a new deficit. They are inadequate and regressive budgets, they deepen the loss of purchasing power of the pensioners, they promote insecurity and they also consolidate, as I said to them, the emptying of the Reserve Fund, although you make it wonderfully well. These are the budgets that make austerity and irresponsibility structural because, by denying the necessary funding for social security, you not only push us away from spending on the eurozone average, but also push for the worsening of the deficit. They are budgets in addition to renunciation, of renouncing to address dependence, poverty, inequality. At an increase of 0,25 % it costs, frankly, to call it a revaluation. This government, by the hand of Citizens - without them it could not be - will allow pensions to grow below the CPI, thus consecrating a loss of the purchasing power of the pensioners, and you will do so together by giving your hand. If this Executive, as it says in other spaces, foresees an economic growth, please begin with a recovery of the purchasing power of pensioners in this country. Do an empathy exercise for once, just for testing. Do you know what a 0.25 is for the average? If the majority pension, the most frequent in Spain, is between 600 and 645 euros a month, it means 1.5 euros a month, that is, a real shame, ladies and gentlemen. Imagine the face left to a pensioner who makes it impossible to pay essential expenses, such as gas or electricity - expenses that, by the way, do grow above the CPI - when they find out that the letter announcing his ridiculous increase costs more than what they are going to raise at the end of the month. In your recovery budgets you have not even had the detail of improving non-contributory pensions or the SOVI. The allocation for these goes down to EUR 9.12 million, 10% less than in 2016. And in order for your ladies and gentlemen to have a reference, in 2011 this budget line was at EUR 28 billion, a veritable barbarity. Where's the recovery? Tell me exactly who is recovering in this country because it is clear that pensioners and pensioners are not. With these general budgets, you are again prioritising a drastic reduction in the public deficit over other objectives, such as job creation, and there is no need to say that it is not of quality. They are budgets without ideas, without any kind of country project and which renounce a change of productive model. How are we going to reverse the social security situation if there is no improvement in employment? How are we going to overcome the deficit if you govern against small and medium-sized enterprises? Of course, this is why they cut the trade promotion and internationalisation programmes for businesses and support for small and medium-sized enterprises by 14% and 15%, respectively. You, and in that you are democratic, rule against workers and small and medium-sized enterprises. In that you are democratic. How does this government expect to combat social security fraud if the Labour Inspectorate does not recover its own cuts, a 23% cut compared to 2009 for a department that also contributes a lot more than it costs, ladies and gentlemen? It is urgent to ensure sufficient funding for Social Security and, in this regard, our amendments also went because their precarious reforms and their complicity in not addressing the situation only widen the gap in the deficit itself. Some spokesman for the People's Group has suggested and qualified our amendments as impossible, even as partisans. Let me remind you of some of these amendments, such as those relating to the revaluation of contributory pensions, non-contributory pensions or equal and non-transferable maternity and paternity leave. I suppose you understand equality or equity as impossible and partisans, and so paints us, for example, in the games against macho violence, ladies and gentlemen. You have spent four years presenting false budgets and, of course, this year you have not been kept waiting. You have swelled the income forecasts, and this you know perfectly well, in the contributions. Only in 2016 the deviation exceeds 13.7 billion euros. His forecasts were false, and I have told him many times: in 2012, in 2013, in 2014, in 2015, also in 2016, and we are again presented with absolutely false forecasts. Magic again at the Congress of Deputies. And we don't just say it, we're not the only ones who recognize it. The Airef, the independent fiscal authority, does not allow them to be overly optimistic, and even the Banco de España questions its own forecasts, which are criminal. How did they calculate them, I wonder. It would be interesting for us to know this, because it is difficult to understand how it is possible, with a job in which full time becomes partial, the indefinite one becomes temporary, with absolutely miserable wages. How do you make your predictions? The numbers don't match at all, and you know it perfectly well, as you already knew before. They are making deliberately deficient and knowingly false budgets. What they had to do was address a tax reform. Today, part of the non-contributory pensions continue to be financed strictly by contributions, bearing in mind the excessive weight of the financing of the social security system for workers and employment. With the Reserve Fund, much more magic: where there were 70 billion now there are 15 000, but they do not want the marker to stay at zero, because it would be ugly. You don't want that headline, it would embarrass you. That's why they make a loan from the Treasury to Social Security. These budgets make the state much smaller, more unequal and more distant to the needs of most people.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u70	It has to end, Mrs. Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u71	This is what I'm staying with. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u72	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Madam Queen Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u73	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, one more year's pensions remain the main budget item, more than EUR 142 billion, 10.6% of our gross domestic product. In other words, more than EUR 40 out of EUR 100 is earmarked for the payment of pensions. They are budgets where the State contributes more than EUR 13 billion to pay the non-contributory part, these minimal supplements, a separation of the sources of funding that is key to the sustainability of the system and that has done as always the People's Party. The left always charged improper expenses to the system. I want to highlight some games that are increasing. First, the Unit Act, attention to the unit. Increase by 8 %. Dependency is very good, but social contributions from dependency caregivers must be paid. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, they left EUR 1 billion unpaid from the social contributions of the caretakers of the dependency and social contributions must be paid in order to be able to pay the pensions. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, it cannot be that you hire black workers and do not discharge them in Social Security. [[Rumors]] So you cannot pay pensions, ladies and gentlemen, because you have public offices that do not pay social contributions and have public offices that have had to resign for tax fraud because you do not pay taxes, and taxes have to be paid to be able to pay the supplements at a minimum, so that all those who do not reach the minimum pensions can have those supplements at a minimum that are already paid with taxes through the General Budgets of the State. [[Applauds]] That's the new left, that's the new caste. She remembered the deputy of Podemos of Brazil, and I say to her: remember also the Venezuelan pensioners, to whom Maduro does not pay Remember you too, who have very good relations. [[Rumors.-Laughter.-Applause.]] They've charged very well the bills there, from Venezuela. Well, tell them to pay those Venezuelans who are living here. You are talking about the deficit, the Socialist Party and the Podemos. But did you just get here? Do you not remember how the Socialist Party left this country, in ruin, on the verge of rescue, with thousands of citizens who went to unemployment every day, with social security in bankruptcy, with pensions frozen, with drawers full of bills? That is the problem of the social security deficit. There began the deficit problem, in 2010, when we again found a social security in red numbers. But don't worry about it. You said these budgets go against people. No, ladies and gentlemen. To go against people is to send three and a half million people to unemployment, as the Socialist Party did when it ruled. [[Applauds]] But don't worry, we are going to put Social Security back in surplus, as we have always done, because we are responsible and jobs are being created, because, whether you like it or not, ladies and gentlemen, more than 200 000 jobs have been created in April. We are talking about 650,000 jobs created in the past year; we are talking about the biggest increase in April in the entire historical series. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the right path: to create jobs that guarantee the sustainability of the system. What is not the right way is to send millions of Spanish citizens to unemployment, as you did. You also speak of poverty, ladies and gentlemen. According to the Banco de España, those over the age of sixty-five have increased their income and wealth by more than 11% in recent years. According to Eurostat, among those over the age of sixty-five, the poverty rate has fallen by half. Ladies and gentlemen, whenever it governs the People's Party there have been gains in purchasing power. Whenever the People's Party has ruled since 2011, there has been a gain in purchasing power: if I tell them since the revaluation rate is applied, 1905 million euros; if we talk since the start of the legislature, 1 billion euros. There have always been gains in purchasing power. When the pensioners lost purchasing power in this country it was when the left, the Socialist Party, froze the pensions. They had EUR 2 billion of loss of purchasing power with the freezing of pensions. That's the only reality, whether they like it or not. Now they're telling us about going back to the CPI, but when you rule, you don't comply with the CPI. That's what it's like to make pensioners poorer. You were talking about the Reserve Fund. The Reserve Fund is for pensioners, not the Socialist Party. What has been done has been to use it for what was created: to give it back to pensioners when they needed it most, in times of difficulty. What we will never do from the People's Party - I assure you already - is harm to pensioners, which is what the Socialist Party did. He froze our seniors' pensions when there were billions of euros in the Reserve Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, we will never do that. We will not freeze pensions and, if the Reserve Fund is to be used, it will be used to ensure that our pensioners do not lose purchasing power. And I'm going to tell you one thing. We are still waiting for you to tell us where the EUR 15 billion you had to have been in the Reserve Fund and which you have devoted to other issues. Someday they'll explain it to the pensioners, our elders and explain it to us ourselves. Don't tell me about the loan, ladies and gentlemen. When Mr. Gonzalez ruled, he had to borrow to pay the pensions. In 1996, when we arrived at the Government, we had to ask for 3 billion of the old pesetas to be able to pay the pensions, because Social Security was bankrupt. I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Of course, to give stability to the country, to create jobs and to defend our pensioners will always be the People's Party; to give instability, to create unemployment and to freeze pensions, look for you on the left and you will find the Socialist Party and Podemos. Unfortunately, the Socialist Party is becoming more and more 'podemite', as its refusal to these budgets demonstrates. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, responsibility and height of sight. We have our hand stretched out and we are waiting for you in the Toledo Pact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u74	Thank you very much, Mrs. Spain. We continue with the debate on Title V and Section 06. In defence of amendments, the Socialist Left Parliamentary Group has the floor, Mrs Capella i Farré. Title V and Section 06, Public Debt
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u75	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in Title V, as we said in our amendment to the whole, a volume of debt is included for the 2017 financial year, which has been slightly reduced by the fall in interest and thanks to the European Central Bank, but which as a whole exceeds a billion euros and which has stabilized to date around 100% of the gross domestic product, although according to the Government of the People's Party of the Spanish State, the combined indebtedness of public administrations will be 99% of GDP at the end of 2017; that is, if the forecasts incorporated in the General Budgets of the State for this year 2017 are met, which, knowing you, may or may not be fulfilled, and if not, you will make up the accounts, which you also know a little about. It is true that according to the General Budgets of the State there will be a slight decrease, which coincides with the second year of the decline of the public debt after seven years of increase by the economic crisis. Over this period of time, debt rose from 35,6 % of GDP in 2008 to a maximum of 101,2 % in the first quarter of 2016. The debt is made up of various elements: the debt arising from the bank bailout of nearly EUR 90 billion; the debt of the electricity sector of more than EUR 30 billion; the debt generated by the construction of infrastructures without order or concert, such as the AVE, of more than EUR 24 billion; or the military debt resulting from the purchase of arms, in some of these obsolete assumptions, which exceeds EUR 30 billion. It is a debt package that the State has never, at any time, allowed to be publicly audited by independent authorities in order to know the true scope of the debt and its details. Moreover, as I said earlier, fortunately and thanks to the interventions of the European Central Bank, the average rate that Spain pays for debt has fallen in the last few years. As a result, the State will spend 3,9 % less on interest, far from what it allocated to this item in 2014. That said, the figure more than doubles the EUR 16 billion that Spain paid interest at the start of the crisis in 2008. In fact, to be graphic and to be understood by everyone, of every 100 euros of expenditure of these General State Budgets for this year 2017, 9,4 euros are destined to pay the interest, I insist, the interest of the public debt. Both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy know the commitment of the Government of Catalonia and the Catalan Administration to fiscal consolidation and the importance of dealing with the debt payments of each and every public administration. That is why we do not understand why the Government of the State, the central Government, does not facilitate the conversion of short-term debt into long-term debt. For the past year and a half, the Government of Catalonia has called for the transfer of short-term loans to long-term loans. We know that both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy agree with the measure and that banking is also in agreement and that this does not entail any economic cost, since it is a mere bureaucratic simplification that would improve public accounts, those of all public administrations. We're still waiting to be authorized. In any case, the question would be when; it is a pity that the ministers are not there to ask him directly. As you all know and the ministers in the relevant branch too, in Catalonia we have made an important effort to reduce the level of indebtedness. Apart from this amendment as a whole, we are concerned about some part of the wording, such as Article 50, of this Title V of the State's General Budgets on the amount of State guarantees. You are well aware of Esquerra Republicana's concern about the transparency of asset-backed transactions, and this is not guaranteed either in Article 50 or in Article 51 of these General State Budgets, on guarantees to guarantee fixed income securities issued by asset-backed funds. In addition, we are concerned about other funds: those provided for in article 54, development cooperation funds; those provided for in article 55, water and sanitation cooperation funds; and those provided for in article 56, funds for the internationalization of enterprises. They are funds that should be used, and this is not the case, to meet, for example, the Spanish State's commitment to contribute 0.7 % before 2030 for development aid, reaching at least 0.25 % in 2017. However, the real relevance is not the funds themselves, but the policies you carry out with these funds: privatization and development of speculative pharaonic projects without criteria of economic growth, sustainable and sustainable. We want to reiterate, as we often do, that these General State Budgets are a clear example of budgets that serve to maintain a model of an expired State, which we do not share and which democratically Republican Left, such as the Government of Catalonia, defends itself from. Putting ballot boxes and voting is the democratic way to listen to citizens. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u76	Thank you very much, Mrs. Capella. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Montero Soler has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u77	How are you? Good and exciting afternoons. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the course of these days we are going to see how both the Finance Minister - a short while ago - and the various spokesmen of the People's Party are going to go up to the rostrum to advocate for the good they are doing in achieving the deficit target for this year and for the next, and they will attribute it to their good management over the last few years. However, there is one thing that much less attention is going to be paid to and with which they will try to divert ours, as if they were trilers moving a cup and a ball, which is basically the issue of deficit and public debt. They will try to focus our attention on the deficit and will not allow us to focus on the issue of debt. The important thing is that at this time, here and now, we are talking about debt and being able to transcend the walls of this Chamber and reach out to the citizens who are out there, who are going to see their rights and living conditions cut as a result of that debt. By putting numbers on the table, I will tell you that, for the time being, the financial expenditure that this year is going to be entered in section 06 of the State's General Budgets for the payment of the financial interest on the debt is EUR 32 171 million, almost 3% of the gross domestic product. This, said in this way, might seem much or little or quite the opposite, but if it is put in relative terms, one quickly understands what the precise magnitude of that amount is. We are going to spend, as far as financial expenditure is concerned, on public debt interest 10 billion more than that which is going to be spent on the payment of civil servants of the central government; I almost drown in saying so. [[Laughter and applause]] We are going to allocate to the financial expenditure of interest payments the equivalent of the spending policies of fifteen ministries; we are going to allocate both to pay interest and what will be allocated by the central administration to policies of employment promotion, to those of industry and energy, to those of infrastructure, to those of health, to those of education, to those of social services, to those of justice, to those of foreign policy, to subsidies for transport, to the financial and tax administration, to trade, to tourism and to SMEs, to culture and to access to housing. We are going to devote six times more to paying debt interest than to promoting employment, priorities clearly defined in the budgets; we are going to allocate forty times more to paying debt interest than to culture or seventy times more to paying debt interest than to access to housing, and we are going to allocate almost the same amount to paying the financial debt interest as the budget of the Andalusian Board for 2017: EUR 32 billion. So we are faced with a serious problem which, however, does not find any answer, no solution by this government, which should be leading a process of debt restructuring at European level, articulated around the European Central Bank, and which ignores that possibility of leading something in Europe other than unemployment vis-à-vis other countries that are in the same situation as us. We are not talking about all this outside of here, nor are we talking about the financial burden of debt. This Government has been unable throughout its entire mandate to reduce the burden of the financial burden of debt, the burden of what we pay in interest, which is really what stifles the public finances of this country. In 2014, 36.5 billion euros were paid in interest; in 2015, 35.490 million euros were paid in interest, and in 2016, 33.490 euros were paid in interest. We're reducing billions a year, and at that rate we're going to be paying debt to infinity and beyond. But it is not only the financial burden of debt, but above all - and that is where the Gordian knot of government fiscal and budgetary policy appears - the amount of debt. Mr Montoro, when he presented the General Budgets of the State, boasted that he had made the greatest primary fiscal effort of all OECD economies - he must be sadistic to boast of that! -: 5.3% of the change in the potential GDP balance between 2012 and 2016. And with this fiscal adjustment, the most intense of all developed economies, the result is that they have increased by thirty basis points the debt burden on GDP and we have gone from almost 70% in 2011 to 100% last April 2017. What is serious is not just everything we pay and everything we have generated from debt, but at the same time we have called on the private sector to do its homework; we have called on the private sector to control its spending, to articulate its spending and revenue strategies and to somehow manage to do that thing so ugly that it is called deleveraging, which is basically to reduce debt. While the Government of the People's Party was increasing its debt by 30 basis points of GDP, the private sector, basically households, on the one hand, and non-financial corporations, on the other, have untied, brought their debt level to the lowest level of eleven years and are at the same level as in 2004. The Government of the People's Party is calling on the private sector to do what it has not been able to do in the public sector. So stop calling on others to tighten their belts and start thinking about a strategy that necessarily has to go through something that is repeatedly told to Mr Montoro - which is now not, but I suppose he will receive it - which is essentially that the problem of debt in this country and the problem of finance in this country is an income problem that is not adequately faced, and that has consequences. When priority is given to achieving the deficit target against a policy of growth and employment, when we move away from the European average, what we find is an excessive deficit procedure from which Europe has not drawn us, because they have not been able to make enough traps, not because of the level of deficit, but because of the level of debt. While you have taken Portugal - which is doing the contrary policies that you apply and which seem to you to be at the top of heterodox - from that environment, you have kept us in the same environment as a result of us being unable to do our duties simultaneously in terms of deficit objective and debt objective.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u78	Your time is up, Mr. Montero.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u79	I'm done, Mr. President. So, Mr Montoro - or your chair - stop playing with our present and, above all, stop borrowing our sons and daughters. We'll all thank you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Montero. Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde has the floor in the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u81	Pick it up on. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. The State will devote 27% of its expenditure to debt and will do so by deepening anti-social policies that consolidate a model of growth based on precariousness and wage devaluation, as well as by promoting business competitiveness at the cost of reducing social spending. This is not due to excessive public spending, it is a direct consequence of insufficient collection capacity that it does not want to address, as it insists on an increasingly regressive tax burden in which those who have less pay more and more, which increases inequality. Those who, by agreement with the People's Party, will allow this to remain so, try to make us believe that this does not affect Basque citizenship because we have greater fiscal capacity than other territories, something that is not true; not that we have greater fiscal capacity - that we have it -, what is not true is that what is decided at the state level does not condition our taxation. Of course, corporate tax is the main route of tax avoidance for large companies taxing within the framework established by state law. Not only do they tax within the framework established by the State, but even its inspection is essentially the responsibility of the State, the latter being more important in view of the worrying quotas to which tax fraud has reached and which can hardly be faced with a decrease in the staffing of the Tax Agency. All this hinders an effective fight against fraud, including the possibility of international conventions, in which we are subject to the will of the State in this matter, which is clearly scarce. These budgets also make a clear bet on increased collection through indirect taxes, as in the case of VAT, on which we cannot decide and which only increases inequality. It must therefore be made clear that we do not have any competition over indirect taxes either. We want to make it clear that it is the policies of the PP, whose model shares the PNV - which is worth it with small touches on the current fiscal model, be it Basque or Spanish - that the real problem of Spanish citizenship, governed by the most corrupt party in Europe, supported by the PNV, will follow the same path. If there is a greater contribution in terms of quotas - since in recent times there has been so much talk about it, it must be made clear - this would have a minimal impact - that is the issue that we are dealing with and on which we are talking this afternoon - because of the current debt burden. This model that they both share means leaving the tax burden primarily on the working class and lowering the tax burden on the profits of large companies or large fortunes. This has already been expressed by the Gasteiz Parliament in large part: the agreement by which the budgets will be approved is not good for Euskal Herria or for the State. It does not provide any measures aimed at improving the quality of life of people, no measures in favour of employment or pensions or against precariousness, and it does consolidate - and quantifiable in many millions of euros - the negative consequences on each of us. Ask us for solidarity to reverse the situation, not to consolidate it. And don't get confused, the quota is no privilege, no one is going to give us anything. We could say, on the contrary, that because of the absence of a real bilaterality between the Government and the autonomous community and Nafarroa, Madrid has been in breach of the law until its own needs have led to an opaque and partisan agreement that has resulted in 16 billion less in ten years to invest, a product of the lack of economic sovereignty that we suffer, and now the return with a reduction in favour of the State by 277 million and, of course, to pay in comfortable terms. The urgency of some and the tendency of others to confuse party and country interests lead us to an agreement which in no way benefits, rather, the sovereignist aspirations and which turns its back on citizens in Euskal Herria. We understand that there is another way of doing things, a right must not be a matter of negotiation and marketing, and in the face of its non-compliance we understand that we must act with a view to the country, making use of it and, therefore, acting hand in hand and not agreeing, as has been done, not paying such a high price. Why? Because the law is being enforced, something that shouldn't be a source of negotiation. Why? Because the State undertakes to do what it has to do for competences that it has already agreed in many cases and that it has dedicated itself to not fulfilling, if we make a history of all the pacts to which the Basque right has arrived with the Spanish one and also with some other parties in the last decades and that, ultimately, they have reported more harm than benefit. In addition - I would like to insist on this - the scheme of subordination to the State is a good one, by which the State decides when and how progress is made in the implementation of the law and the commitments it has made. Therefore, neither what is achieved is so beneficial nor law enforcement should be grounds for negotiation. And that no one is mistaken in the Spanish state, the real problem of Spanish citizenship is the government that has, the policies that are made and the weight that the debt has in all of it. Eskerrik asko. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u82	Thank you very much, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia. For the Socialist Group, Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u83	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. It is a pity that Mr De la Torre is not here - he's having coffee, I've seen him come out - but it draws my attention to that fierce warrior who demonstrates and yet the skepticism I see in Mr Olano. I believe that the budget should be billed by Mr Olano, not Mr De la Torre, who believed himself to be the adalid, Don Pelayo of the 2017 budget. Well, we Socialists have given many reasons why we are not going to support these budgets, and we also criticise them routinely; they have been various, very diverse reasons. It is a budget that distorts revenue; says the Independent Tax Liability Authority: IRPF and inflated contributions. It is a budget that does not take into account such fundamental issues as a new funding system for municipalities and autonomous communities; it is a budget that again sacrifices the purchasing power of pensioners and public employees, which cuts substantially - says the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority - investments - we are from the countries of the European Union that we are making the least investment effort, we invest very little already in maintenance - and which consolidates the gradual cuts in the last six budgets in terms of social policies. Therefore, there are many reasons why we will not support these budgets. In addition, it joins another reason, which is title V and section 06, that of indebtedness. In that sense - as the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority also says - the target for 2020 of 60% of GDP in debt is not that it is unattainable, but that it is light years from what we can achieve. I insist, Airef says. Over the past six years, the Government and the People's Party have made an effort to meet unattainable deficit targets - in fact, they have never met them - at the cost of further indebtedness of public accounts; we have reached 100 per cent of gross domestic product in terms of indebtedness. In 2011, when the People's Party took over the government, public accounts accounted for 60%; in the last six years, there has been almost 40% more indebtedness. The data are very demonstrative, and that is the first question I would like the government to answer; no one will answer me because the blue armchairs are empty. The projected public debt issuance in 2017 is 230 billion, almost the same as in 2016, 13 billion euros less. This means that the interest to be paid exceeds EUR 32 billion; almost EUR 9.4 in the budget goes for the payment of interest on the public debt. The government used to have a very clear justification because it said: Greece must be rescued and public debt must be issued, banks must be healed and public debt must be issued, the FLA must be launched and public debt must be issued, the payment plan must be implemented for suppliers must be implemented and public debt must be issued. Well, now there is no longer any of these justifications, theoretically everything is done; there is no longer a payment plan for suppliers or FLA and yet we continue to issue the same public debt: EUR 230 billion. I would like to know what the justification is now, what is the reason why this country continues to be in debt at the levels that it continues to be in debt. It is a reason that is still to be known; we do not know what hides that enigma Montoro or what is the letter he has hidden to justify this issue of public debt. International and national analysts have always shown that one of the main problems of this country's economy is the excessive financial leverage that exists in the State, in families and in businesses and that an effort has to be made to de leverage. Over the past few years, in the midst of the crisis, we have not placed this priority on strengthening our economy; it was a demand from international agencies and, on the other hand, it was a realistic sense of how to strengthen the economy of this country. These are the data of that effort made in recent years, from 2011 to the present. [[Show a chart]] The latest data from the Banco de España is from March 2017. Public debt in this country has increased by EUR 385 billion, 51%. Is this unravelling? Evidently not; it is an endless excessive and progressive leverage, it seems to be. However, this is the behaviour of companies in this country, which in recent years have a lower level of indebtedness of EUR 280 billion. [[Show another chart]] This means 23.5 % less. Is this unravelling? This is really unravelling. And this effort has been done by companies in this country. Or the families, which have reduced their debt by EUR 153 billion, by 19% less debt. [[Show another chart]] This is unravelling, not what the Government of this country has done. Citizenship needs to know the effect of public debt. [[Show another chart]] Almost all of us have a mortgage for our housing, but we also have the share that belongs to each of the citizens of this country of public debt.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u84	Mr. Hurtado, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u85	I'm closing up. This per capita debt has risen from EUR 15,800 to EUR 24,256, an additional 53%; that is, citizens have an added mortgage.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u86	Your time is up, Mr. Hurtado.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u87	I'm done. And that is a consequence of this country's policy. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u88	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Paniagua Núñez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I fully understand that you are concerned about our country's public debt; I am, too, my parliamentary group is, our Government is obviously also concerned, and many analysts and the European Union itself are also concerned. But that is not justification for criticizing the People's Party or its government action; that would in such a case be a reason for making contributions, which they do not do, and there are no reasons to justify their criticism, as I will then prove to you. From here I tell you that if the People's Party continues to rule for a few years, the path of reducing our public debt on GDP, which we already started in 2015, will continue steadily and progressively. Although they did not believe us with the evolution of growth, with the reduction of the deficit, with the recovery of bank credit, with the growth of employment, with the internationalization of our companies and with the favorable evolution of domestic demand, the data have shown that we were right. Right now, the only ones who have no economic credibility are you. Ladies and gentlemen, they provide us with information on the situation of our indebtedness, but they do not tell us what we are doing wrong, much less what you would do. If you consider it a risk, provide solutions rather than criticize and describe the situation exclusively. We propose a different and creative solution, the one needed to solve that Gordian knot that Mr Montoro was talking about. Growth itself and strict expenditure control and management will provide us with the income needed to reduce the level of indebtedness. You've managed to enter a virtuous circle. Increased growth reduces public debt, allows increases in collection without changing tax rates due to higher income of agents and higher consumption, which, together with the lower burden of interest on public accounts, leaves fiscal space to further reduce debt, strengthen social spending, carry out targeted and targeted actions on the revenue side in the coming years or adopt stabilization measures, if necessary, in the face of a new crisis situation. In short, the reduction of public debt not only makes us less vulnerable in the future, but also will have immediate benefits for the economy as a whole and for citizens. It has been impossible for this Government to avoid the current debt situation. I am not going to give you the data on the origin of the debt, as they have been repeated here to the point of satiety; I personally am ashamed to repeat them again. Mr Hurtado, most of that bar you have taught us is a consequence of the socialist governments. You have raised it by 360 billion from a minimum in your government stage and with us it has grown the same, but mostly to cover the consequences of your policies. Besides, you guys raised public debt for what? Not at all, because they left us a country about to be intervened and close to bankruptcy. At least we have increased the debt, first to cover its outbursts and thus save a multitude of families, of depositors, that is, a multitude of Spaniards, avoiding the total collapse of our economy and placing Spain at the head of the growth and job creation of the developed countries, and again, as we did at the end of the 1990s, to obtain the admiration of the whole world. That's what we do, that's one of our values. He told them at first that there were no reasons to justify his criticism. On the one hand, we have analysed where it comes from and how to resolve it, and on the other hand, we will see how that debt is being managed, and here we can also be proud of our Government. The average term this year will reach 7.05 years. Last year, the average maturity of new emissions was 11.5 years. We continue to reduce the average interest rate from 4.07 with which we close 2011 to 2.69 this year; a reduction of 34%. We have managed to reduce the cost by extending the duration. Doesn't that seem to you to be a reason for a positive assessment of the work done by this Government? Our debt is of quality and there is still demand for Spanish debt on the market. Compared to the main Mediterranean countries in our environment, Italy, Portugal and Greece, we have a lower risk premium, the average duration of our portfolio is higher, our rating exceeds that of the three countries, the average interest rate of our debt is also lower and the debt on GDP is also lower. Just compare to see who did his job right. What would we have had to do if we hadn't been in debt? The PSOE left our debt above 60%, close to 70. If we had not increased the debt, how much unemployment would there be, what economic growth would we have, which financial institutions would remain alive, how many companies would have fallen? They would have had to rescue us and then what about our pensioners, our civil servants, the most disadvantaged? Furthermore, we would still be in debt because the European Union would have set up funds to maintain the system, let alone, that is, perhaps 80%, but under what conditions? Perhaps with a 20% reduction in pensions? Perhaps with a 5% reduction in public wages? Perhaps with the closure of public schools, hospitals or health centers? Or do they prefer that we should have taken the aid away from the most disadvantaged or dependent? What do you prefer? Choose or stop demagogying. That is why the reduction of the public deficit is so important, ladies and gentlemen, and why your speech in this section is so inconsistent with what you have with the rest of the sections. While here they are concerned about the increase in debt, in the remaining sections they present amendments that would increase public expenditure, i.e. the public deficit and, consequently, the debt; even many amendments that they have tabled will directly increase public debt. This is the main reason why the vast majority of its amendments cannot be accepted. It would be desirable to have a little more coherence and honesty with the Spanish when making their proposals. The indebtedness that we have, this Government has not been able to avoid; it is of good quality, it is better than that of the countries in our environment and it has helped us to meet the needs of the Spaniards, to get out of the recession and to place us at the head of the developed countries. It is helping us to grow, to recover employment and to return to pre-crisis income levels. In turn, this will help us to reduce the volume of public debt. For all this, because of the importance of the subject, because of the concern we all share, we ask you to be constructive and to put aside the demagogy. Let's get to work together and solve one of the many problems that haunt us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Paniagua. We moved on to the debate on Title VI. In defence of amendments, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u91	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled 29 amendments to this Title VI. They've survived two, which I'm going to defend, and I'm going to talk about the remaining twenty-seven. I am not going to make it clear that some of the remaining twenty-seven are a calcum, an exact copy of those that we presented in previous budgets and that were not vetoed. I will repeat this in each of the titles so that someone will give me an explanation at some point in the debate. They did not do so in the Commission, but I am sure that I will get it here in plenary. The two that have remained alive relate to the type of VAT applicable to medical equipment, apparatus and other instrumental equipment related to persons with physical, mental, intellectual, sensory and also in the field of persons with audiovisual and hearing impairments. There is one that I want to highlight and that we are trying to compromise; it is a rather peculiar situation that occurs and that affects the provision of public transport, mainly by local authorities. Two years ago, an amendment was made to article 78 of the Act, specifically paragraph 4, which has created a situation in which VAT is being claimed for subsidies that are being transferred to the companies that are providing the public transport service at the local level, and it is assumed that these subsidies are part of the taxable base. That is not the case in the rest of Europe, it had not been so in Spain and, obviously, this generates an increase in public transport service costs which, if not resolved, users will have to be affected, because most local corporations or metropolitan transport entities do not have the capacity to cope with it. This also affects other areas, such as public television, the field of culture, the field of R & D & i, but we would now focus on public transport at the municipal level to solve the issue. We hope to be able to deal in reasonable terms with this amendment, which would not benefit Catalonia alone - I am telling everyone to let them know - but would benefit all metropolitan transport entities and municipalities throughout the Spanish State. We will make every effort to see whether we are able to deal with this amendment between today and tomorrow. I ask you to support this, because it would solve a problem that has been created at the moment. On the other hand, a generous interpretation should be made of what has happened over the past two years and which has begun to generate some fiscal contingency in certain service providers, but in any case we hope that it will be resolved favourably. Beyond this amendment, which, if we are able to negotiate it, I ask all of you to support it, I also ask you to support the two surviving amendments of the screening, 4793 and 4794. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor. Title VI
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since I was the first speaker of my group in the presentation, I would like to join in congratulating the services of the House, which have been very patient with us. Title VI, tax rules of the General Budgets of the State, as you know - as you are not going to know - is another box of tailors from which the Government pulls patches to patch all those tax rules that during the year has been unable to pose in Congress as a bill and directly uses to paste them, thus validating the Bourbon motto that the effect is achieved without notice of care. As we have seen throughout the whole procedure of the presentation, you do not think of the negotiation of the General Budgets of the State as a space to analyse the interest with the constructiveness proposed to us by Mr Paniagua a moment ago, but you have gone to the point by pruning everything that was put before you, carrying with you amendments that directly affect social and economic sectors in a very direct way, twisting the ad nauseam regulation, dangerously subjecting the legislative power to the executive and, yes, ignoring what this House in plenary or in the Commission has voted on more than one occasion. In fact, we hoped that this procedure would come alive at least some important amendment, such as those proposed by us or other groups for the economics of families and small and medium-sized enterprises. You have left our proposals in the water of drunkards and only let us raise today small issues - although not less important - that we are defending. In other words, 57, on VAT for Taurus celebrations, and 58, on taxation of the transmission of titles of nobility and greatness. Believe me, I am very keen to quote the President of this House, Mr Trillo - you remember that, right? - because you have been charged with the discussion on the VAT of the consumption of intimate hygiene products, a fundamental necessity. These are encumbered items as consumer products, which means that an indispensable health item for women is kept in unfair taxation when it comes to strictly hygienic and therefore sanitary products. Let us not fail to explain that Members of Parliament of what we have been hearing in the Commission - rejected amendment, rejected amendment, rejected amendment - that is, Members of the rejected amendment - PP, Citizens, PNV, UPN - have left out of a basic need 52% of the population. The same goes for condoms or diapers, and I remind you that diapers are for babies and more and more for older people. Your low sensitivity to families will keep these products within the VAT category that you are going to grant to bull tickets. The debate on another agreed proposal between various parties and approved in the Commission has also been charged: the reduction of VAT for cinemas. This has had harmful consequences, such as the closure of cinemas and complexes and the unemployment of a multitude of creative people; it has also been harmful to production and cultural creation, and also potentially harmful to cultural plurality and access to culture by citizens. In contrast, you, the rejected Members of the House, have had the defiance of lowering VAT on Taurino celebrations. Seriously, do you think it is more important to train people in animal torture than in audiovisual creation? [[Applauds]] At the height of the insensitivity towards animals you have also charged yourself with the discussion on the Esquerra proposal that was approved last 4 October in this same plenary room: the return to the reduced rate of VAT for veterinary services, which was intended to be supported through amendments by three parliamentary groups, Podemos, PDeCAT and Esquerra. A proposal that affects almost half of Spanish families, the welfare of their pets and the health of the whole family. With your budget agreement you will do well a slogan that will portray you as a nation or as a nation of nations: In Spain it pays more to cure a dog than to see six bulls killed. [[Applauds]] Beyond the fact that it will be up to these groups to give explanations to the civil society that saw them vote in October in favour of what they deny today, I call on the sanctity of those groups that today have changed the meaning of their vote and I hope not of their opinion, because we do not intend to give up on the effort. It should be noted that other proposals from various groups, such as the VAT for funeral services or hairdressers, all of which clearly affect the economy of families, but also the repeated general interest which the minister so much likes to invoke, have been prevented from being included in the budgets. For all these reasons, the Republican Left Parliamentary Group will vote against Title VI, another example of budgets that serve to maintain a model of state that we do not share and that we democratically intend to separate from. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Garzón Espinosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. In this Title VI, the usual practice, at least in previous years, was to have the opportunity to discuss the fiscal policy of the People's Party in a much broader way than what, under the vetoes imposed on the amendments, is reflected today. We believe that the normal thing in this process of General State Budgets is to have the opportunity to criticize fiscal policy as a whole, and this has to do with the way in which revenue and expenditure are understood, how they are articulated and how it is intended to combat, as in the historical case of Spain, the deficit figure. We and the Group of the European People's Party believe that the way presented by the Group of the European People's Party is unfair and pointless, and we therefore believe that an alternative must be presented, which is what we did with many of the amendments, which increased revenue because they proposed a different fiscal policy, and which, however, have been vetoed and cannot be strictly discussed. We can talk about them, like I'm doing here, but they won't be able to vote because they've been vetoed. What is the point - I ask myself - that there can be no debate on fiscal policy or on the added or additional revenue of an alternative economic policy in a context of budgetary debate? Because then we have much smaller quantities left than we and we think is reasonable. All this comes up because the People's Party has consistently said - Mr Montoro said this afternoon - that the main objective is to reduce the deficit, and has made certain statements of optimism and propaganda about the current economic situation. However, the curious thing is that less than a week ago - I picked up what my colleague Alberto Montero was saying to finish his speech - the European Commission, which is not a suspect of leftist radicalism, was taking out of the excessive deficit procedure a country like Portugal and leaving Spain. When this kind of thing happens, you have to look at what kind of policy has been carried out. In Portugal there is a different political situation from that in Spain, and without claiming to be the panacea of all evils, things are being done in another way. Observing it as neutrally as possible, we can find some of these measures to reduce the deficit without worsening the living conditions of the population, which is its objective. The salaries cut back in 2011 were restored; the privatization of public transport was cancelled; the public control of the country's main airline, which had been privatized by the right, was restored to thirty-five hours a week for public employees; a property tax was created for luxury housing; private concerts were suspended where a public school existed; textbooks and many other measures along the same lines were free. It sounds, at least the music, to many of the measures proposed by our United Group We can in the framework of the amendments in general, many of them vetoed and many of them labeled in the Committee on Population Budgets or with other labels referring to warm countries in Latin America. When one goes to concrete reality and observes that very close countries, a brother country like Portugal, manage to reduce the deficit to better and faster than in the case of Spain, what we have is no longer propaganda, what we have is no longer a rhetorical discussion, what we have is a finding that at least - see how open I am today - there are other ways of making the policy different from that of the People's Party, which consist, more specifically in Title VI, in understanding that the deficit can be reduced without leading to a more regressive tax system, that is, a more unjust tax system. The case of Portugal illustrates that direct taxes, such as the property tax, which are the taxes on wealth or income and are therefore the most just, can be raised at the same time as indirect taxes, as in the case of Portugal the one on restoration, or in the case of the amendments that we are defending here today that of culture. Indirect taxes, including VAT, are profoundly unfair, because they have to be paid equally for those who charge astronomical amounts of money that they really do not receive any kind of income but have to consume in order to live. This is what the People's Party has not just understood. Rather, it has understood it perfectly; it lowers direct taxes, favoring with those tax gifts the richest in our country, and on the contrary, it raises indirect taxes by increasing the burden of the crisis and the maintenance of the social state on the lowest and most disadvantaged classes. This is contrary to article 31 of the Spanish Constitution, in which you often paralyze for other reasons but for these reasons you are quite often forgotten. We and we believe in our group that these amendments have the capacity to reflect that things can be done differently and that it is not a rhetorical debate, but there are real examples that show that at least what other groups like ours are saying deserves some consideration. However, we have met in this year of budget debate with which this possibility has been curtailed, it has been vetoed, so that it could only seem that there is only one way, that of the People's Party and that of Citizens, when this is radically false. What we are asking is that the Constitution be complied with and that we go to a fairer fiscal system, which means in the final analysis to recover progressivity, to recover a system in which precisely the cost of the social State falls on those who have the most capacity to maintain it, and not on a majority social class that is deeply impoverished by public cuts in health, education, dependence and all kinds of services that we benefit from thanks to the social State, and that at the same time we suffer the consequences of labour reforms, job insecurity and the precariousness of life. I believe that this is worth considering, that amendments aimed at improving the tax system are necessary and that the People's Party will do wrong in not observing the reality, because the reality is also in nearby countries which, without being the panacea, show that the People's Party is also wrong, even in the eyes of the not-so-Bolivian European Commission. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Garzón. Mrs Rivera de la Cruz has the floor on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets are already good news for the Spanish simply because they end up with years and years of indiscriminate tax increases. In fact, not only is no tax levied on this occasion, but VAT is also reduced on live shows. If we want to change our country's obsolete production model at once, perhaps the time has come to prepare a scaffolding that allows us to bet on a model based on the knowledge economy. In the coming years one of the sectors with the most potential for growth is precisely the content industry, especially in the case of Spain, which has a potential market of more than 500 million people who speak our language. That is why, thanks to Citizens, these budgets make a determined bet for creation, including, first of all, the drop in VAT that affected the entrances of artistic activities such as theatre, concerts or dance; that cultural VAT that the People's Party suddenly rose 13 points when it arrived at the government and made it the second highest in Europe. That VAT is now down to 10% thanks to a demand from citizens. This is a hand extended to the entertainment sector, which also goes through one of its best moments at a creative level; but it is also a hand extended to the public, which we really hope will fill the rooms again. Alongside this fall in VAT there is another good news for our culture: an amendment by Citizens will give a more than remarkable boost to the audiovisual industry. Thanks to an amendment proposed by my group to Article 36 of the company tax, investments in Spanish productions will be able to apply a tax deduction that will be much more competitive than those already offered in countries in our environment. There's something else that's very important. This change in the layout will allow us to define perfectly the figures of the film producer and co-producer, thus shielding the role they play and ending the legal insecurity that was driving dozens of major international investors away from our industry. The margin of discretion is over, doubts are over when it comes to investing in cinema, series or animation. The rules of the game are perfectly clear and no one will be able to change them in the middle of the game, as was happening so far. The amendments we have tabled have been welcomed by our industry, and they will be behind one sector, that of audiovisual content, which is at an excellent time. We have some of the best professionals in the world, the best natural scenarios, an industry with a lot of potential, men and women prepared to turn Spain into Europe's big dish. That is why a better legal framework was needed to further develop. This is a sector that generates quality jobs and above all young jobs. Let me read here the message from a producer whom I received on the day that this amendment was adopted in the Committee on Budgets. He said to me: The change that was introduced meant that he would stop entering the raft of the Spanish audiovisual sector that threatened to sink. I would like to thank all the groups for adopting this amendment unanimously, but let me remind you that, like all the other amendments, it will be left in the water if there is no budget. To approve the amendment unanimously while trying by all means to block the budgets, I believe that it can be described as a rather irresponsible position. There's something important I want to focus on. My fellow citizens' economic team members have been able to listen to the culture team, Félix Álvarez, Guillermo Díaz and those who speak to them over the last few weeks. I thank Toni Roldán and Luis Garicano for understanding these approaches, and Francisco de la Torre for having been able to defend them in the negotiation of budgets. [[Applauds]] It also faced a party that has traditionally failed to listen to the demands of the cultural sector, but has had to do so this time. This, ladies and gentlemen, is negotiation. Few will know what it has cost to carry out citizens' proposals on culture. These proposals would have had no opportunity to materialize if it were not for the sensitivity and future vision of our economic team, which understood that culture is a major asset. The clash of trains between those who make the numbers and those who defend the culture is over. Thanks to this today Spanish cultural entities have a new opportunity to continue to grow. Let us continue to work so that they can generate employment, wealth and opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs Rivera. Mr López Milla has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group has tabled a number of amendments to the wording of Title VI of tax rules, and has proposed a number of additional provisions which also affect those rules, so that I will refer to both of them at this time of position-setting. Firstly, by means of two amendments, one of which has been tabled with other parliamentary groups in the House, we extend the reduction of VAT to cinemas. We do not understand that the world of cinema is marginalized in the reduction of VAT, since this activity is only the diffusion of a cultural show originally performed live. The actors and actresses that appear in the films are living beings, to the same extent that they are the protagonists of a play. So the tax treatment should be, we understand, the same. On the same issue, we tabled another amendment in which we not only reduced VAT for cinemas, but proposed that such a reduction should apply to all the cultural manifestations listed in Article 20 (1), paragraph 14, of the Tax Act, which means extending it, for example, to exhibitions, zoos and fairs. It also includes services provided by interpreters, artists, directors and technicians who are natural persons, as well as film producers and organizers of theatrical and musical works. With our amendments we have also wanted to clarify that the application of reduced VAT to frames for graduated glasses, to graduated contact lenses and to the products necessary for their use, care and maintenance, has to be reproduced since 1 January 2015 and not since the entry into force of this Budget Act. In our view, the 2014 law amending the VAT Act did not introduce any relevant variation in the application of reduced VAT to graduated glass frames, and the change in the tax administration's criterion on this issue was neither argued nor justified, so that the binding consultation supporting that change in criterion should be considered null and void in relation to taxpayers' obligations. This conclusion also applies to the December 2014 consultation that a general reply on the application of the reduced rate of VAT introduced without any kind of justification that that reduced rate only applies to mounted glasses. Therefore, if it is considered necessary to introduce the amendment provided for in the draft budget law, it should be clarified that this amendment has effect since 1 January 2015, the date of entry into force of the said law of 27 November 2014, and if the Government shares this view, as appears to be the result of what is provided for in the draft law in its article 61, we do not understand that it vetoed an amendment that merely seeks to clarify the situation with the argument that we intend to lower revenues. With regard to the other amendments, I believe it is necessary to reiterate, as the Socialist Group has said in the various debates held in recent months, that in our view the virtually zero redistributive function of our tax system must be strengthened, which not only has to act with that redistributive function, but also has to be used to provide new income to correct inequalities. This requires, in our view, increasing the IRPF types. What rent? Over a hundred thousand euros. Let us put that in our amendment in order to require an effort to help those who were asked for sacrifices a few years ago and are now not participating in the recovery of GDP. To this end, we believe that the tax benefits of contributions and contributions to social welfare systems should also be limited. How? Approaching the maximum reduction further to the average reduction. The annual ceiling, which is EUR 8000 per year, exceeds by far that average, which is less than EUR 2000 per year, proving that this tax benefit is largely taken advantage of by taxpayers with high economic capacity who use social welfare systems as tax-privileged savings products. Similarly, and in the case of alternative systems to those regulated by the Law on Pension Plans and Funds, we believe that the tax treatment of these forecasting systems - usually used to benefit managers of large companies - must be equal to that of the pension plans of all workers, eliminating the minimum of EUR 100,000 per taxpayer per year from which income begins to be charged. Together with these changes in the IRPF, we believe that a minimum tax of 15% on corporate tax for large companies should also be introduced, and a transitional tax on large fortunes should ensure the taxation of those with large assets, and today they contribute little or nothing to the maintenance of public services, as they maintain their wealth in assets that are either not subject to taxation or do not generate explicit returns. The Socialist Group is proposing these measures through amendments to the budgets that remain alive, which will be voted on in the coming days. In them what we do is to propose a change in taxes, something perfectly constitutional when it is reflected in the substantive laws of those taxes, as is the case. We also propose that the Government bring to the House the necessary legislation to create new taxes. I insist that what we are proposing is not that the budget law creates new taxes, which we already know would be unconstitutional, what we are proposing is that the government within a reasonable time bring to this House for debate and voting the necessary rules, as, for example, proposed by the Minister of Finance who would do in December with environmental taxation; he said that he would bring rules in January, and in January he said that in February, and in February he said that in March and March he would no longer bring them. So what we are proposing is that, for example, in the case of environmental taxation, where a body so little Trotskyist, I believe, as the European Commission has asked Spain to introduce environmental taxation measures, in this case environmental taxation; in other, great fortunes, etc., the Government brings to this House the legislative texts necessary to implement these new taxes with the aim that it can contribute more to the least affected by the crisis, to help the most affected. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. López Milla. Mrs Madrazo Díaz has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in particular to the spokesman for Citizens, telling him that we share the importance of reducing VAT on live performances; we share much of the speech he has made in this rostrum, but, Mrs Rivera, we do not share the importance of your exclusive protection of culture, because these budgets, as we have been saying, are the result of dialogue and agreement. With regard to the amendments tabled by the Socialist Party, I must say that they are more than the same. They repeat themselves year after year, demagogy to streams, and they do not realize that Spain has changed. Spain is an advanced society that is not fooled by mermaids, where you promise paradises that eventually become real hells. You leave in evidence the most important thing, which is what your tax model is for the Spaniards, who are more taxed for families, for businesses, to finance the waste of public money that they propose to us through their amendments. And if not, I do not know if you have seen today the latest study published by the General Council of Economists, in which it is evident and evident that the autonomous communities with the most taxes are those governed precisely by the Socialist Party. Your amendments therefore have no credibility, first, for purely legal reasons, because according to our Constitution, taxes cannot be created through the General Law on General Budgets of the State; secondly, because they have governed Spain for many years and have never implemented the tax prescriptions that they now propose in their amendments; and thirdly, because they propose to introduce taxes such as that of financial transactions that you know perfectly well that they are impossible to carry out within the framework of the European Union, in which these kinds of issues must be dealt with in a coordinated and harmonised way. We know that all this is demagogic to raudales and you know it too; but you continue to propose these recipes year after year. They also plant a tax on big fortunes again. Let's see, I don't know if you've looked at the tax agency's statistics, but of the more than 19 million IRPF declarations in Spain, only 65 000 Spaniards declare income above 150 000 euros, just 0.3% of the taxpayers they declare. I don't know how they plan to raise that 25 billion tax. Perhaps it happens to you like Mr Hollande, who imposed on France a tax of these characteristics and in the end what produced it was brain drain, relocations and a null effect on tax collection. That is why, Socialists, they say one thing and do the opposite when they govern, and that discredits them in front of the Spanish and discredits these amendments that they present. I can give two very clear examples. They propose to raise the IRPF rate to the highest rents. I wonder, first, why didn't you do it when you ruled; and second, do you know that the type there is now for higher incomes is 45%, exactly the same as it was with Mr Zapatero's government? On the other hand, I would like to comment briefly on Podemos' proposals, which is not left behind either in demagogy or in demagogy, and which, I have to say, has a communist cut, no more or less. [[Rumors]] His anti-clericalism rancio translates into his claim to eliminate the assignment that the Spaniards voluntarily make in their IRPF statements to the Catholic Church. I know that the word voluntariness produces you hives, which you like more prohibition, imposition. We advocate freedom. For the freedom of choice of the Spaniards, and that is why our tax model fortunately has nothing to do with its own. We want to govern to generate wealth, employment and well-being, and thereby collect more so that we can sustain our welfare state and continue to lower taxes on businesses and families. The Government of the People's Party promoted the last parliamentary term as the biggest tax drop in democracy. Mrs. Rivera, you said we'd raised taxes. No, the People's Party pushed for the biggest drop in taxes on democracy, in IRPF and in societies, 12.3 billion euros. With our tax reduction model we have managed to leave more money in the citizens' pocket, and Spain, thanks to this tax policy, is at the head of Europe's growth and job creation, which is our absolute priority. And to corroborate these good prospects of growth of our economy we already have the data provided by the Tax Agency, which tells us that tax collection in this first quarter grows at a rate of 11%. Therefore, our tax model is to continue to generate wealth and employment so that we can continue to lower taxes. There has also been talk here of the fight against tax fraud, and in the fight against fraud the People's Party takes the gold medal! Because we've reached the best... [[Laughter]] Yeah, don't laugh, it's like that, it's the data, the best results in history, 65,300 million euros since 2012. With regard to the budget allocation of resources, the Tax Agency is experiencing a very significant increase of 10,58 % this year, with an additional EUR 100 million, in addition to remaining a priority sector in the workforce replacement rate. [[Rumors]] You cannot be more effective and efficient in using public resources than the Tax Agency, and we certainly want to congratulate you and you should join in that congratulations because you cannot do more with less. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. Wait a minute, Mrs. Madrazo. Quiet, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u103	I'm closing up. In Spain, two tax alternatives are clearly drawn. On the one hand, that of fiscal populism, in which the Socialist Party and Podemos compete, with tax increases that you quantify yourselves in more than 10 billion to fry - literally - at taxes to businesses, families and return again to the nightmare of unemployment and economic recession. The other alternative, that of the People's Party, that of the Government, our fiscal model is to continue to consolidate our recovery with more growth, more employment and more social policy for those who need it most. That is why we are voting against the amendments tabled in Title VI. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u104	Thank you very much, Mrs Madrazo. We continue with the debate on Title VII. In defence of amendments, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u105	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I see some competition between the People's Party and Citizens to see who best defends culture and the tax treatment of culture, but the people of culture know perfectly well that the People's Party and Citizens have prevented the reduction of film VAT, and that is a record. The reality is this. [[Mr. Matarí Sáez: You defend her!]] We're gonna do it, yeah, but right now it's all there is. I have also heard several times this afternoon, especially from citizens' spokespersons, about the usefulness of their efforts; the usefulness of their amendments, which they have been able to negotiate, which they have been able to approve. I have to remind citizens today about their amendments, which in Catalonia presented two, which accounted for 1.5% of the amount of all the amendments that Citizens tabled. I do not know whether they are going to be very useful in Catalonia, among other things because I remind you that these two amendments have neither dared nor been voted on, they have withdrawn them; the only two Catalonian amendments which present them withdraw them. [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] The usefulness of the amendments and of the citizens in this budget I do not know where they will be able to explain, but I assure you that they will not be able in Catalonia, because the treatment in the sections is much worse than in the budgets with an absolute majority of the People's Party. Therefore, if the influence of Citizens is reflected in the budget, I believe that all Catalans and Catalans have it very clearly in Catalonia. With regard to Title VII, of territorial entities, I will emphasize the same. We are hearing that the autonomous communities are going to be saved because this budget is going to be approved; that local corporations are going to be saved because this budget is going to be approved and this is not the reality. As many times as you say, so many times we're going to deny it. These budgets do not solve anything to the local corporations, nor do they solve absolutely nothing to the autonomous communities. The 5400 million famous euros - because we have already made them famous - are simply the application of the autonomous financing system; an autonomous financing system expired three years ago, and that over the last three budgets we have heard that its amendment will be incorporated into the next budget. Well, I don't know whether the next budget is going to be incorporated or not, but in 2017 there is not an additional euro - nor one - and the autonomous financing system has expired for three years. With regard to the local financing system I, as I see the prospects - I speak as mayor - almost dare to say: 'Santa Rita, Santa Rita, let me stay as I am', because it is going to get worse. The prospects that we have in the local corporations with the reform of the system of financing of local haciendas, of entry do not paint well. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u106	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u107	Let's leave it here and we'll see how it ends. In any case, we tabled three amendments, of which one did not go beyond the test, the 4820, an amendment which came from an entity as unsuspecting as the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, which intended to establish a special fund for the financing of municipalities with a population of no more than 20,000 inhabitants. It is an amendment to Article 101, an additional article; the same amendment that we tabled in the 2015 and 2016 budgets, and then it did exceed this screening. In any case, I do not ask you to vote in favour because we are not going to vote for it. On the other hand, I am asking for two other amendments: 4821 and 4822. Title VII Amendment No 4821 seeks to provide the Autonomous Communities with detailed information on all revisions to the Global sufficiency Fund. In the additional Article 103, our amendment 4822, what we are trying to do is to correct a situation that has occurred over the last few years where this Global sufficiency Fund was decreasing as VAT or excise tax rates increased, and automatically, as it collected more in its share of the autonomous communities, this Global sufficiency Fund was reduced. We understand that this should not be the case and that it should be applied in any case only for reductions, but not for increases. This is an amendment that we have also tabled in other budgets and we ask you again to support it, although if it is not settled in these General State Budgets, you will have the opportunity to settle it when you apply the new system of autonomous financing, which you theoretically have to come out with consensus, although we have already seen that in the committee of experts you have had a first discharge because you do not feel very useful. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u109	Very good night. Thank you very much, President. [[The lady]] With reference to Title VII, of the territorial authorities, which includes the elements of the financing of local authorities and of the autonomous communities, I think you already know our position on the failed model that you have been generating over the years, which has led to the drowning of the administrations that provide the services closest to the citizens. The municipalities and the autonomous communities have gradually seen their skills and capacity for action undermined, and they have to make cuts in basic services for citizens, due to their obvious funding needs. In the meantime, what has happened in the state? The State has continued without reducing duplication, with unnecessary ministries - it is not necessary for us to review them, know them or should know them from memory - or to carry out totally inefficient actions, with the greatest capacity to act, for example, by arbitrarily assigning a higher percentage of deficit, despite the fact that independent entities or authorities such as Airef tell them that they should do the opposite. However, since the Government of Catalonia we have continued to ask repeatedly that the deficit ceiling be different and distributed in a differentiated way, in response to the expenditure of each autonomous community or of each administration. It is an economically rational request because Catalonia needs musculature and solid fiscal bases to be able to face the challenges and needs of its citizens, and you, in this case the People's Party, arbitrarily decide how we have to be indebted, what limits and what level of credit. In fact, the Government of Catalonia's deficit reduction effort accounts for 85% of the total government deficit reduction for all Spanish administrations. It is true that Airef considers compliance with the general government deficit set at 3,1 % of GDP for 2017 to be feasible. It recognizes that it is the administrations that provide services to people in the areas of health, education, basic social services, etc. - i.e., autonomous communities and municipalities, local government - that are making most of the effort to reduce the deficit. The data from the budget execution for 2016 are more than revealing and show that one thing is the predictions made by the state government and another reality. Between 2015 and 2016 the Government of Catalonia has reduced the deficit in absolute terms by almost four million euros. This reduction represents 85 % of the total reduction experienced by all public administrations. In the same period, however, the General Administration of the State has increased the deficit by 2558 million euros, a deficit that has increased up to 7504 million euros if we add the Social Security Administration. The deficit reduction has accounted for almost EUR 4 million for the Government of Catalonia, out of a total of EUR 4552 million for the State as a whole, 85.91% of the total. It is good to repeat this and that you keep the figure, 85.91% of the total public debt. For this reason, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya is no longer due to the modification of the system of financing of the autonomous communities, this is left to you, to the People's Party, to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, so that without resorting to the Catalan excuse you see how your autonomy is clearly underfunded. This is clear if they are not able to negotiate bilaterally, as the Basque Nationalist Party, Coalition Canaria or New Canarias have done. That is why we have for a long time raised a relationship between equals. So, Vice President Junqueras last Monday at the conference that took place at the City Hall of Madrid, said: responsibility does not give us any fear, we like it so much that we want to assume everything. We are the first to say that there must be an adjustment of correspondence. One of the objectives of the Government of Catalonia is, as Vice President Junqueras also recalled, to regain access to markets like everyone else and to stop relying on the FLA. There is a broad consensus that the reputation of the institutions is crossed, that of the Government of the State - that of the Government of the State - and that of the Government of Catalonia, because there is an Administration, the Spanish one, that collects 95% of the tax effort, and another Administration, the Catalan one, that manages, and we want to manage and ensure the reputation of everyone. In conclusion, Title VI is for us - as I also said in the previous Title - an example of how they are budgets that serve to maintain a model of state - that of the Spanish State - an obsolete one that we do not share and which - as I also said earlier - democratically we want to leave. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u110	Thank you very much, honourable Member. For the Socialist Group, Mr López Milla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u111	Thank you, Madam President. The Socialist Group has tabled amendments to Title VII to require the Government to ensure that the State's contribution to local authorities for urban collective transport services remains at the same levels as it achieved in 2011, i.e. some €71 million, instead of the €51 million in this year's bill. This is, in our view, a minimal increase, since it must be borne in mind that the costs of maintaining the service have increased in recent years and that, in order to receive the subsidy, it is necessary since 2014 to comply with various environmental criteria which oblige, where appropriate, the adaptation or renewal of fleets. So, as I say, going back to the 2011 amount would be just a minimum requirement. In the view of my group, the Government should have included in this bill some measures to make restrictions on local entities more flexible, once they have all reached a very significant level of budget surplus and when it is found that even those who continue to experience deficits are generally making very significant efforts to reduce it. Thus, for example, the restrictions on the conclusion of borrowing operations by local entities that have been reducing their debt for two years, in contrast to the rest of the administrations, should have been lifted, at least partially, and that are being deprived of a very important source of investment financing in a context of very low interest rates. We also lack any measures in the draft law to make it easier for local entities to repay the outstanding balance of the 2013 liquidation. In our view, a similar procedure should be established for the negative liquidations of 2008 and 2009, extending the deadline to 240 monthly instalments, always with the idea of supporting local corporations that have made great efforts to meet the objectives of fiscal stability and public debt and are ready to continue to do so. We also understand that a golden opportunity has been lost to establish a more rational way of implementing the local entity spending rule. My group has already pointed out on other occasions that, according to what has also been demanded by the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, the one-year expenditure ceiling should be set on the basis of the expenditure forecasts in the previous year's budget and not on the basis of the expenditure that has been settled. When the initial forecast of the previous year's budget is taken as the basis for the application of the expenditure rule and the non-financial ceiling, what is actually being done is to encourage expenditure, because any local entity that has not implemented the entire budget it intended to implement will find that its expenditure ceiling is reduced for the following year. To approve the expenditure ceilings for the following financial year by applying the rule to the liquidation of the current financial year, when in October, which is the maximum date for doing so, is known only as an unreliable estimate of the closure and the data on participation in the State's revenue are not available, implies adopting such an agreement practically blindly, in addition to the fact that, as I say, it is an incentive to exhaust the entire expenditure margin provided for in the budgets. I don't want to forget how much time it takes for autonomous funding. The General Budgets of the State Bill for 2017 should have made progress, in our view, in the necessary fiscal harmonization between the autonomous communities, at least with regard to inheritance and donation tax. That is why we have tabled an amendment, which is still alive and which we will vote on tomorrow, stipulating that the Government must act on this. We hope that you will have the support of the parliamentary groups that share this position, as we have seen in the Committee on Finance recently. We must bear in mind that, by linking the transfer of inheritance and donation tax to the autonomous financing system, a minimum harmonisation of this tax is a necessary condition for any financing model to function efficiently and equitably. To the extent that this does not happen, part of the financing of public services provided by the autonomous communities is at the expense of fiscal competition between regions. So there is no doubt that the reform of the autonomous financing system should address this issue. And in order for the reform of the autonomous financing system to enter into force immediately, the Socialist Group, in agreement with the Members and Members of the Commit tee, in the Joint Group, has also proposed that a transitional autonomous financing fund be set up to ensure that the autonomous communities have the additional resources derived from the new financing model without delay, with effect from 1 January of this year, the new model is approved when it is adopted and without a transitional period being established for the application of that model by stages. In the Socialist Group, of course, we welcome the progress made by the Conference of Autonomous Presidents earlier this year, as well as the agreements reached in it. But we must also echo the discomfort caused by the agreement to revise the quota among the experts of the Technical Commission, as well as the doubts that have arisen about the commitment of the Government of Spain to the change of model. As one of the members of the Commission has already pointed out, it will be virtually impossible to design a proposal for a reform of the autonomous financing system which is satisfactory, in general terms, if the Spanish Government does not accept the need to devote more resources to financing its powers. Those resources are not in the State General Budgets Bill that we are debating this week, so we understand that our proposal to mandate the Government to provide a fund with the resources necessary to implement the new funding system makes every sense if this task is really to be successfully completed; although, of course, if it is not to be desired, we will fully understand that we are voting against this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u112	Thank you very much. Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u113	I won't intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u115	Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. With the rope around his neck; this is how the People's Party government seems to want to see the municipalities and the territorial entities of the Spanish State. These budgets suggest a decrease in local funding which is very dangerous and unfair for our municipalities, because this decrease in local funding, in particular that of large cities, contrasts with a macroeconomic scenario of the budget proposal itself, which predicts the increase in gross domestic product for 2017 by 2.5% and, at the same time, with GDP growth in 2016, which was 3.2%. Therefore, as the macroeconomic scenario improves and you sell economic recovery, the reality is that you continue to cut local funding and politically attack municipal autonomy. In relation to Title VII, territorial entities, the first thing we appreciate from United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea is the 1.6% reduction of this budget line compared to 2016. When the central administration cuts off the departure of the territorial entities, especially that of the local entities, what it is doing is also attacking the rights of the citizen through the administration closest to the citizen, but also - we are all aware - the most vulnerable administration. It is worrying to see how the 2017 Supplementary Funding Fund for 2016 is reduced to almost 0.5%, according to the yellow budget book. In figures, we went from EUR 6030 million to just over EUR 6000 for those cities that participate in the tax transfer model of the State. That is why we have tabled amendments that allow for increased funding for local authorities in the proportion to be established, the growth of the economy and tax collection, and thus prevent municipalities from having fewer State resources than the previous year. We also propose to allow the use of surplus generated by municipalities; that is, to make the use of surplus more flexible with regard to the expenditure rule, with the sole aim of ensuring better local administrations and more direct attention to citizens, through the public services that manage our municipalities. With these amendments, which seek to avoid the impact of these budgets on the local world, we want to save the municipalities of the rope that Minister Montoro has imposed on them. The main problem is that you - the people of the People's Party - have never had any respect for local autonomy, but one would suspect that the special effort you have devoted to these General State Budgets to maneuvering the municipalities has a clear political objective: to make life impossible for those mayors who today are proving that the alternative to you is possible, that the alternative to the policies of the People's Party is possible. [[Applauds]] That one can govern better, that one can govern without corruption, that one can govern at the service of the people despite all the obstacles of the governments of the People's Party and despite the asphyxiation of the local competences that the People's Party wants to impose. It seems that you do not support the acceptance on the part of the citizens of the management of the municipalities of change, and I will give you two examples that are also clearly current: the City of Madrid and the City of Barcelona, clearly valued by the barometer of the Gesop. According to this survey, most of the women in Barcelona are confident in the management of Mayor Ada Colau; 41% believe that the city has improved and will improve even further in the coming years until Colau finishes her first term and she receives the best grade a mid-term mayor has had. And in Madrid three quarters of the same goes on: 54% of the citizens support the management of the municipal government, of the Carmena government, while the management of the municipal government rises five points after eight years of continuous fall, according to the survey of satisfaction of the public services. [[Applauds]] That, gentlemen of the People's Party, is what bothers you most, and we all know it. You were annoyed by the arrival of the policy of change, the arrival of the municipalities of change in the main Spanish cities; you were annoyed by the fact that the policies of change reached the main municipalities, but you were even more annoyed by the fact that they managed our municipalities better and did so without corruption. [[Applauds]] And it is that for the municipalities we need quite the opposite of what you do: we need more skills, we need more autonomy, we need more democracy so that you can continue to live up to people's needs, because you, as central government, are not able to live up to people's needs, which is what we should all be concerned about. I'm done, gentlemen of the People's Party. Mario Benedetti said the future is not a blank page, it's a faith of mistakes. These general budgets are the minutes of their mistakes, the minutes of their policies, while the assessment made by the citizens of the mayors of change show that municipalism is our future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u116	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marí Bosó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u117	Thank you, Madam President. At the beginning of my speech you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to address Mr Bel directly - without prejudice to all of you - because, Mr Bel, I have suffered this afternoon from seeing him peregrine from his seat to the rostrum in the debate of the different sections in order to defend - with brilliance, as usual - the positions of your political group, explain to us the different amendments that have fallen in the process of presentation and the Commission, as well as to demand an explanation. I believe that in the presentation procedure and in the Commission we have given sufficient explanations. In any case, I would refer you to the debate in section 31 tomorrow or last, because all or many of these amendments are loaded against section 31. [[Mr. Bel Accensi makes negative gestures]] The argument that has always been made is very weak because it is so much like saying that they have always deceived Catalans when they wanted to budget for large-scale infrastructure in a programme that is traditionally only equipped with a figure of between 40 and 15 million euros. In any case, Your Honor, we should focus on the debate on the issue and Title VII, Territorial Entities, to talk about the financing of local authorities, autonomous communities and the Interterritorial Compensation Fund. Now Mr Mena was talking to us about different issues, and he was asking us to think about people. You have a habit of talking a lot about people, but you and your policies were not heard much when you were sending people to the queues of unemployment, you and your policies were not heard much when social inequality grew because of a severe economic crisis that caused people to lose their jobs. They didn't speak at the time, Your Honor. Speaking of the measures presented by this budget at the local level, from the People's Parliamentary Group we believe to be significant; the measures to modify the conditions of financing loans with an extension in three years from the lack of interest repayment, the measure to be able to pass short-term debt or the measure to be able to finance from the Management Fund those loans from suppliers that the local entities have agreed with private financial institutions, are important, but it is also very important the amendment introduced by the Commission at the request of the People's Group that allows the municipalities to process the projects linked to the surplus of 2016 during the years 2017 and 2018, in line with the demand and agreement reached with the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. They also know that we are in the process - and it was agreed in the National Commission of Local Administration - of revising the expenditure rule not only of our local administrations but of all public administrations, that the expert group issues a report and that it is issued by Airef, and the Government has committed itself to transposing it into law. Therefore, all this work is being done in favour of local administrations that have been the real spearhead in the recovery of our country. With regard to the system of financing autonomous communities, the 2017 budgets effectively incorporate an increase in funding of EUR 5386 million. Mr. Bel will say that this is only a consequence of the law. No, Mr. Bel. Previously, it is a consequence of economic growth; previously, it is a consequence of the collection that we have recovered because with the law, when we had a collection hole of 70 billion, what we shared was misery. [[Applauds]] It is that funding model that Mrs Capella has surprisingly said is a failed model. Welcome to the club, Mrs Capella, because we in the People's Parliamentary Group voted against this model, which you approved in the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia bilaterally with the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] In this area of financing for the autonomous communities, I was also surprised by what Mr López Milla said about fiscal harmonisation. Because, of course, you one day defend the plurinationality of cultures and the next day you come up here to defend the tax harmonization of inheritance tax specifically, which we already know what that means: from above. All Spaniards are clear that you want to harmonise the inheritance tax from above. No, Your Honor. One day you cannot be the adalid of cultural plurinationality and the next day the jacobin vein comes out. I don't think you're volatile, but you do change your position depending on what you're interested in defending at every moment, Your Honor. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] It is legitimate to defend the plurinationality of cultures, but it is appropriate, albeit timidly, to defend first the financial autonomy of our autonomous communities and the process of administrative, but also political, deconcentration of our state of autonomy, Mr López Milla. Ladies and gentlemen, a nation, a state, are first of all, it is true, its people. A nation, a State, and in particular ours, are also the complex relationships between the various levels of administration and government. In the People's Group we believe that in this area of territorial entities the complexity is the essence and simplification of things is to standardize them. Impossible planting is a chimera, ladies and gentlemen, as it is to pretend to be isolated. In the plural Spain that the People's Group defends, interdependence is wealth and interdependence forces one to agree. These are the budgets of the agreement, of the agreement they have wanted to agree on. These are the budgets of a Government that has demonstrated a capacity for dialogue, a will of understanding since the beginning of this legislature; the budgets that ensure cooperation between public administrations; and the budgets, ultimately, that ensure further progress together. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u118	Thank you very much. Finally, we move on to the debate on the additional, transitional, derogating and final provisions and annexes. In defence of amendments, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am now defending a very important amendment for my land, Asturias, and for its mining regions, a transaction on which the 5933 number opens up the possibility, which will be a reality if it is approved by you tomorrow, that in the remainder of the year the Asturians can receive from the State 21 300 000 euros to finance projects linked to mining fund agreements. The justification for the amendment is diaphanous and I read it literally: to culminate in actions supported by previous mining plans 1998-2005 and 2006-2012. Ladies and gentlemen, following the suspension of the payment of the mining funds in December 2012, a judgment of the Central Court of the Dispute-Administrative Court, the result of a judicial initiative of the Autonomous Government of Forum, ordered that the competent administrative body, which is the Joint State-Principal Commission, should meet in order to analyse the implications of the implementation of the disputed agreements, with the identification of possible non-compliances and with the ultimate aim of establishing payments. I am talking to you about a final judgment of October 2013, and I have listed a procedure that has already taken place. Only the payments remain, which opens this amendment, for the State to pay in the current year 2017 to the Asturians 21 300 000 euros that correspond to agreements of the mining funds of previous plans, leads to a path in which it is intention of Forum to continue to advance in the future. Asturian mining regions cannot afford to lose a single euro for reactivation and for future alternatives. I am talking about municipalities with the highest unemployment rate in Asturias, 25%, but with a youth unemployment rate of almost 50%. For this reason, every resource is very valuable for those dear regions that go through so many problems. At the same time, point 3 of the new additional provision envisages EUR 10 million for the promotion of support mechanisms for the reduction of environmental emissions in coal thermal power plants. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this compromise amendment, which has been distributed for the knowledge and analysis of all the parliamentary groups - none opposes its handling - would be a quantitative and qualitative step for Asturias, which is why I reiterate the request for your favourable vote, and I am grateful to those who have already anticipated the meaning of your vote: the Socialist Group, the Citizens Group, the Basque Group, the People's Group and part of the Joint Group. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Candela Serna then has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I will read a sentence to the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr De la Torre, because I do not think he has understood how the regulation works. I read: The limitation for the submission of amendments and proposals involving increased expenditure or decrease in revenue must refer to the processing of rules subsequent to and other than the State General Budgets Act, but not to the State General Budgets Act. That is what the Commission's lawyer writes. You have tried to abduct the democratic debate, to make a more glorification of the People's Party, and what you have done in the background is to reveal what you really are, according to the definition you make of liberals: liberals in the economic and authoritarian in the political, and always so. What we saw and lived last week is a further demonstration of the danger we face as a country, of the dangerous path to which they lead us. Additional, transitional, derogatory and final provisions and annexes the PC, the party of corruption, and the PT, the party of cheaters. It is yet another sign of the danger of becoming a banana republic. In view of this, the need to bring this Government to an end is confirmed. There's a lot of boots to go on. That is why the urgency of the motion of censure that we have advocated since Compromís with nails and teeth is essential if we do not want to become a Spain to the Berlusconi. Therefore, every minute that passes is a minute of oxygen for corruption and, therefore, gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we must move the record and dialogue; otherwise, we will be faced with the strategy of silence. Yesterday, in a documentary about the silence strategy, the president of the Metro Victims Association on July 3, 2006 said the most atrocious thing is when good people shut up to bad people. That's what we're playing at. The amendments we have tabled are going to try to avoid this dangerous path. We've introduced four, but I'll try three. The first one aims to enable the recovery of public services through incorporation as public workers to whom they were previously in a concessionaire. [[The lady]] The second seeks a mechanism for the fair distribution of investments made by the State, taking into account criteria of population and economic necessity, so that, for example, my province of Alicante is not marginalized. Thirdly, we call for a fundamental thing, namely that the gender perspective should be incorporated a priori into the general budgets, because it is very good to take minutes of silence, but then the amendments incorporating the necessary money should be vetoed. I'm done. The amendments we have tabled fall within the scope of an objective of Compromís, which is to prevent this government from continuing to break Spain. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u122	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u123	Thank you very much, President. Very good evening to all and all. We denounce, once again - it is not the first and I do not know why I suspect it will not be the last - a double injustice that strikes against the administration closest to the citizenry, which are, of course, the municipalities. We call the first injustice vertical injustice. I'll explain myself. While the state administration accumulates the majority of debt and deficit, more than 60%, it is to the autonomous communities and corporations to which they are subject most restrictions. Interestingly, it is these administrations that, in turn, have the most obligation to spend, especially social spending, and it is those that have the least tax capacity and, therefore, the least capacity to adjust. The second injustice, a horizontal injustice. Debt limits for the autonomous communities are not equitable and do not maintain any proportionality. In fact, there is an extremely Jacobin distribution of debt limits. No correspondence is kept with the fiscal effort developed in each territory. Nor is the relative weight of the expenditure assumed by each level of administration in the last liquidated budget years or its structural financing conditions envisaged. In fact, with the same philosophy, based on this, these budgets have also reinforced staff limitations. Thus, different administrations cannot freely decide on the most appropriate management model to provide something they know, the services they provide, their services. Thus, we can say that, once again, the Government puts the interests of large service providers ahead - always ahead - of the general interest. Ladies and gentlemen, we will also not tire of repeating that the replacement rate in the local government has led to reductions in staffing, which in some cases has reached as scandalous a figure as almost 20%, putting at risk the provision of these extremely basic and necessary public services. Similarly, when local authorities present sound public accounts, we believe that this Government, the People's Party Government, must allow the various administrations to recover the public jobs destroyed during the economic recession. I do not know if you are afraid of the objective of this amendment, which is simple, but it is not only simple, but it is logical, just and of tremendous common sense. The aim is to improve the provision of public services and simply meet social needs. Indeed, its budget is yet another sign of the paternalistic attitude of its Government towards local authorities. Acting as if they were puppets from the central administration keeps them from spending the surplus generated by doing things right, for their good management. The municipalities accumulate a structural surplus that, as a whole, exceeds 7 billion euros, in addition to the remaining treasury. If that were not enough, they also express to the autonomous communities, which is not a novelty either. In fact, not only do they express them, but they can be said to literally crush them. The increase in the collection of health VAT - by setting an example of so many - will not have an impact on an increase in the revenue of the administrations that bear the health expenditure, the autonomous communities, but will entail an increase in collection only for the State. Thus, the health services of the communities will see increased health expenditure and will not be able to compensate for this increase with the increase in public income that will result from the 10 to 21 % increase in the rate of VAT, in this case in the health sector, but this also happens in many other concepts. We therefore propose that this compensation also be made effective for something as logical, simple, fair and common sense as being able to maintain the supplies needed to ensure quality health services for the population. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u124	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a recommendation from the European Council, which has just left the factory as it says, a week ago. [[Show a document]] In paragraph 8 he spoke of public procurement and said that, while he acknowledged efforts to improve the Spanish Government's oversight of public procurement, there was still no clear and coherent framework to ensure genuine competition in procurement, that it worked efficiently and that there were ex ante and ex post controls over public procurement. This is precisely the subject of our amendment 796, the National Evaluation Office, which for us is a key element in the governance system that Europe is asking for. We have been insisting for some time on the need to create a supervisor to monitor the functioning of public procurement, which, as Europe demands, ensures that there is genuine competition and that it works efficiently. We do so in belief, in the belief that if recruitment really works with competition and efficiency, it will be all the more difficult for practices such as corruption or friendship to flourish and, in addition, we will prevent waste. This supervisor we propose must meet basic conditions. The first, of course, to oversee; it should not be a mere consultative body. The second, which is independent; its members cannot be ceased by political power. And in the future you will have to be able to issue binding rules. Well, the ONE, the National Evaluation Office that we advocate in this amendment, must depend on this supervisory body. It will be a body responsible for analysing the economic viability of investment projects, for carrying out the ex ante and ex post controls that Europe is asking for and, above all, for it to be able to progressively extend its scope, from the concessions for which this office is currently provided to all public works from a certain amount. In fact, we want it to go even further and, in addition to economic viability, to carry out analysis of social profitability, to carry out studies of socio-economic profitability. We believe that this will be a complete system of governance; in fact, if we fail to convince the Government that the National Evaluation Office is carrying out not only these studies of economic viability but also of social profitability, we will look for another body to take care of it. At the moment, we are satisfied and we appreciate the Government's willingness to accept this amendment. We are convinced that in the presentation that is now being dealt with in the Contracts Act we will get between all groups to come up with positions so that this contracting supervisor who asks us for Europe is a reality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u126	For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Mena Arca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u127	He asked the spokesman of the People's Party before, and also in very grandiose ways: Where were you when there were queues of unemployment? Where were you when unemployment policies were promoted? Mr President, I think you have understood very little; you have understood practically nothing, because we, our families and the people we represent were the ones who were in the queues of unemployment. [[Applauds]] That's why, Mr. Congressman, we're here. Mr. Congressman, you don't understand anything. We are here and we have come precisely to send the queue of unemployment to its policies, to the policy of corruption and not to the workers of the Spanish State. [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] I would like to focus on the amendments that we have tabled from the Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea to the twenty-seventh and thirty-fifth additional provisions, because it does not cease to be a twist in an ideological bet in favour of the privatization of services, a model that has already proved ineffective, more expensive and cropping stock for corruption. Inefficient because direct management makes the profits generated directly revert to the public service in question and not to fatten the coffers of certain private companies, many, curiously, in the hands of their friends. More expensive because citizens have to pay double, they pay through taxes to guarantee the right to receive this service and when they are privatized they also pay back or, to understand each other, we pay them back. And broth of cultivation for corruption; you just have to take a look to see that it is there, in private management, where many of the companies that today appear in the corrupt plots of the People's Party have been hidden. In short, this is a budget bill that identifies any possibility of rescuing public services. The combination of the two provisions has a clear objective, destroying and replacing the municipal will by imposing a concrete way of providing services that fall within the scope of municipal jurisdiction, thus vulnerating it; and a perverse effect, the impossibility of re-municipalizing them; and, as collateral damage, also the impossibility of putting an end to situations of labour law fraud by tying hands to the municipalities that have the political will to seek solutions to these problems. For this reason, and obeying the social movements and governments of the municipalities of change that have set in motion to try to stop it, we have tabled amendments that seek to continue to defend local autonomy and the effectiveness of public management as a basis for the municipalization of privatized public services. In addition, we are presenting a block of amendments designed simply to guarantee rights - which the People's Party Government does not do - such as some additional, transitional and final provisions to establish and pay the finalist subsidies for the metropolitan area of Barcelona, which accumulates debts that go to the detriment of public services to our citizens and also, for example, to establish a special funding fund for municipalities with less than 20,000 inhabitants, the implementation of a plan for the rescue of science, a plan for the location and exhumation of mass graves of Francoism, the promotion of employment implemented by the autonomous communities and the study and proposal for a timetable for a plan for the transfer of outstanding competences to the autonomous communities. It is true that many of these have fallen thanks to the new censors of the 21st century, the People's and Citizens' Party, who have applied their stubbornness to prevent some of the proposals that most impact and affect people's quality of life from being discussed today. Finally, I would also like to point out that we have tabled an amendment proposing that the Catholic Church should be self-financed and that the contribution that this church receives in terms of tax attribution through income should be definitively eliminated, in view of the fact that religious confessions should not be treated in favour of exemption from property tax. I believe that we should all agree that a confessional state, as it pretends to be ours, cannot maintain privileges for a particular religious confession to the detriment of others. With these examples of additional and transitional provisions that we have presented, from United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea we demonstrate one fundamental thing for us, that the General Budgets of the State - although Mr Montoro, now absent, does not create it - can serve to build rights, can serve to shield the welfare state and can serve to eliminate the privileges of some. Instead, the People's Party, Citizens and Minister Montoro's policies use them to the contrary; they use them to destroy rights, to undermine the welfare state and to shield the privileges of the most powerful. It is therefore becoming increasingly clear that our model of society and the model of the People's Party are clearly antagonistic models and in these budgets it is shown who have worked deeply for the elites - the People's Party and Citizens - and who have worked to improve people's lives - United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea -. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u128	For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u129	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the vast majority of the amendments that the Socialist Group has prepared for the provisions of this draft budget have been vetoed. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u130	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u131	They have been vetoed by the group that supports the Government and its budgetary partners. The first thing we must do, therefore, is denounce this artefact, anti-democratic maneuver, contrary to any minimally decent parliamentary use, with which they try to avoid the debate, even the handling, of a number of amendments aimed at improving the lives of millions of workers, unemployed and pensioners. They also do so with the absurd argument that our amendments raise increases in expenditure. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a budgetary debate! And there are increases in spending, decreases in spending; increases in income, decreases in income. [[Applauds]] This is a budgetary debate! This is a matter of discussing budgets! What are we going to increase? The temperature? The rain? Environmental pressure? Expenditure increases, expenditure decreases, income increases and income decreases in any budget debate. The reasons why you veto the amendments are not regulatory reasons, they are political. The group that supports the Government does not trust its budgetary partners, they do not trust that their fingers are left behind. And the government's budgetary partners lack courage, lack courage to vote against many of these amendments because they are amendments that improve people's lives. [[Applauds]] This is what's going on. That's why the trap, that's why the subterfuge, that's why the parliamentary mess. But we will continue to defend these amendments because they are amendments that improve people's lives and, at least, the Spanish will know them. In the field of employment and pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, in one of the countries of Europe with the highest rates of unemployment, job insecurity, increasing inequality, increasing poverty, the party supporting the Government and its budgetary partners are presenting us with a draft budget that seriously cuts the rights of workers, especially the most vulnerable, who are unemployed workers, workers who exercise their right - earned - to receive a fair public benefit. In absolute numbers, the government's cut in employment policies, active and passive, between 2011 and 2017 amounts to 16.3 billion euros. In a country with more than 4 million EPA unemployed, in a country with more than 3 million unemployed without a public benefit, a cut of more than 16.3 billion euros. And you forbid us amendments that try to improve the lives of these people a little bit. In particular, in unemployment benefits, a cut of EUR 12 billion in these years, but not because there are fewer unemployed - fortunately - but above all because there is a reduction in protection coverage for unemployed people; the percentage of protected unemployed people is reduced, from 37 % to 27 % in EPA unemployed people and from 70 % to 55 % in registered unemployed people. And there is no right, ladies and gentlemen, that with more than 3 million unemployed people, more than 1 400 000 households with all their active members unemployed, more than 700,000 families without any income, more than 48% unemployed people below the income threshold, there is no right for you to continue to cut the unemployment benefit budget! It is that they are not even going to spend on benefits what is collected in the contribution of Spanish workers in the field of unemployment. [[Applauds]] What workers pay each month for their unemployment insurance is going to reach EUR 19.5 billion this year and you are going to spend on benefits less EUR 1 billion. Are you going to save that money too? And they're asking us to vote on this? And are they asking us to nod when they veto proposals that aim to improve the lives of these more than 3 million unemployed people who do not have any kind of benefit or public aid? Shall we give them a round of applause? Ladies and gentlemen, in active policies the cut is more than EUR 2 billion between 2011 and 2016, more than 4 million unemployed, more than 2 million long-term unemployed, 46% youth unemployment, more than EUR 2 billion in budget cuts in active policies. The government maintains the 0.25 limit on the increase in benefits to be received by pensioners despite inflation, and we have tabled a number of amendments that seek to raise pensions at least 2% with a review clause, but have been vetoed by the People's and Citizens' Party. We expect minimum non-contributory pensions and SOVI to increase by at least 2.5%, but it has been vetoed by the People's and Citizens' Party. We expect that the minimum orphan's pensions and child benefits will increase by almost 40% when it comes to children under the age of eighteen, but it has been vetoed by the People's and Citizens' Party. We plan to eliminate the pharmaceutical copayment for minimum pensioners, but it has been vetoed by the People's and Citizens' Party. We also propose ladies and gentlemen, to make the field of work, the civil service, and paternity permits more flexible, allowing it to be enjoyed up to six months after birth, adoption or foster care, but it has been vetoed by the People's and Citizens' Party. We set a minimum living income for families without economic resources with a new non-contributory benefit of 80% of Iprem, which is increased by each minor or disabled dependent child, but has been vetoed by the People's Party and citizens. We also plan, ladies and gentlemen, to limit the looting of the pension reserve fund, but it has been vetoed by the People's Party and citizens. We are planning, ladies and gentlemen, specific employment plans for the autonomous communities with the highest levels of unemployment, such as Extremadura, Andalusia, Galicia, Castilla-La Mancha, Canarias, Castilla and León, municipalities with the most unemployment, but all these employment plans have been vetoed by the People's Party and citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we are even putting forward interesting amendments in some new articles that have disappeared from the agenda, perhaps because expenditure is increasing not in this case but in common sense and they will also veto it. They're going to veto you to common sense. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u132	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Píriz Maya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, as a preliminary question, and as this is my first intervention from this rostrum, with the permission of the Madam President, I would like to make two recognitions of respect: the first of them towards this rostrum for what it entails for me; the second towards a great person, deputy in the IX, X, XI and XII legislatures, who died in August last year, whom I replaced in this Parliament as deputy for Badajoz. My public recognition of respect and admiration for Don Alejandro Ramírez del Molino. [[Applauds]] A preliminary consideration: Mr. Mena, were black scholarships also in the queues of unemployment? Also in those queues of unemployment? [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the amendments received to the 2017 draft General State Budgets as regards the additional, transitional, derogation, final and annexes... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u134	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u135	... although it will take place in all those sections where the various amendments tabled have their discharge and discharge, they do provoke me and my group several reflections that I would like to share with you. On the one hand, I see that even a few months later all they know about parliamentary practice is that they vote not for those laws that are good or beneficial to our country and our citizens and only know how to set numbers and make motions. Some still do not know the difference between the General Budgets of the State, with its limits and scope, and a programme of government, and with these amendments to the additional provisions make an absolute mix, a totum revolutionutum, meaningless things, things with some meaning, things that are responsible for these General Budgets of the State and things that are not. It is such a heterogeneous mixture that it is complicated to analyze it as a whole in the time we have and my colleagues will talk about it in the different sections in more detail. These Podemos amendments range from subjects as diverse as the reduction to thirty-five hours of working time, to several consecutive ones in which one after another and from a law such as that of the General Budgets of the State try to redefine the Spanish local model in a curious exercise of ignorance or recklessness - say what they want - legal. There are amendments, such as that of the energy transition plan, for EUR 1.5 billion, which we do not yet know how to finance and, worse, what to finance, because to things, in addition to beautiful and rumbling names, you have to put content to them, and I assure you that after reading it several times I have found no meaning to the proposal. They go through all the topics in the additional provisions; they unearth the victims of Francoism, create a minimum income, transfer the management of the scholarships to the Generalitat de Catalunya or create rescue plans of the most diverse and singular. It is a mixture of everything, a mixture in which one does not know well whether he is seeing the articulation of the General Budgets of the State or seeing the catalog of Ikea, which they like so much. [[Applauds]] But within this whirlwind of ideas and colorful things, at least they are consistent in their actions. It is important to be consistent in life with what one does and says, and it is recommended that we send a good message to citizens when we do so. I refer to its amendment 2806, which proposes that the State assume the social security of non-professional caregivers of dependent persons. It is very consistent with the performance of his partner Pablo Echenique, who for more than a year kept an assistant without contract and without discharge in the Social Security regime. [[Applauds]] At least, as I say to you, they are consistent; Mr Echenique does not discharge his assistants and propose that no one do. It is an amendment to try to save your partner a penalty of EUR 25 000, so it is certainly - paraphrasing Tolkien - an amendment to dominate them all. They failed to amend the black floors and we would have closed the circle, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] With regard to the amendments to the additional provisions, the Socialist Group proposes works and infrastructures in many of the peoples of our country to make policy despite the fact that what they propose is unrealizable, although they know - because they know it, because they have ruled this country - that it is unrealizable. This technique collides with something that we all have to keep in mind, and it is respect for the citizens, getting out of here tonight and still being able to look them in the face because they have not been deceived. You with this technique generate expectations that involve deceiving and defrauding millions of citizens of small peoples who see how their hopes are frustrated simply because they were based on deception. It's something unrealizable, they've preferred to put sticks on the wheels than to tie the shoulder. His attitude reminds me of a chapter in the second season of The West Wing of the White House, in which Leo McGarry told Joshua the following story: There was a man walking down the street when he suddenly fell into a ditch. She was too deep and couldn't get out of it, so she started asking for help. A doctor came by, asked him for help, and he wrote her a prescription and threw her in the hole. A priest passed by, asked him for help, and he wrote him a prayer and threw it into the hole. A friend came by, asked him for help, and the friend threw himself in the hole. [[Rumors]] The man said to him, Are you a fool or what? Now we're both here. And he answered him, Yes, but I was here before, and I know the way out. That's the difference between you and us. I am an extremist, and I can set our example for you. I assure you that in Extremadura what President Monago has done is to throw himself into the ditch to help the region and the extremists get out of the hole in which they are sinking, allowing the last two budgets to be approved in my region. You here haven't even looked at the ditch. We've been thrown out of paper, about a thousand seven hundred, and there Spain and the Spanish drown. That's the big difference. Good night. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-05-29-CD170529.u136	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was nine and five minutes of the night.
