ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u1	The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency proposes to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in order to exclude item 27 corresponding to the urgent inquiry of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. This Presidency also proposes to the plenary that the request for an extension of the deadline for the subcommission for electoral reform set up within the Constitutional Commission for the issuance of its report until 30 June 2018 and the request for a six-month extension of the deadline for the completion of the work of the Commission of Inquiry concerning the alleged illegal financing of the People's Party be included as the last points of the Wednesday session. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted. On the other hand, I would like to inform you that today's sitting will not have any votes to coincide with the Senate plenary, so they will take place at tomorrow's sitting on Wednesday, at the end of that sitting.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u2	We now begin, ladies and gentlemen, with item 1 of the agenda concerning the consideration of the bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress amending the Civil Code, the Mortgage Act and the Civil Prosecution Act, on the legal regime for animals. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr De Barrionuevo Gener has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech on the proposal for a law amending the Civil Code, the Mortgage Act and the Civil Prosecution Act, on the legal regime for animals, allow me to greet the representatives of the Association Affinity who accompany us in the rostrum, with which we have met so many times. I would also like to thank the Parliamentary Association for the Defence of Animals for supporting our initiative and encouraging the other political groups to vote in favour of it. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 it was the People's Party that amended articles 337 and 337 bis of the Criminal Code, aggravating penalties for animal abuse and criminalizing the abandonment of domestic animals. Today we take one more step in presenting this proposal of law, with which we intend that domestic animals should cease to be considered as things in our Civil Code - cease to be considered movable property, as if they were a chair or a table - and the social reality of considering them as living beings endowed with sensitivity and, therefore, subjects of law under the protection of the laws is collected. This reform of the legal regime for animals in the Civil Code that we put forward follows the lines marked by other legal systems close to our civil codes in order to adapt them to the greater social sensitivity that exists today towards animals and, on the other hand, to recognize their quality as sensitive living beings, as set out in Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It has to be said that the first reforms of European civil codes, both German and Austrian and Swiss, used negative wording when saying that animals were not things, were not goods. In the reform that we propose we have chosen the most recent formulas that contain the French Civil Code, which was amended in 2015, and the Portuguese Civil Code, which was amended in 2017, because of its similarity to the law of the European Union, which uses a positive description of the essence of these beings, distinguishing them, on the one hand, from people and, on the other hand, from things and other forms of life, such as plants. In order to fulfil the above-mentioned purposes, the proposed law contains three articles. Article 1, amending the Civil Code, amending articles 90, 94, 333, 334, 346, 355, 357, 349, 610 and 611 thereof. Article 2 amending the Mortgage Act, in particular Article 111, to the effect that, unless expressly agreed or otherwise provided by law, mortgages may not include animals placed or intended on a farm for farming, industrial or recreational purposes. In addition, it expressly adds that there is no agreement to extend the mortgage to domestic animals. The third article, amending Law 1/2000 of 7 January, on Civil Prosecution, changes the wording of Article 605 of this text so that it collects the unembargoability of pets, all in view of the special bond of affection that binds them to the relatives with whom they live. This unembargoability, which we call for under section 605 of the Civil Prosecution Act, does not exempt the possibility of taking the fruits that these animals can obtain, such as the money that can be obtained from prizes or contests of these animals, from the sale of the offspring or from the sale of those animals. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to announce to you some of the most significant amendments, in addition to those already mentioned, which contain this proposal for a law on the amendment of the Civil Code. The inclusion of a new Article 333, paragraph 1 of which reaffirms that animals are not things but are sensitive beings, which does not imply that in certain respects the legal regime of the goods does not have the extra application, provided that they are compatible with their nature and with the provisions intended for their protection. Paragraph 2 states that the owner of an animal may enjoy and dispose of it, always respecting its quality of being endowed as sensitive, ensuring the welfare according to the characteristics of each species. This ended the sentence of 'I killed him because he was mine'. The right of use does not cover ill-treatment, nor does the right to dispose of the animal include abandonment or sacrifice, except in the cases provided for in the legal or regulatory rule. Paragraph 3 concerns the costs of curing animals injured by a third party. It says they are recoverable by their owner to the extent that they have been provided and even if they have exceeded the value of the animal. Paragraph 4 shows that the owner's relationship with some animals has important connotations for emotional and sentimental purposes. Therefore, in this section, the damage caused both to the pet and the moral damage caused to the owner or to the persons living with the animal is valued in a singular way. This implies that the animal that lives with a human being as a pet is given a value of affection greater than or additional to that of mere objects or things, but also to the rest of the domestic animals. Another new feature of this proposal is the amendment of articles 90 and 96 of the Civil Code, which regulate the fate of pets and custody arrangements in the event of marital nullity, separation and divorce, as well as the measures to be taken in respect of them, where the interests of family members and the welfare of the animal must prevail. Finally, a specific provision has been introduced in the case of animal findings, other than the finding of things provided for in article 611 of the Civil Code, which allows the right to retain an animal when suspected of being ill-treated. Ladies and gentlemen, as you will see, this is an ambitious bill that promotes the development of rules that will allow our Civil Code to be equated with the rest of the legal systems of our environment, humanizing it, and where domestic animals are given certain rights, as well as their owners acquire a number of obligations. I would like to end by thanking the groups for the sensitivity shown in relation to this initiative, in particular the Citizens Group and my friend Guillermo Díaz, and I ask for the support of your honourable Members for the consideration of this proposal for a law, without prejudice to any amendments that may be made during the course of its proceedings. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen; thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u4	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. Our Constitution, unlike the fundamental laws of other major countries, such as Germany, does not attribute animal welfare as well protected, but it is evident the spectacular social change in recent decades in relation to the treatment of animals, as well as their incorporation and integration in our environment and in family and personal life, in addition to its historical traditional use in livestock, cinegetic, sports, etc. Although there have been legal incorporations and reforms in recent years that required, limited or expanded legal and regulatory concepts and definitions with respect to animals, the reality is that variants and variables that require the adoption of legislative updates persist. For this reason, the Forum finds it opportune this proposal of the Popular Group to open a work that precises, debrides, clears and clarifies concepts as pet or pet, an issue that, as the lawyer Favières Català certainly points out in his qualified reflections as a specialist, already implies distinctions and requires definitions, because pet animals are domestic animals, but not every pet is pet. For example, it is domestic animals that exploit Asturian farmers with enormous effort, but it is obvious that a cow is not a pet, although Rosa and Pinín, there in Prao Somonte, worked to take care of theirs to the point that Leopoldo Alas 'Clarín' told us in his immortal tale written a hundred and twenty-five years ago that the Cordera - as far as it is possible to guess these things - can be said that he also wanted the twins responsible for feeding her. Ladies and gentlemen, the different variations in state and autonomous legislation, and even in municipal ordinances, call for clarity and also for a homogeneous framework that allows for progress in the protective regime of pet animals in Spain to avoid unequal legal treatment depending on the place of residence. My vote, Madam President, will be in favour of this consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u6	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of Compromís, I would like to commend the correctness and opportunity of the text that Mr De Barrionuevo brings us here, and by extension the People's Parliamentary Group, which is a very interesting approach so that once and for all we can proceed to regard animals as what they are, sentient beings. We understand that in this proposal for a law, moreover, an important side effect is achieved which is, at least sectorally, to modernise the content of our old Civil Code on which - I take advantage to make a statement - we should undertake a thorough reform at some point, although we see that at least now, in this matter, you propose to introduce some very interesting modifications. I would like to point out in particular the situation in which pet animals are left in the event of a family crisis, the unembargoability of such animals and also the regime laid down with regard to the appropriation of their fruits, on which I have already indicated that, at the appropriate time, Compromis may submit an amendment to this effect. As you indicate in your proposal, you are aware that this matter also affects other sectors of the legislation because it is a very cross-cutting matter, such as the polyhedral reality that is being regulated, and therefore there is a great deal of regulatory need, especially of an administrative nature. Therefore, I would like to point out that we in this House would like to see proposals concerning the need to go beyond the framework of the 2007 Act on the conditions of transport, experimentation and slaughter of animals, not just those of company. We would also like to see the question of the intervention of animals in public celebrations and shows, especially in those involving torture or death for the animal, addressed. I think this is a time when we should address that debate. In any case, this initiative is welcome and I announce to you our vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u8	Thank you very much. Mr Miquel and Valenti have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u9	Thank you, President. Firstly, let me take this opportunity to thank the Parliamentary Association for the Defence of Animals for their work and their work always in defense of animals, of all animals. I am already telling you that we are going to vote in favour of this initiative because we believe, and have always defended it, that an advanced society protects its animals and protects its loved ones. We will also vote in favour because the Civil Code of Catalonia provides for the classification of sentient animals since 2008 and we have a specific animal protection law that considers them, as I said, sentient beings. We are going to vote in favour because we believe that this is an interesting first step but, as I say, it is a first step. When you read the text that you present, there is some scare and some disgust because, of course, you read: the right to dispose of an animal does not include the right to abandon or sacrifice. So far, well, but then they add: except in the cases set out in the legal or regulatory rules. So, do we think animals are sentient beings or just sometimes? Do we think he feels a dog but he doesn't feel a bull or do we think they all feel? I say this because if we want to protect animals, which we consider to be sentient beings, we will have to consider all sentient beings and not just those who allow us to continue to win votes in certain regions for a strictly cultural issue that will have to be addressed someday. We are going to vote in favour because we believe that this is undoubtedly an interesting first step, but we urge you to reflect on it, which will lead you to draft a more ambitious law that will truly protect all animals and all sentient beings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u10	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u11	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to join in congratulating and welcoming the associations that are with us today. With regard to the proposal submitted to us by the People's Parliamentary Group to amend the Civil Code, the Mortgage Act and the Civil Procedure Act in order to incorporate in these legal regulations a new notion of animals that consider them as living beings with sensitivity or, more precisely, as sentient beings, with complex physical and psychological sensations, with the ability, especially company animals, to develop recognizable affections towards the human environment in which they live and grow. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this year in this House, we unanimously adopted a GNP in the sense that we are now moving the proposal that is being put forward for consideration, which is already progressing with our support. Thus, with the legal reforms proposed in the state legal system in civil and property matters, a conception of animals is incorporated in line with what establishes science as sentient beings, consistent with the existing social sensitivity on the protection of animals, in accordance with the legal system of the Union, with that of the most advanced countries of our environment and with that of some autonomous communities, particularly Catalan, pioneer in this new animalistic sensitivity. It is also consistent with the line taken in the Criminal Code in 2015, in its amended article 357, and with the same law on the protection of animals at the state level. Finally, it is also congruent with the mutual affective bonds that humans, especially those most in need of companionship, such as the disabled, people living alone, the sick, children, and so on. The reforms proposed in the Civil Code, the Mortgage Law and the Criminal Prosecution Law revolve around the idea-force contained in the non-law proposal that, as I recalled, we approved in this Congress at the end of February this year; the idea that animals are living beings with sensitivity and that those of company are, moreover, a special type of those because of the special bond of affection that binds them to the family with which they live, so it is not their embargo. Now, with the proposed law, we are moving forward and developing what was agreed in this House in February with regard to pets, adding that mortgage agreements do not belong to them and establishing rules regarding couple crises when a pet lives with it, taking care of their well-being and the interests of family members. For its part, with regard to all animals, a new article 333 containing the idea-force that animals are sensitive living beings is introduced into the Civil Code as a key to the vault, adding the consequence that only the legal regime of property will apply to them to the extent that it is compatible with its nature and with the provisions in force relating to its protection. For this reason, the owner's powers of use, enjoyment and disposition are modified in the light of the same nature of living beings. Other concepts, such as occupation or liability for damages - also establishing morals in the case of a pet - are also adapted in accordance with the same condition, fruits, etc. Other laws, such as mortgage, are also being adapted to this deserved nature. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have already made at the beginning of our speech, the Basque Parliamentary Group will support the initiative, because, as has already been said in this House, the capacity to understand the suffering of other living beings derives from the moral obligation to avoid it and much less to protect it in figures of cultural or artistic heritage. We will support this initiative, without prejudice to the fact that, in the course of amendments, we will introduce those which we consider appropriate, both from a material and a competitive point of view. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen; thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u12	Thank you very much, Your Honor. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. With your permission, I will speak from the seat just to say that our group cannot oppose the admission to the procedure of the proposed law that is presented to us, with the prior consideration of the non-jurisdiction of the Civil Code that is intended to reform the Principality of Catalonia. Catalans do things and for Catalan legislation animals are not things, since the Catalan Civil Code, in its book V, already considers that animals are not things since Law 5/2006. We accept the presumption of goodwill of the proposer, even though a first reading of the proposal shows some serious deficiencies, terminological and conceptual gaps; for example, regarding the different etological response that certain species may have when subjected to separation, or the terrible confusions between sensitive and sentient that have already been highlighted, or regarding the terminology of wild animals and wild animals. We hope that they will be reflected with the same kindness that has been shown in this debate and corrected during the period of amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u14	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u15	Thank you, President. First of all, I want to thank Avelino de Barrionuevo for his words and say that a good Member brings a good initiative, and he knows that I am glad that he is the one who is handling this matter. Last February, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group brought this proposal here, which came in as a Citizens' proposal and came out as a proposal from all the groups in this House. But it is not only an intention of the different political groups but, along with that proposal, we delivered almost 250 000 signatures at that time calling for these changes to the Civil Code and other laws. Today, the collection of signatures organized by the Observatory for Justice and Animal Defence has more than 350 000 signatories. We have already talked at the moment about the consequences of this change and these are the reasons why in Citizens we promote this reform. One, it is not admissible that, in the event of divorce, the pet adds up like the TV or the fridge; this reform reverses this situation. Two, it is also not acceptable that, in the event of an embargo, a dog be taken to a shelter, separated from its owners, where it cannot be adopted since it is in judicial custody. Three, there are cases like the one reported by the Affinity Foundation of a traffic accident in which emergency services take the wounded and the keys, the backpack and Max remain in the car, which is a dog that will be injured and scared but that remains in the car because, in the eyes of the law, it is one more thing. It is very important that the consideration of animals will remain in our civil norm and we ask it from Citizens in February. Animals are living beings with sensitivity. This recognition will inform our entire legal system. It's a lot more important than it looks a priori. There are other cases where legislation is insufficient. A few weeks ago, we all saw astonishments as some guys cornered a wild boar in the European Peaks. Seven men put the animal against a cliff, which hung on with the hooves; they punctured it with sticks until it fell off; it was convulsing and agonizing among the rocks. Do you know what punishment the Penal Code provides for such an action? None. Wild animals are not protected from the cruelty of sociopaths who enjoy the pain and suffering of another living being. But there are cases where the law does collect a criminal typology for conduct of this nature, I will tell you. Two weeks ago, the president of an alleged protector in Torremolinos, Malaga, entered prison for exterminating more than 2,000 animals. The following data were derived from the investigation carried out by Seprona: first, that they administered insufficient doses of euthanasia to the animals, that they were dying for hours and that the howlings and mutilations were heard by all the neighbors of the area, in fact they were the ones who denounced the matter. Second, other times they were put in the freezer alive still since the euthanasia had been insufficient. Third, there were extermination days that lasted hours and were all suspected: puppies, healthy dogs, cat layers, dying and being frozen in full agony due to insufficient euthanasia. [[Show a photo]] Here I show you one of the photos that Seprona took from that investigation. The number of animals exterminated gave us for a hundred photos like this, in Spain in the 21st century. Well, do you know what conviction the owner of this protector has received? Three years and nine months. But do you know that two years and nine months were due to documentary falsity and that only twelve months are related to these facts? What is more, does it seem normal for our Penal Code to condemn with the same range of penalties the theft of a portfolio as the extermination of thousands of animals? Well, that's what it's like at the moment. The judge and the prosecutor - in the sentence and in the prosecutor's reports - have asked for the penalties to be lifted; we ask this before the summer in the Committee on the Environment. [[Applauds]] We have another issue ahead: abandonment, as 140 000 animals are abandoned every year in Spain. A shameful figure; you know that animals give everything for their owners, everything. We have the case a few months ago from Polo, a dog that in Baltimore covered with his body an eight-month-old baby during a fire. The animal's body protected the baby long enough for firefighters to arrive and be able to rescue him at his home. The animal died. The most curious thing is that the animal had an open window through which it could have been perfectly saved and preferred to stay with the baby, who is fortunately living today. Well, there are people who leave Polo on the road, and those people deserve our contempt and punishment. In this regard I would like to point out to you that Christmas is coming, dates when gifts are made, bear in mind that having an animal is a responsibility, that an animal is not a toy; fashions bring nothing good in this matter. In 2005 there was a very serious problem with all children in the UK - for example in Europe, where these problems also occur - who wanted owls because Harry Potter communicates through them. The owl is a boy who lives about 30 years and there were lots of owl abandonments, which were dying in the streets and in the small woods of the United Kingdom. Good thing Rowling didn't want Hogwarts' magicians to communicate with messenger scorpions. [[Applauds]] For the welfare of animals and to avoid their abandonment we have made more proposals. Apart from the fact that animals cease to be considered as things, apart from raising the penalties for the case of ill-treatment or that there are penalties in cases that are not conceived today, we have proposed that no animals should be displayed in the windows, that no prize or reward should be given, that sterilization campaigns should be carried out, that policies should go to zero sacrifice; we want a record of offenders, that people like this owner of the protector of Torremolinos can never approach an animal again in their lives. [[Applauds]] I'm finishing up, President. We are already predicting a crucial legislature in this area; more initiatives will come. By voting in favour of this adoption today, we will take an important step towards a better country. We all recognize the good in animals, the nobility and loyalty that they profess to us. I don't know about you, but if there's no dogs in the sky, I want to go where they are when I die. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u16	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to join in thanking and welcoming Affinity and the animal rights organisations that are here today with us and also the Parliamentary Animal Defence Association for the intense and interesting work they do. In addition, I would like to say that this amendment of Spanish legislation on the issue before us today, which is that animals cease to be things to become recognized as sentient beings, is endorsed by tens of thousands of civil society signatures. A campaign of these organizations is the one before and behind this proposal that we are discussing today. In this sense, I am not surprised, at least, that this proposal comes from the hands of the People's Party, which so good parliamentary moments have given us when it defended, for example, on this very stand the need to maintain the legality of the amputation of the ass of dogs with that exhibition of the deputy who made the defense on the whip effect that I have so many times remembered, every time I see my dog leading the ass. I'm still waiting to understand what the danger of the whip effect is. In any case, it is a pleasant surprise for the People's Party to come to the side of defending animal rights. On the other hand, if this proposal had come from some opposition party, it would probably have been blocked in the Bureau because of some budgetary excuse, as has already happened with 43 different legislative proposals that are blocked and that do not reach the plenary. With this change the animals will cease to be things to become recognized as sentient beings and with this the Spanish legislation is brought into line with contemporary society and the recognition, affection and respect that these living beings with whom we share life deserve. We therefore welcome this proposal to bring our legal system into line with the constitutional principle established since 2009 in Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which recognises the legal status of animals as sentient or sensitive beings. Unfortunately, once again Spain is late; we are late. This legal anachronism has already been reformed in other civil codes. The case of Catalonia has been mentioned, which as early as 2006 made this reform and expressly acknowledged that animals are not things, as has also been recognized by the French, Austrian, Swiss or German civil code, which have carried out the relevant reforms to change the legal status of animals: from things to living beings with sensitivity. Our Civil Code of 1889, received from Napoleonic codification, continued to petrify and maintain the legal status of animals as things This vestige of the past clashed with the mandate introduced by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the legal advances in animal protection of the rest of our legislation. With these limbs, the Civil Code was not able to give an adequate response to the many current conflicts arising from coexistence between people and animals. There are practical cases where the obsolescence of the current legal system is visible; for example, the difficulty of persecution in cases of abandonment. It has already been mentioned that we enter the time of Christmas, when in an irresponsible way animals are often gifted that are immediately abandoned. I think it is important to make a new call for rationality and responsibility because animals are not anything in that, and also to invite adoption in front of the purchase. Another issue is the multiple conflicts that arise between the couples who are separated by the possession of the pet and the need to establish guarding shifts according to the needs of the animal; the difficulties with the contract of adoption of a pet that is adopted in a shelter, shelter or protector, or the problems that arise from the sale of animals when they then have diseases and the commercial practice is to change it, as if it were an object rather than a living being that must be cured, and so on. In view of this, we certainly welcome this progress and hope that it will not remain on this issue. It is necessary to move forward with a new reform of the Penal Code in line with the new good to protect, the life and dignity of animals, as well as the adoption of a state animal protection law and the launch of the non-law proposal accepted in this House for the lowering of veterinary VAT, which would undoubtedly make the premise of animal welfare more real. I cannot fail to mention, as the People's Party seems to be approaching animal defenders, some changes that the Executive could make. They are not particularly radical changes, but they would be significant and would allow us to take seriously their sudden interest in the defense of animals. I could mention many, but I will only say some, issues like these that I am going to propose that would bring our country closer to an environment in which animal welfare would be better safeguarded. For example, eliminate the declaration of good of cultural interest from the bloodiest bull shows, such as the bull of Coria and others; remove subsidies for shows in which animals are abused and killed; avoid the broadcast on public television of blood shows with animals; prevent access to these shows by minors or stop the importation of puppies from Eastern European countries of dubious legality. I also invite you to avoid resorting to the Constitutional Court all those autonomous initiatives that curiously intend to advance in the autonomy in the defense of the rights of the animals, being the last recourse the one presented against the Balearic law in the matter of taurino festivities. [[Applauds]] Finally, we believe that a basic animal welfare law is needed in our country. That's where you have to move. Let me make one last comment on the amendment of the Mortgage Law. We absolutely share this proposed amendment, but we also believe that we need to reflect on the need to amend the law in order to stop the evictions, which affect many people, once and for all in our country. It is a matter of concern to us and we hope that you will also be concerned. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u18	Thank you very much. Mr Antón Cacho has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Parliamentary Group presents to us for consideration a proposal for a law to amend the legal regime for animals in the Civil Code, in the Mortgage Act and in the Civil Prosecution Act. This issue was discussed in this House in February on the occasion of a non-legislative proposal that was adopted with a compromise signed by all parliamentary groups. The Socialist Group hoped that the Government itself would have submitted a draft law in September with these amendments, which would have allowed us to move forward with its adoption and to be working on possible amendments, such as those already proposed by the Parliamentary Association for the Defence of Animals, which I would like to thank for its work in the search for parliamentary consensus on these issues. The People's Parliamentary Group has every right - I would miss more - to make proposals for legislation, but in this case I suspect that it has weighed more heavily the idea of spending its quota than any other finalist object of it. On the subject, and as reflected in the February debate, the PSOE fully agrees with the substance of this proposal. Our legislation has not adapted to the social reality that animals currently occupy, it continues to treat them as moving things and generating unnecessary suffering in property conflicts. It is a priority to adapt our legislation by recognizing animals as sentient and sensitive, as reflected in the Treaty on European Union, many of the laws of neighbouring countries and even our own autonomous communities. In addition, this legislative amendment has been demanded and endorsed by society. In fact, as already indicated here, the Observatory for Justice and Animal Defence has already collected more than 350 000 signatures requesting these changes. Today's society identifies animals as living beings that deserve respect and recognition, with whom we live and share our spaces. In fact, 40% of households own at least one of Spain's 20 million pets. To give us an idea of the importance of the role of pets, in a report published in the newspaper El Mundo this weekend entitled 'The humanization of pets' it comes to say that each family spends 1200 euros a year in keeping an animal at home, becoming considered as a healthy habit to have a pet at home. Between this humanization by the owners and the cosification of pets in our legislation there is a long way to go that goes beyond the modification and adaptation of these three laws that we bring here today, although at first we consider them positive. As the Socialist Party states in its electoral programme, we believe that this Parliament must adopt as soon as possible a framework law on animal welfare in order to ensure the effective protection and defence of animals, a law in accordance with Community and international legislation and in coordination with the autonomous communities, respecting, of course, the exercise of their powers. Because in addition to recognition, animals need protection. The amendment to the Criminal Code has failed to eradicate ill-treatment, unjustified deaths and abandonment of pets. It is usual, as has already been indicated here, to publish news that shrinks everyone's heart and makes us doubt the humanity of some individuals. In our view, there are three priority issues to be developed in this framework law. The first would be the creation of a national data bank of owners in order to avoid the acquisition of animals by sanctioned persons and abandonment in neighbouring communities. The second would be an awareness-raising and awareness-raising plan because, beyond seeking exemplary sanctions, it would be preferable to avoid the capricious and compulsive acquisition of pets that eventually become a family burden. The third would be the recognition and regulation of animal protectors and shelters. Their work is essential to achieve the great goal of not sacrificing any animals and seeking a second chance for abandoned animals. From here I would like to thank on behalf of my group for the great work of the volunteers and the volunteers of the protectors, who have been fighting for animal rights for decades. [[Applauds]] As a society we have a huge challenge ahead of the pets who pass, on the one hand, by eradicating any kind of abuse and, on the other hand, by incorporating the presence of these to our day-to-day in a civic and respectful way with the rest of the neighbors. I hope and hope that this future framework law will be adopted as soon as possible and will help us to achieve these objectives. In the meantime, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will support this bill with the intention of considering some constructive contribution during the period of amendments. In conclusion, a series of data was cited in the report mentioned earlier. It was said that one in four people interviewed had planned to give a dog or a cat this Christmas. However, another fact was that 80% of Spaniards do not consider the gift of a pet to be appropriate. Faced with this data and taking into account the time that comes upon us, Christmas, I would like these people who plan to make this gift to reflect first, ask and find out if the person who is going to receive this gift is really prepared and wants to assume the responsibility of keeping a pet and, finally, if they decide to make that gift, to pass through a protector or a shelter and give a new opportunity to an animal that has suffered, of course it will go much better than in a shelter. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u20	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America may in common may in Marea, on the amendment of criteria for the application of the [[ORGANISATION]] [[File number 122/000132]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u21	We continue with the item on the agenda for the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the modification of the criteria for the application of the expenditure rule, of an organic nature. Mr Iglesias Turrion has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens see us debating many things in this Congress, discussing different issues, ideological issues, issues of nuances, and sometimes it is difficult to distinguish issues that are far-reaching from those that do not. For example, sometimes citizens see us discussing a GNP - a non-law proposal - and that sometimes generates enormous expectations for people, but in practice the result of a non-law proposal can be none, because the Government has no obligation in practice to carry out the content of a non-law proposal. In fact, it could be said that our political system is designed to establish a pre-eminence of the Government with respect to the legislative power. It is curious because ours is not a presidential political system; the President of the Government is not elected by the citizens, it is chosen by the only seat of popular sovereignty, which is Congress. One of the greatest expressions of the Government's ability to stand permanently above the legislative power, above the expression of the will of the people, is the prerogative of the veto, which has become the great prerogative of the Government in this legislature. Over the past year, the Government of the People's Party has vetoed forty proposals for legislation. In the past year, as many legislative proposals have been vetoed as in the last 40 years of democracy. It is, of course, a problem of our Government with Parliament and a problem of our Government and our political system with democracy that is trying to subvert, even if it is sometimes legal, the only popular will of our country, which is represented in this House. There are times, however, when Parliament is crucial, when Parliament is very important: when the investiture of a President of the Government has to be approved, when the approval of the general budgets has to be produced, or when a motion of censure has to be made. These are times when the Government has to negotiate with representatives of popular sovereignty, when representatives of popular sovereignty can stand up to the Government. There are also enormously exceptional times when this House, the Congress of Deputies, can give an order to the Government in the form of a law that even goes in a direction different from the will of the Government itself. Then there is something exceptional, unusual, and it is that the seat of popular sovereignty tells the Government what to do even if the Government does not want to, because the seat of popular sovereignty is not in the Moncloa, it is in the Congress of Deputies. Today, despite the absence of the Government, which is in the Senate, we are experiencing one of those exceptional moments in which this House can give an order to the Government, and also on a matter of state, precisely because it affects nothing more and nothing less than the quality of our welfare state. Today we are discussing a proposal for a law - this is going to become law, unlike non-law proposals - on the spending rule, and if we approve it - and it seems that we are going to approve it - that will be an order to the government. We have a historic opportunity to change the spending rule. And why is this so important? Let me make a quick review of what began to happen in this country and in many European countries in 2007: there was a huge economic crisis that called into question the European social model, based on neoliberal policies, which resulted in the suffering of many of our compatriots, the impoverishment of the popular sectors, the loss of expectations of the middle sectors, evictions, unemployment, poverty and migration. And the European institutions said that two things had to be done: the first, social cuts and the second, prioritising the payment of debt over the payment of loans to make social policies. And they forced our country to do nothing less than reform the Constitution. That reform of the Constitution which was so difficult to do, that Constitution which was so difficult to modify suddenly in the summer by an instruction of the European Central Bank, the Socialist Party and the People's Party agree to reform article 135 of the Constitution, which to a large extent called into question article 1.1 of the Constitution itself, which says that ours is a social state. [[Applauds]] Today we can help to review and resolve that reform of the Constitution of infamous memory. The Organic Law 2/2012, of 27 April, on budgetary stability and financial sustainability, is simply the development of article 135 of the Constitution and basically establishes budgetary stability, that is, a maximum principle of the economic and social policy of all public administrations in Spain; of all, of the municipalities, of the autonomous communities and also of the Government of the State. But it is a rule that has an enormously dangerous element for democracy and for the Constitution itself because it attacks the autonomy of local authorities, of the municipalities, by posing something as strange as if a municipality has remnant in its treasury, if it has saved, if it has surplus that municipality cannot use the money saved to make social policies proper to its competences. A few questions about that. Does that make sense? I do not think anyone understands this; nobody in Spain understands that a well-managed city council, with sound public accounts, with a reasonable level of indebtedness and paying its suppliers within the time limits required by law, cannot spend the money it saves on public services. However, you have to give the money to Mr. Montoro's ministry so that Mr. Montoro will settle his accounts. Secondly, does the ban on structural deficits apply to all administrations? No, it is systematically breached by the Central Administration governed by the People's Party. Mr Montoro has failed every and every one of the years in which he has governed his own spending rule that forces others to comply. I mean, you have made a law that applies to others but does not apply to you. Once Mr Rajoy told me from this rostrum a very cruel Castilian saying that in this case it can be applied: Tips I sell that I do not have. [[Applauds]] Third question. Does the Government force all administrations to comply with this rule of expenditure? No, it does not force all municipalities to comply with this rule of spending, but only the municipalities that want it. I'll give you two examples. The City Council of Madrid does force it to comply with this law, which the City Council of Madrid complies with, but still intervenes. The City Council of Madrid has managed to have a surplus at the same time that it has already reduced by 40% the debt left by the Government of the People's Party, increasing the investment effort by 102% and social investment by 74%. However, the City of Jaén, which systematically fails to comply with the same rule of spending and which is the city of Spain that has the most debt per capita, is not intervened. And to the shame of the Madridns it turns out that in the intervention on the City Council of Madrid places in command of it the number two of Mr Montoro, a José Enrique Fernández de Moya, at the time exalcalde Jaén, municipality that he left with a hole of 550 million euros. [[Applauds]] This is what the People's Party does with the spending rule. Some very simple conclusions can be drawn from all of this. The first is that the economic policies of the People's Party are a failure not because they are right-wing, but basically because they are inefficient and because they fail to comply with their own rules. You use the spending rule not to apply it, but to get your hands on the municipalities that are effective. Secondly, you do not care about the rule of spending as such, because you systematically fail to comply with it, you do care to have an instrument to attack the municipalities that show that you can rule better than you. I'll give you some data only from the City Hall of Madrid. Look, Gallardón and Botella left the largest municipal debt in Spain; however, in two years the Madrid City Council reduces the debt by 2 billion euros, increases social spending by 26% and eliminates the co-payment imposed by the People's Party for home help and teleassistance service to 40,000 low-income people. I give you very specific data on what could be done with 1 billion surplus generated by the city saving: forty children's schools could be built; thirty older centres could be built; three hundred green buses could be bought; five hundred social rental houses could be purchased; five Gran Vias could be pedestrianized; more than 200 kilometres of lane-bikes could be built; more than fifty bicycle stations could be created; all municipal buildings could be recovered and accessible; or the five-street pavement of Madrid could be repaired. But no, we must give the EUR 1 billion saved by the administration of all the Madriders to Mr Montoro, since he does not have the accounts. [[Applauds]] The same could be said if we see the results of management of municipalities such as those of Cádiz, Barcelona, Valencia, Zaragoza, Coruña. If we contrast this data with the official data of the Government of Spain, what we see is that in the last seven years the Government of the PP has cut housing investment by 70%. Since 2009, the National Science System has lost 20 billion in public money. The Government will reduce the proportion of gross domestic product destined for health, education and social protection for the third consecutive year in 2018 - official data. Do you know what the contrast of these data reveals? The contrast between those who are efficient and those who are not, the contrast between those who rule well and those who rule badly and the demonstration that there are alternatives to their policies, lords of the People's Party. This bill has the support not only of the municipal governments he cited, but also of the plenary of those municipalities, where a motion with the same content as this bill has been debated. It is supported almost entirely by the municipal plenary of Barcelona, Cádiz, Madrid, Oviedo, Palma, Valencia, Valladolid, Zaragoza; even Citizens, who were going to vote with the Popular Party, voted in favour of these motions in Madrid and Zaragoza. Today we can get things to change in this country, and we must thank the Socialist Party for starting to rectify by supporting this motion to rectify the error of the 135 reform. The Socialist Party and the other groups with which we are going to achieve an absolute majority to give an order to the government would be asked to reflect with us. Surely we have many differences, surely we are excited with different symbols, surely today it seems that these differences are insurmountable, but I think there is something much more important than our differences, ladies and gentlemen, and it is to build a decent social model. Let us build an alternative government to the disastrous management of the People's Party and its corruption. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Plant the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States We can make a profound change in the criteria for applying the organic expenditure rule, which, if implemented, would disrupt the package of measures that have been taken in recent years to avoid the mismatches of public accounts and, consequently, the pillars would be resented so that in Spain the growth of the economy can continue and more and better jobs can be generated, a pressing objective and priority of the national policy. Throughout our democracy, we have suffered devastating economic crises that we have overcome through the application of laws to provide stability and maintain it, except during Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's period of government, as his Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Solbes, told us with hairs and signals. But we have also achieved useful historical compacts, such as those of La Moncloa in 1977, which enabled us to face inflation close to 47%. At the Forum, which voted against the reform of article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, we believe that the major objectives of defending stability and correcting the deficit go hand in hand with compliance and enforcement. What is now defined as a rule of expenditure is that it limits usable resources to economic growth for each budget year because, if not met, it would increase overexpenditure with serious damage to public accounts. All this, moreover, would forge new forms of economic privileges - those applied to the most non-compliant autonomous communities are already of real scandal - without complying with the constitutional principle of solidarity that demands a fair economic balance throughout the Spanish territory. Today United We can propose a shortcut and if we accept the consideration that Mr Iglesias Turrion has defended we will get even more fully into the game of privileges, precisely when what Spain urgently needs, and very uniquely Asturias, is, in addition to stability, a new system of financing to guarantee essential public services with scrupulous respect for the mandates of equality and solidarity, instead of these proposals that would eventually lead to new inequalities, more grievances, citizens of first and second and, ultimately, unacceptable grievances. Madam President, I shall vote against this consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. We'll talk about paradoxes today, but first I'm going to give you a piece of information. The People's Party currently governs ten million citizens, sixteen million fewer than in 2011. In the Valencian Community, only six hundred thousand have been ruled by four million citizens. The People's Party is that party that claims to be a serious and responsible party, but this serious and responsible party is responsible for keeping 80% of the deficit of all the public administrations of the State, and it is precisely the municipalities that have no deficit, those that have to save its face - and let me express it - or the ass in Europe to this serious and responsible government, but that it is not able to maintain that deficit. You criticize the municipalities of change and it is you, precisely, who are not able to keep the deficit at bay. It is you that responsible government that has caused the debt to be taken at 69 per cent and is now at 100 per cent of GDP. What happened? That this year we owe 1.12 billion euros. Second paradox, municipalities absorb 13% of resources. Those of us who come from the city halls know that this is the first barrier that citizens come to. On the other hand, it is the most compliant administrations, the ones that control the deficit, the ones that pay on time. By the way, today we have seen a city council of change like Valencia that is having negative records, that is, that it is ahead of paying suppliers, but again you will try that this proposal does not come forward. They tried and arrived late for four minutes and then, of course, they will do political filibusterism so that this does not come to apply. Conclusion - I finish - the municipalities have 68 billion euros that they cannot devote to social policies because the PP needs them to save the face in Europe. I think it is clearly unfair and, of course, Compromís, which is a deeply municipalist coalition, will vote very, very, very strongly in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi also has the floor for the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u28	Thank you very much, President. One more week I must remind you that Vice President Junqueras, Councillor Forn and Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez are in prison for their political ideas and are therefore political prisoners. [[Applauds]] Having said that, Mr Iglesias, we are going to vote in favour of your initiative without any doubt, but, if we may, we are going to table some amendments because, although we share the substance, we understand that some aspects are technically improveable. I just want to make it clear that this legislative reform is right now because of Mr Montoro's lack of respect for his own promises. The problem that the rule of spending on local corporations is currently representing could have been solved with a different interpretation than that made by the General Intervention of the State with regard to the application of the rule of spending on local corporations itself. And in that we all agreed: the ministry agreed, the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces agreed, the municipalist organizations agreed, and we agreed at the CNAL. The minister's commitment to modify this interpretation dates back to three summers ago, and over the course of these three years it is not that he has been unable - the minister has the capacity to do so - but that he has lacked the political will for what you had previously shown, because the surplus that forces local corporations to have it is taken over by the central administration, which is the failure to meet deficit targets. Therefore, you have no doubt that you will count on our vote in favour. I am sure that this initiative will come forward today and that we will have the opportunity among all of us to improve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u30	Thank you, President. Let's go, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon. Public administrations - not just local ones - have been immersed in the process of consolidating the accounts required in the path of meeting the objectives set by the European Union in the area of public deficit and public debt, within the Stability Pact and the excessive deficit protocol. Therefore, the measures set out in Organic Law 2/2012, on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability - with an even more restrictive approach than that used by the European Union - continue to be an aspect that has been of concern and concern to our group. Moreover, with the adoption of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability, the public administrations - all, not only the local ones - were subject not only to the limit of budgetary stability and indebtedness, but also to the limit of the rule of expenditure, since the organic law places it, together with the limit of deficit and debt, at the same level as regards the compulsory application of its application and the consequences of its non-compliance. However, this is not the case in Europe, where the spending rule is not used as a sanction. Only deficit and debt targets are of this nature. In Europe, their non-compliance has no sanctioning consequences, which are only triggered if there is a mid-term review of the target, and also does not apply when the country - as I have said - has opened an excessive deficit procedure. Our group understands that the expenditure rule can serve as a tool of an orientation nature and, therefore, we agree that it must be made more flexible, and this is what is claimed not only by other political groups but also by the Airef, which has declared itself unable to assess the expenditure rule and, on the other hand, states that it must be a planning instrument. That is why it has also been calling for its reform, in order to implement it, as other countries in Europe do, and it is that the reform of the expenditure rule does not mean not maintaining budgetary stability, because we believe that debt must be kept in a sustainable margin to ensure that administrations have the right resources. To the extent that administrations are achieving their respective medium-term stability objectives, the expenditure rule becomes the main budgetary constraint, as it states that annual public expenditure growth should not exceed a potential medium-term GDP growth rate; a limit that is also lower than the actual medium-term growth potential and therefore decreases the decision-making capacity of administrations. However, the proposal for a law that they bring us today, let us not be fooled, is mainly a consequence also of the problem of the Madrid City Council arising from the application of the expenditure rule when there are other public administrations that are also affected by this rule and, therefore, with the same problems. I am saying this because you do not propose any changes, for example, for the autonomous governments. On the other hand, and with regard to the proposal for a law, when they speak of amending paragraph 12.1 of the Stability Act in order to inapplicate the expenditure rule to those local corporations that comply with the principles of budgetary stability - understood as maintaining a surplus position, budgetary balance and financial sustainability, which in turn is understood as maintaining a level of indebtedness below 110% of current resources and maintaining an average payment period to suppliers below 30 days - I would like to point out that, on the one hand, they do not establish when they have to meet that volume of debt and, on the other hand, that in Euskadi it will be the Basque Finance Council, by virtue of the Economic Concert, and, on the other hand, the out-of-pockets, which fix such indebtedness in accordance with the foral reserve set out in the third final provision of the Presumptive Stability and Financial Sustainability Act 2/2012. Our group will vote in favour of taking this PL into consideration because we share its objective, but we will propose amendments to safeguard the existing economic-financial and tax regime - the external specificity - both in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and in the Foral Community of Navarre, and of course to improve some issues of the proposed law and the constraints imposed by the expenditure rule. I would also like to remind the Government that this relaxation of the spending rule has been requested on numerous occasions and that, in addition, this Government committed itself to its review in the first half of 2017. For this reason, a working group was established between the Government, the autonomous communities, the municipalities and the Independent Fiscal Authority, although it must be said that today there is no proposal, and that is the end of the year. I would also like to remind you that the surplus of local administrations is being decisive in achieving the budgetary stability objectives committed to Europe as they are compensating for the breaches of the central administration and social security. Furthermore, let us not forget that the central administration has failed, that is, it has skipped three of the four years it has been in force, the same rule of spending that it now imposes on others. In spite of all that, from our group we believe that this flexibility must be achieved with the appropriate consensus among all political groups and I would remind you once again that the third final provision of Organic Law 2/2012 states that in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, under the external regime, its implementation will be without prejudice to the provisions of the Law on Economic Concertation that must be taken into account in the necessary cooperation and coordination in the area of budgetary stability. Therefore, this proposal for a law should also respect the foral regime in its case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs Jordà Roura has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u32	Too late to all and so to all. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin with two unquestionable statements. The first: the rules of budgetary stability - and in particular the rule of spending that we are dealing with today - do not allow us to return surpluses to citizens. The second: This return involves social cuts and loss of quality of life as it could be used to improve public services and to implement obviously priority investments. Let us remember - because it is worth doing so, it has already been done by the proponent and it is worth doing so again - that the People's Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party amended Article 135 of the Constitution one summer night, putting the return of debt to the banks before any other economic priority and any other social priority. This was the origin of the Budget Stability Act that strangles - and we have to say loud and clear - our municipalities. Currently, with data from the end of the 2016 financial year, 223 Catalan municipalities have zero debt and, as a whole, all of them have managed to reduce the debt by more than 25% in four years. Despite this, despite this effort, the State continues to drown the municipalities by forcing them to further reduce the debt or to accumulate surpluses when it is precisely the State that increases its debt year after year, taking advantage of the deficit targets towards the municipalities to centrifuge. It's a complaint we're tired of doing in this rostrum. That is why it is clear that at the bottom of the question there is a very, very clear objective, an objective of re-centralisation and reduction of the public sector through economic drowning of the municipalities. While the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority itself, Airef, defines the expenditure rule as a tool that should enable surpluses to accumulate in stages of economic growth to be used just in stages of recession, we believe that macroeconomic recovery, measured in terms of gross domestic product, has not yet been reflected in domestic economies or SMEs, so that municipalities, ladies and gentlemen, must continue to provide resources to respond to the many social needs that exist, as well as to implement employment promotion and economic activity policies. This limitation, which could make sense at the state level, does not, however, have any logic at the municipal level when we are already subject to compliance with the balance between income and non-financial expenditure and to the containment of the debt ratio. In short, preventing the municipalities that heal their accounts from maintaining the quality of life of their citizens is not a measure of economic control - and this must also be made clear -; it is a measure of ideological and political control of a government that sees the straw in the eye of others but does not see it in itself. It is the same ideological control but also political control, ladies and gentlemen, which they have applied to the Generalitat of Catalonia, because, despite the manipulation of the reality that some people want to do, in Catalonia we have done the duties and - I must say - we have done them very well. The budget management of the Generalitat was impeccable before you intervened. In fact, the argument for the intervention of the finances of the Generalitat last 15 September, because it threatened budgetary stability, is - and it can be said - utterly false, since, according to data from the Ministry of Finance itself, it was made with a surplus of 140 million euros and with a fiscal deficit, also recognized by the Ministry itself, of more than 16.5 billion euros. I'm done. All this, ladies and gentlemen - listen well -, all this managed by Vice-President Oriol Junqueras, the same one that you keep in prison today and which has demonstrated overwhelmingly your management capacity, which has demonstrated overwhelmingly your political capacity, but which at the same time has demonstrated overwhelmingly your ethical capacity to be a very worthy President of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u33	Thank you very much. Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. A welfare state is only viable if we can afford it. The proposal for an organic law brought here today by the Parliamentary Group of Podemos deals with the rule of expenditure, but in practice what it implies is the total or partial abolition of eight fundamental articles of that rule, without proposing to make the rule of expenditure more flexible, which the Socialist Group originally proposed and with what we agree - it should be made more flexible and adaptable to European canons - but rather to inapply a mandatory European Union tax rule to the municipalities that have surpluses, that is to say to thousands of municipalities, to most of the local public sector. In our view, it is a measure that is clearly coming out of the European sphere, and not only does it come out of the European sphere where we want to be - now the independenceists, for example, seem to be against it, but those who believe that Europe is a factor of stability, growth and well-being also have to comply with the rules - but even if we were not in Europe, we would have to comply with tax rules. And this is not a particularly right-wing approach, it is an approach of the 1930s, Keynesian; that, yes, you have to be Keynesian also in the part of the positive cycle, when there is growth you have to have surplus and now we are at 3%. This was said by Gunnar Myrdal of the Swedish Social Democratic Party in the 1930s. Nor is it such a complicated issue, this comes even in the Bible when Joseph recommended to the Pharaoh of Egypt that in times of fat cows he should save himself to have to spend in times of weak cows. If we do not do so, if we set spending without rules, we endanger the welfare state. If we follow the idea of Podemos, we return to the steps, to put more and more, to that in the future there are maximum increases of taxes and cuts of expenses. It is necessary to have rules and not to have them leads to budgetary chaos and serious economic problems. In this sense, you say that meeting the debt and the deficit would be enough, but the spending rule must also be complied with; the growth of spending cannot be exponential. That is, if a municipality - this happened many times throughout the crisis - has an additional income because once it sells some land, it cannot establish a permanent expenditure structure; when this is done, the municipalities end up in crisis and the sacrifices end up being paid by the citizens. One example: today we vote in the Senate what we approved here two weeks ago on the modification of the Basque quota and concert and in this sense the State Administration has recognized a debt of €1400 million to the Basque Administration because it seems that the numbers were wrong. This small detail, which no one has explained, has not led, for example, to an increase in expenditure of 1400 million and to a failure to meet the deficit targets, purely and simply because there is a rule of expenditure that prevents the Basque country, that is, the outside institutions, from spending these 1400 million euros immediately. From what Mr Iglesias has said, I would like to point out that Mr Montoro does not receive anything from the municipalities. The municipalities are obliged to comply with an expenditure rule but the surplus does not remain Montoro or the State Treasury. Finally, the most serious of all, in any case, are not those inaccuracies but that this rule that brings us here We can dismantle the entire sanctioning system of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and, therefore, the administrations would not be obliged to comply. Enforcement measures, fines and enforcement measures are dismantled. This has the enthusiastic support of the independenceists because, as they say, these measures allowed the intervention of the Generalitat, that is, when the former Vice President Junqueras openly said that he did not think - he sent a letter to the Ministry of Finance - to comply with the budgetary legality, it was possible to intervene and with the proposal of Podemos, now it seems that supported by the Socialist Party, it would not have been possible to intervene. By the way, the Socialist Party itself, which in October 2016, to similar proposals for amending the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability, as it then seemed to be a little less empowered, voted against, although it will now be the party responsible for the spending rule not to apply in thousands of municipalities and, above all, what is more serious, to dismantle all the apparatus that makes public administrations obligatory to comply with budgetary legality, that is to say, to comply with a fair administration of resources that, in the end, always come from citizens. The Madrid City Council has been discussed here. The City of Madrid, like other municipalities of change, presumes good management but, in the end, it turns out that it executes massively its expenditure in December and, if it did not have a rule of expenditure, simply when it acquired for 104 million on 28 December a palace in the street Alcalá to the vulture Blackstone fund, it could have acquired it and would not have breached the rule of expenditure, but that does not mean that it would have done better management. The expenditure rule prevents expenditure, but unfortunately, what it does not guarantee is good management. That's why you have to have better municipal teams. In short, for all the above, we in Citizens are in favour of complying with European rules, we are in favour of budgetary stability, we are therefore against going back to the stage, spending without rules and without control, because we believe that it is an error that citizens always pay. For all these reasons, we will vote against this proposed organic law that Podemos brings. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u35	For the Socialist Group, Mrs Sumelzo Jordan has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if Mr Montoro and the People's Party Government had listened to the FEMP and the municipalities, we would not be debating this consideration today and this parliamentary initiative would not have reached Congress. Mr Iglesias, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will support the consideration of this proposal for a law, but we anticipate that we will amend it with the aim of substantially improving it because we believe that it should go in line with the demands made by the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces which represents, as you well know, the majority of the Spanish municipalities. Because, moreover, between the free bar that you raise in this initiative and the dry law that Mr Montoro applies there is an intermediate and responsible approach, which is what we, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, are going to defend. [[Applauds]] With regard to the reference made by the Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, I would like to remind you that you are one of the most anti-municipalist parties. [[Rumors]] I must also remind you that one of the measures you were defending was the elimination of municipalities. Let's see how they're gonna explain it to the mayors and councillors. [[Applauds]] You have accused of squandering administrations that have been exemplary with the surplus. You've turned your back on thousands of city halls. I suppose it will seem to you that the Community of Madrid has a better management when it has done nothing but multiply the debt. Let us turn to the issue before us today in this debate. A few days ago the Socialist Parliamentary Group built a parliamentary consensus in this House to change the spending rule. Today we will be consistent and responsible. We don't like the approach we make, but we want to turn it into an opportunity. With its debate we will open up a way to reform what thousands of municipalities are asking for and which affects millions of citizens, and today we will again demonstrate our strong rejection of the lack of responsiveness of the People's Party Government to the FEMP in responding to the municipalities, to the problems that affect day-to-day those living in the municipalities, and also our strong rejection of Mr Montoro's lack of respect, which has not fulfilled the commitment to maintain a permanent dialogue with the FEMP to seek solutions in terms of deficit, expenditure, surplus and indebtedness. The Minister of Finance knows better than anyone that local entities are the only public administration that has been scrupulously and for several years with the criteria of stability, deficit, debt and spending ceiling. We recapitulate it briefly: EUR 25 billion of surplus accumulated in recent years by all local entities, and last year it reached a surplus of EUR 6 847 billion, which represents 0.61% of GDP. The municipalities - we insist - have complied exemplaryly with the management with the criteria of stability And why has this been? For sustained effort and excellent management of public resources. The municipalities have once again demonstrated, as they have been doing since 1979, that they are a reliable and indispensable administration in the provision of public services for citizens, despite the anti-municipalist policy of the People's Party Government. And with our support for taking into account the initiative that we are debating today, we also once again call for local autonomy as enshrined in article 140 of the Spanish Constitution. For this reason, Mr. Iglesias, there is no mistake, no confusion of battle, this is not against budgetary stability; the municipalities want reasonable criteria to apply the expenditure rule. We speak in the name of all the municipalities, not just a few. It seems that you speak only of the municipalities governed by the confluences of Podemos. And one point: April 2012, the Socialist Party was the only group in this House that voted against the Budget Stability Act that laid the groundwork for the zero deficit and the spending rule. That's right. And the fulfilling municipalities, Mr. Iglesias, which are the majority, ask the government for flexibility and want to adjust the spending rule. The mayors of all parties, including those of the People's Party, want to reinvest the surplus in urgent and important initiatives for their neighbours and their neighbours and want to promote employment plans, social and educational policies, equality programmes and youth policies. It is the People's Party government that is holding back and preventing the municipalities from developing many of these programs. In short, what we intend to support this initiative is to reinvest, to ensure that with this surplus it is reinvested in policies for people, for people and the People's Party government is preventing it by applying a restrictive spending rule and to the facts I refer. Mr Montoro has not dealt with the municipalities, we have told him several times, he is an anti-municipalist minister. [[Rumors]] More attention has been paid - and I am also insisting on this - to banks and tax amnesties rather than citizens and municipalities. I also insist that this government has failed to comply with the fiscal years 2014, 2015 and 2016. And as Mr Montoro constantly repeats, we want to make it clear again that the European Union does not require us to apply a rule of spending, but to meet stability objectives and Europe has a less restrictive rule of spending than Spain. The European Union sets out the general framework for the rule, but the criteria with which it applies fall within the competence of each State. That is why the Socialists are discussing the criteria for applying the expenditure rule, and that is up to the government. In short, we agree to take this proposal into consideration because the Socialists have always been at the side of the municipalities. That is why we also insist on asking the Government to undertake a change to make the spending rule more flexible; we are talking about making it more flexible, not eliminating it. And to Mr. Iglesias we welcome the club that defends the interests of the municipalities. I assure you that the socialists have been inside for many years. The initiative you have put forward coincides, in part, with many of the approaches of the FEMP, the municipalities and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. That is why we are going to vote in favour of the inclusion and we are going to try to make sure that in the coming weeks we all work together, all the parliamentary groups, with the aim of substantially improving the text. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u37	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marí Bosó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Iglesias, at the beginning of your speech you have plunged us into the theory of parliamentaryism and have listed the different moments when Parliament prevails over other powers of the State. If I may joke, I would tell you that in this year and a half you have used all the moments you've had and for having, that of the investiture, that of the censorship... But it lacks one, it lacks the moment of flexibility, it lacks the moment of compromise, the moment of agreement; it lacks the moment that you will agree with me that it is the essential moment in parliamentaryism, which is to agree, compromise and subject the laws to the fundamental principle of mutual compromise. I'd recommend you use that moment more. And at another time we will explain - if we may, humbly - why the central government has not failed to comply with the spending rule during these years. With this proposal of law they seek the repeal of the rule of spending, but it is not surprising that they do so because they are accustomed to proposing derogations without any credible alternative. For abrogation, Your Honor, that is not left. It is more surprising - let us say with respect - that the Socialist Group, which is intended to be the first party on the left, will appear in this debate as a junior of the second party on the left. It is not understood, ladies and gentlemen, that the party that made the modernization policies of our country for Spain's accession to the European communities sends this afternoon such a wrong message to our partners and, believing that it harms the Government, harms all our fellow citizens. [[Applauds]] I was saying, ladies and gentlemen, that the Confederal Group of the United People's Party is proposing the repeal of the expenditure rule. Mr. Iglesias, it is time for your group, instead of abrogating, to propose to agree on something. The question is: what political project can be proposed to citizens on the basis of the exclusion of the majority, on the basis of the exclusion of one and only for the other? What country can we build together, if they are interested in us building a country together, on the basis of permanent reproach and repeal? If you want to build something you need conciliation, compromise, agreement, but not because these qualities are an end in themselves, but because they are the ones that allow you to pick up the majority aspiration of the Spaniards to continue making progress. The proposal that you bring to this House today does not pursue that, but tries to assure us of all the absolute truths and even tries to rewrite the history of this crisis with the deception that the same wrong policies that aggravated it are those that would have allowed us to live in the country of wonders. What a fallacy, Your Honor! What a fallacy! Today everything is different, Your Honor, it's true. Today there is growth and employment generation where there was earlier recession and unemployment. After five years of climbs - see, after five years of climbs - we have already reduced inequality for three years, as the Gini index shows. We have already been reducing social exclusion in our country for two years, as the Arope indicator for 2015 shows. And while much remains to be done, all this is thanks to having returned to growth and job generation. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the social policies that, instead of filling their mouths with people, think and benefit people; these are the effective policies that guarantee the protection and progress of all. Today the public accounts of our local administrations have 68 billion surplus when before they had 8 billion deficit. Today the level of indebtedness is 2.7% of our GDP after having had to withdraw 30 billion euros of unpaid bills from the drawers in 2011 and 2012. Today the situation - yes, ladies and gentlemen - is different, and it is thanks to the efforts of the Spanish and also, even if it is not clear to them, thanks to the fact that accompanying that effort has been the People's Party government making the necessary structural reforms. Among the different measures that have been adopted, adjusting and balancing their effects very well, are the rules of fiscal consolidation, in particular the rule of expenditure. We cannot return to the old euphemisms of the left over the necessary consolidation throughout the cycle. We must read the Keynes part that you do not like to read, which justifies the rule of spending and points out that it is necessary that the expenses that our municipalities are making them bear certain revenues in our country. It is true that the money of our citizens must be used to make schools and hospitals and to protect our social policies to improve and expand our welfare state. But when you claim the welfare state with your wrong policies, do you know what happens, ladies and gentlemen? That the welfare state ends up going out the back door and coming to collapse. [[Applauds]] The People's Party Government has in recent years made policies that allow municipalities today to better meet the needs of their citizens. We have done so with rules like the rule of spending, adjusting and making it more flexible, because we made sustainable financial investments and allowed us to invest the remainder of 2016 in 2017 and 2018. We are also doing so, with the help of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, at the table of the National Commission of Local Administration. For this reason and because the commitment of the People's Parliamentary Group is firm with all those who need local administrations to meet their needs, we ask you, Mr. Iglesias, to withdraw this proposal for a law of repeal and to accompany us at the table of the National Commission of Local Administration, at the table of negotiation and agreement. It is more difficult than repealing everything, it is certainly more complex and requires abandoning the absolute truths, but it is worth it to continue building together, if you wish, a more prosperous and inclusive country. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u39	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u40	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the non-consideration of unity of coexistence in certain situations, for the purposes of access to and maintenance of social security pensions in their non-contributory form. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Peña Camarero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u41	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon. Julia and Encarna are two sisters who decided to live together in the last years of their life in a residence in Almazan, Soria. Julia broke her hip and left Madrid to go to that residence with her sister, but their coexistence lasted little. Julia learned that Encarna would lose its non-contributory pension of 380 euros because, when living together in the same residence, the sum of the income of the two - those of Encarna with his non-contributory pension and those of Julia with his widow's pension - exceeded the required income. The policy of this Government has led to a double consequence for these sisters: the first, having to leave the residence of the elderly because they are unable to pay the expenses arising from it and the second, to stop living with their sister at a time of life when family ties and mutual assistance are so necessary. In short, this Government has called on them to live separately or to lose their pension. In view of this injustice, we in the Socialist Group understood that this Parliament could not be absent from this reality and that we had to give an urgent response. We presented them with a legal reform that prevented these situations from ending in family separation or loss of pensions. And here came our surprise. Faced with an easy-to-solve fact, the People's Party government and its more advanced students of Citizens vetoed not only that sisters like Encarna and Julia can end their lives together, but that with their vote against they have not allowed or debated how to do so. This is unfortunate and miserable, because economically it has no significance compared to the suffering that makes them live. They vetoed it simply because four hundred elderly and dependent people are responsible for an expense that this Government says it cannot cover. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you see the plumber because, one of two: either you lie and the economic recovery that you preach so much is not such or you show how they are when you really say what you think or, as in this case, when you write what you think and you don't move a hair while you cut back and forth to those who have less in this country. In addition, the Government violates a subjective right under article 41 of the Constitution and the Non-Contributory Pensions Regulation Act itself. With this abuse, the Government leaves the most vulnerable elderly unprotected, those in need because they lack their own economic resources. Look at what our error in believing that common sense prevailed in this House, because we understood that this situation of unprotectiveness was simply due to a misinterpretation of the rule. We therefore wanted to outline precisely what should be understood as an economic unit of coexistence. Because, to be clear, we do not want to make an exception to the rule outside the Toledo Pact, no. We do not want, as politics once again says, more sentences and to bring our elders to court. What we want is to amend the law, what we want is to avoid an interpretation that is curiously produced by the Government of the People's Party, which continues with its cuts to the most disadvantaged. And suddenly this government explains to us its veto, a veto that clearly explains that you make this cut to our elders with full knowledge. They say that public spending is increasing and they don't have 13 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens, do you know what this veto means for the elderly without sufficient financial resources? For at least three things: firstly, to leave the residences because they cannot afford the expenses, throwing them at the lack of care; secondly, to stop living with their loved ones, depriving them of affection and immersing them in solitude, and thirdly, a situation of greater vulnerability and unprotectiveness. So, in the face of their no, 135 000 thousand signatures have just been collected in this House; in the face of their no, we have resorted to the Constitutional Court, and in the face of their no, we propose today that they should finally be rehabilitated, because the aim of this initiative to be debated today is to prevent family members, brothers and nephews, who live in the same residence or in foster homes, from having to separate themselves in order to maintain their pension, avoiding gaps in social coverage or legal interpretations that lead to a greater vulnerability of these elderly people. A residence, as the law should not say, is not a private home, and less if each person pays it with his or her own resources. I insist, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that this is not to make exceptions to the sacrosanct unity of criteria of the system box, but to avoid an interpretation, not to say an action against legem. So I hope that you will now join this proposal, because if not the red vermelon of your cheeks, gentlemen of the People's Party and Citizens, today will be scandalous. Or what are you going to tell them this time, that while the Guindos minister says that the economy is recovering in this country, four hundred people have to stop collecting their non-contributory benefit of 368.90 euros for living their last days together with their families? Or what do they do because this government, which is said to grow to 3%, cannot take over the total 0.1% of people benefiting from this particular situation? Or that while Minister Báñez talks about the spring of employment and wastes EUR 2 billion from the single box of improper bonuses, she does not have 13 million for dozens of sisters like Julia and Encarna, whose benefit is indeed the object of the Social Security box? They may also have to explain the death penalty that they have just taken over from the pension fund and that in addition to this year's extra payment they have to ask for extraordinary credits while condemning pensioners to lose month-to-month purchasing power and purchasing power. But they're not going to get away with it, I always tell you from here. There is a solution and there is a future for sufficient and public pensions, there is, however much you demonise the system of this country, a country where the chorus is wise, and it is already known that when in the same sentence you talk about PP and pensions, think badly and you will be right. So what we do today for nothing is good enough for Encarna and Julia to end their lives together, but in the hands of all of you it is today that there are no more Incarnas or Julias separated in this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u42	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendment made by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Díaz Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u43	Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Mrs Peña, the truth is that we are at least surprised with the GNP that they bring to debate here today, because it will agree with me that a particular, very respectable case of two elderly women who unfortunately live in an elderly residence is a case that we have to attend to, but you will understand that in the maremagnum that we have in the public pension system is truly anecdotal. You in your initiative tell us about strengthening the principle of solidarity. Mrs Peña, you will agree with me that everything that has happened in this country since 1985, since the Toledo Pact, past the last of the Socialist Party reforms and culminating in the hacking of the People's Party into the public pension system, does not help much so that we can talk today about strengthening the principle of solidarity in pensions in our country. Moreover, we should talk about a phenomenon that is occurring that has to do with reverse solidarity. What is this? It is as simple as that unfortunately the workers who have the least are the ones who contribute proportionally more to pay the pensions in our country. Therefore, Mrs Peña, I insist, we are surprised. Secondly, Mrs Peña, we are surprised by your own initiative because, as you know, the problem of this initiative has to do with a rule which you invoke in the GNP, which is Law 26/1990, which is precisely a socialist march and which provides what we mean by unity of living. So the different options on the left already questioned what you meant by unity of living and by the model we understood was addicted, because it spoke of a model that has nothing to do with a public social security system but with a familiarist and welfare model that we did not share at the time and which we share today, Mrs Peña. Today the initiative you bring us reproduces a model that has nothing to do with the life of the twenty-first century. In its initiative, it states that we continue to advocate a model based on this unit of coexistence and that we take family income into account so that primarily women - who are the beneficiaries of 80 per cent of non-contributory pensions - can be entitled to poverty. We, the women and men of this confederal group, tell them that we do not agree and that is why we are submitting an amendment to this effect. We do not agree because we believe that the time has come for us not to rely on family income to have access to a non-contributory pension, but rather that we can be free and independent and that the income of women and men who benefit from pensions should be computed exclusively. [[Applauds]] Otherwise, Mrs Peña, we are talking about the public intervention of a State which is incorporated into private life and which we do not share, which is old, which has nothing to do with what women are asking for in our country, which has nothing to do with what the pensioner coordinators are asking for, with what the unions are asking for, with what Cermi is asking for. Listen to Cermi when they tell you to please stop computing the income of the family unit to start computing exclusively the income, including wages, capital and real estate exclusively of the person concerned. Mrs Peña, the problem that non-contributory pensions have in our country, being the small expenditure, of 25 billion euros - there is not Mrs Báñez, but they are a small amount, is that I do not know if you know that today they amount to 368 euros per month, 5000 euros per year. What we are asking for in the second of our amendments is at least to increase these non-contributory pensions at least to Iprem. We're talking about 547 euros a month. It is a misery, Mrs Peña, no one can live in this country with 368 euros per month. At least we believe that it is neither worthy nor defensible to talk about this today in the GNP that you bring to the debate. We would like you to talk about these issues, so we would also like you to welcome the amendments we propose to you. In conclusion, the case of the two women you report in your GNP - I suppose you will know - is settled by the Supreme Court many years ago. I suppose you also know that the Supreme Court has said that, despite the assistanceist and familiarist conception of the model that the Socialist Party defended and continues to defend, the concept must be understood as being exclusively restrictive. Since you have spoken about the public pension system, we very much regret that today your group, as did the People's Party, voted against on the Board of Spokespersons for Minister Báñez to appear here at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, and to realize what is happening in the public pension system and to tell us about the mismanagement she is carrying out with our country's pensions. [[Applauds]] I'm done. It is impossible to talk about public pensions when at the same time they are defending Article 135 of our Constitution. We want more public spending, more pensions, more health, more health and more dignity for our pensioners. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u44	Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u45	Thank you, President. Mrs Peña, I thank you for this initiative. I don't dare call it anecdotal, like some spokesman did. It affects four hundred people and there is never less to solve a problem that affects four hundred people, precisely speaking of the amounts we are talking about. In addition, I understand that the Socialist Group is proposing this initiative in the form of a non-legislative proposal, because the legislative initiatives that have been put forward to correct our legislation have been blocked in the Bureau of Congress by the majority of the People's and Citizens' Party. We agree that if what exists is a problem of interpretation of the law that requires a modification of the law in order to avoid that abuse that has occurred in this case and in others, what would be important today is to process a legislative initiative to correct this issue and, certainly, we could take advantage of any other legislative initiative to resolve the problem before us. Therefore, welcome be this initiative. I hope that you will have the support of the People's Party and the Citizens' Party and that it will therefore be possible to move forward and that Social Security will interpret the regulations in this area differently to prevent these unfair situations. In connection with this debate we have at least two considerations - I do not know whether the Socialist Group's spokesman knows the information; my group does not know it - whether we are dealing with an interpretation of the rules that have occurred by Social Security in recent years or with a regular interpretation of Social Security in this area since 1990. I do not know whether the rules were interpreted in the same way in the governing stages of the Socialist Party and therefore prevented two persons with blood ties living together in the same unit from benefiting from non-contributory pensions if the income of that unit exceeded the legal limits established by the rules on non-contributory pensions. It would be good if, in terms of the political honesty of all groups, that question could be clarified. I don't know if the spokesman for the People's Group is going to make this clear to us. There is a second question that is more fundamental, and there I will agree with the spokesman for En Marea. Indeed, the 1990 law on non-contributory pensions established that the right to this benefit was not an individual right, but was a right linked to the total income of the family unit. Indeed, there are reasons to be critical of this consideration of the 1990 law. It is so in relation to persons with disabilities, and there I must highlight the Law on Social Integration of the Disabled promoted by Ramón Trias Fargas, which specifically provided for an individual right to a non-contributory benefit for persons with disabilities who could not enter the labour market. The 1990 law frustrated the aspiration of emancipation of the people that Ramón Trias Fargas and the legislators of that time set up. In addition, this reference to the family unit for older persons specifically restricts women from benefiting from this minimum social protection. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be interesting and necessary - and there must be other parliamentary spokespersons in the Toledo Pact Commission - for us in the Toledo Pact to examine the social protection function of non-contributory pensions, as long as they are managed by the Autonomous Communities and are financed by the State. We must ask ourselves, and the answer is very clear, whether non-contributory pensions, both in their legal form and in the amount envisaged, serve the objective we shared in 1990 of eradicating the risk of poverty among older people who could not benefit from a contributory pension. It's very obvious not. The non-contributory pension for those over the age of sixty-five is not fulfilling that function for which it was designed. We must address this discussion within the framework of the Toledo Pact, and I call on the Socialist Group to raise this issue in the Toledo Pact Commission. For our part, we are going to be in this discussion. The debate on the adequacy of the pension system should also be a debate on the adequacy of non-contributory pensions, which are the last link in the system of social protection for the elderly. In any case, you will count on our support for your initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u47	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, little remains to be said about this particular case and on this occasion in order to be able to ratify it. As other speakers have pointed out, Law 26 of 1990 already covered the need for protective situations that did not have material coverage, and it did so from a non-contributory perspective, thus understanding that it was somehow removed from that aspect of the contributory benefits that shaped it as a subjective right; and, as Mr. Campuzano has just recalled, it linked it to the sphere of the family nucleus, where income could have some justification for the principle of sufficiency. [[The Lord]] Today, this configuration remains in force and, in addition, the definition of the unit of living in article 363.4 of Law 8/2015, of the consolidated text of the General Law on Social Security, which defines it precisely in respect of those areas of non-contributory benefits, not within the contributory field but in respect of benefits in the non-contributory field, is valid, with a fine that would be that of the expulsion from that system of those persons who did not meet all the requirements and that it would be assumed that they could fill that lack of income by others integrated in the unit of living. Therefore, the debate is not so much the definition of the unit of coexistence for the purposes of the General Law on Social Security, but the existence or not of a family group to support the group of persons integrated within that area, when it does not qualify for a contributory benefit. I say this because, unlike the consideration of the General Law on Social Security, the Civil Code also has a specific definition; it has it in article 143 and, moreover, the Supreme Court has acted by correcting even extensive interpretations of the General Law on Social Security itself in judgments of 19 May 2004 and 26 April 2007, in which it precisely characterized this unit of coexistence in a concrete way, understanding that it is a legal unit of coexistence that must be limited to certain relatives, those of first and second degree who are spouses or ascendants, limiting the brothers to certain obligations, such as those relating to food aid cases. Well, this is a specific case, in which the number of persons affected is not excessive, but it may allow a link between the interpretation of the unit of coexistence made by the General Law on Social Security and the interpretation of the unit of coexistence made by the Civil Code in its article 143, and it would be possible to do so by excluding, therefore, those who are integrated in a centre or residence, on the understanding that there does not remain the obligation of food, that which would allow the integration within the same sphere of coexistence of persons who, even having that family connection, did not have to be excluded from that benefit. I'm just saying it to suggestions. For its part, I believe that the debate that the spokesman for La Marea has pointed out is possible and desirable, but it is also appropriate to do so where Mr Campuzano has pointed out, in the context of the Toledo Pact. This is a concrete debate that has a concrete solution. We believe that it is appropriate to urge the Government to consider it and, therefore, to that end, and with our suggestions of course, we will support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u48	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ramírez Freire has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Peña, the truth is that when you listen to them, you and Susana Sumelzo wonder if they really have any problem of understanding or if they so ambiguously do not understand exactly who the People's Party is and who the Citizens are. Mrs Sumelzo must be told that we have never talked about eliminating municipalities; we have talked about merging. If you don't know the difference, I get it. [[Applauds]] Mrs Peña, the speakers who have spoken before me have made it very clear that it has been a little disappointing to read the text of the proposal. One expected you to have been a little more ambitious when talking about Law 26/1990 of 20 December, where there is talk of mixed protection in the Spanish social security system. The truth is, I expected a lot more. He spoke of article 41, the development of article 49 and article 40 of the Constitution; then he made reference to the Royal Legislative Decree 8/2015, in which article 363 speaks of economic unity, which in the end is really asking us to make a modification of the concept of economic unity and, moreover, not even for its elimination or for its determination, but for it not to appear in all the assumptions, but for a very particular case. I am not going to mark - as I have heard some - this measure of opportunistic or unimportant. I think it is good that we urge the government, and I say that we will vote in favour of the initiative, but I think you should have been a little more ambitious. We also believe, like the spokesman for En Marea, that in this type of debate on the pension system we would have to think if we really wanted to pursue non-contributory pensions, which was basically to help people with protected needs, people without resources, to guarantee them a livelihood, we also guarantee them a dignified life. It is clear that in the light of a report which makes it clear that we have a non-contributory pension of EUR 368.90, we cannot agree that that is enough to have a decent life. On the other hand, when one reads carefully the non-legislative proposal, in the explanatory statement, with which we fully agree, one speaks of the need to have a system of mixed remuneration, of mixed protection, where there are also non-contributory pensions - we believe that they have to be worthy and, as the spokesmen who have preceded me in the use of the word have said, that this has to be discussed in the context of the Toledo Pact - but it is that you name the concept of solidarity several times, and, as everyone knows, non-contributory pensions are financed through taxes which we the citizens of this country, which we pay among all. A few days ago the Basque quota has been approved, which you have casually supported, and there, in the calculation, we do not talk about solidarity between people, there we do not contemplate that solidarity that you so much poached when you present this non-legislative proposal. [[Applauds]] That's not what they're talking about. Solidarity when you want. [[Rumors]] Mr. Elorza, don't be like this; I understand that when we talk about the Basque quota they get nervous. I believe that we need to have a serious, rigorous debate, and that this debate has to be held within the Toledo Pact. I have to say that I was curious to share many of the approaches made by the spokesman for En Marea. I believe that in contributory pensions, as in widowhood and orphanhood pensions, we need to make an upward revision. The amounts we are talking about cannot stand a minimum review to talk about decent minimum pensions to have a decent life and to end once and for all with that social exclusion, work for social cohesion and eliminate that gap that we are producing in society. Of course, we Citizens are going to work in the area of the Toledo Pact because we believe that it is the area where such discussions have to be carried out. In any case, today we will vote in favour of your proposal, Mrs Peña, but I say to you, there are certain elements of ambiguity when it comes to confusing certain parties. Tomorrow, by the way, it is the control session of the Government and the Government is the People's Party, so they do not do what they did last Wednesday, which seemed to us to be a spur, because they seemed to be controlling the Citizens' Party. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramírez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Cotelo Balmaseda.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u51	Thank you, President. Today I rise to defend the position of the People's Party in relation to the GNP presented by the Socialist Group on the non-consideration of living units in certain situations for the purpose of maintaining the non-contributory pension. That said, how nice it looks. As they say in my land, La Rioja, these Socialist Party guys are so nice and yet these People's Party guys are so bad. This is a quick summary of what you want to do and sell to the public. But, you know what, Mrs. Peña? That we are used to being the bad ones according to you, because we are resilient and because we are able to overcome the bad situations that you have always left us in inheritance when you rule. I know they don't like us remembering this data at all, but it's that in addition to resilient, we are like Julia and Encarna, people who have memory. I'll give you some data. It was the government of the Socialist Party that froze the pensions in 2010 and, on the other hand, we inherited the deficit of the social security system, a loss of more than three million jobs. Having said that, Mrs Peña, however, please remain calm because I am telling you that we are going to support your GNP, because it is limited simply and only to proposing what the People's Party Government is already doing on its own initiative. [[Applauds]] I mean, you guys, once again, are late and I'm gonna give you the reasons why I'm saying this. You are late because, as a colleague of mine said a few days ago in the chair, you are political opportunists and I will tell you why. Because you are interested in continuing to generate uncertainty among pensioners - tell Mrs Julia and Mrs Encarna, which you were talking about - or, perhaps, given the dates on which we are, you are campaigning with banks and private entities for pension plans. I don't know what's better. In addition, they show an absolute lack of loyalty, as other colleagues have also told you, because you lack the commitment you have to the Toledo Pact. In the Toledo Pact we have been meeting for more than a year - and the spokespersons who are here know this - every week in a discreet way and you, instead of bringing them to the Toledo Pact, bring here to the plenary a series of initiatives that I will read quickly: two proposals for law, two oral questions, two non-law proposals, two urgent appeals, two motions for interpellation - certainly tomorrow comes another - and even written questions. On the other hand, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for this GNP, because we are doing a bit of pedagogy on what is the evolution of the pension system and we value the result of the effort to which we are all contributing. I'm going to give you some quick data, although I know you don't like it: Today more pensions are paid than ever -600,000 more than in 2011 -, more pensioners are paid and pensions are higher than ever. The average retirement pension has increased by 16% since 2011, the replacement rate in Spain is 20 points higher than the average in the European Union, more than forty different benefits are covered with our social security system, not to mention the start-up we have of the maternity supplement that more than 310,000 women already enjoy. We are one of only 11 countries in the European Economic Community which has a minimum pension system and we also have a non-contributory solidarity supplement pension which receives 2.5 million people. I will focus on the fundamental motive, and it is that, as I say, once again you are late, and I will explain to you why. We start from Law 26/1990, which established a non-contributory level of economic benefits and which, as you all know, is repealed. Currently, this matter is regulated by articles 363 to 373 of the consolidated text of the General Social Security Act and article 13 of Royal Decree 357/1991. Its initiative is an exception to this rule, which considers that there is no unit of coexistence in the cases of second- or third-degree relatives living together in an assisted centre or residence for the elderly. Well, in this regard, as other colleagues have already told you, the Supreme Court, on 9 February 2005, by virtue of a cassation appeal for the unification of doctrines, the number 6300 - if you want to look at it - raises whether, for the purposes of the limit on the accumulation of resources legally required to obtain the right to non-contributory retirement benefits, it should consider whether three brothers living in the same residence constitute economic unity, giving a negative response. In the latter judgment, in summary, what the Supreme Court considers is that the interpretation of the precept must be restrictive, given the nature of the limitation of rights. Therefore, it is not enough for any kind of cohabitation between blood relatives until the second grade. But there is still more, according to this judgment, on November 16, 2017 - relatively recently - the Directorate-General for Social Security Management has issued an interpretative criterion of the term 'convival' which concludes that, in view of the doctrine of the Supreme Court on this particular issue, there is no economic unity of coexistence to the exclusive effects of access and maintenance of non-contributory social security disability and retirement benefits in those situations of brothers living together in a care centre. In addition to these pronouncements, we must add the latest actions of the Imserso, which, as you also know, is the entity responsible for the management and monitoring of non-contributory invalidity pensions and benefits, which will apply by analogy the interpretative criterion already used in contributory pensions in the Ministry of Employment and Social Security, together with this last criterion which I have told you of the unit of coexistence with a restrictive character, in the sense that there is no economic unit of coexistence and that therefore there is no incompatibility in pensions, which is not necessary in this way. It's over, President. As I said, from the outset you are late, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, because this measure is already included in the Government's own initiative, from the management of social security to management through the Imserso. I just really did. As you have been told, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we are waiting for you in the Toledo Pact, but we are waiting for you not only physically, but also intellectually. Finally, by referring to our minister, do not give us lessons on the subject of pensions. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u52	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cotelo. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendment tabled, I ask Mrs Peña Camarero whether her group accepts the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u53	We're studying it.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u54	All right, let him know before the vote to take him into account. Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference on the need not to discriminate THE CONSUMPTION OF THE PRODUCTS OF CATALAN COMPANIES. [[File number 162/000514]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u55	We move on to the debate on the next item on the agenda, a non-legislative proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning the need not to discriminate against the consumption of products by Catalan companies. Mr Llorens Torres has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to tell you that it is an honour for me to defend this proposal which, in short, only represents the defence of the interests of Lleida, Catalonia and Spain, and I feel very leridan, very Catalan and very Spanish, and because this initiative serves once again to highlight who creates problems such as those now living in Catalonia and who solve them. [[Applauds]] We are the men and women of the People's Party who have to put an end to their independence delusions by calling free and legal elections to restore the normality that you, the gentlemen of Esquerra and Convergence, or whatever you call yourselves now, under the baton of the CUP's anti-system, have blown up. Because you, ladies and gentlemen of the extinct Junts for Yes, you are not even aware of the damage you have caused in Catalonia, because, look, things don't happen by chance. If a company decides to leave Catalonia, it'll be for something, won't it? And it is that, when without laws, without votes and without international support, an illegal referendum and a unilateral declaration of independence are called to leave Spain and Europe, it is not surprising that companies, banks and deposits also want to leave but Catalonia, or that Catalonia, which was already leading national growth and job creation before 1 October, has recorded the worst unemployment in Spain and that it is estimated a cost of 2.5 points of GDP if instability persists or that Catalonia can enter recession next year. Is this what you want for Catalonia? These are the consequences that have not only been hiding but have been constantly manipulating and falsifying. Because the whole process is a big lie, you don't tell the truth or the doctor. Or didn't I say who's very important that now is disabled that companies and banks would fight for coming to an independent Catalonia? But this is not the worst, because contempt and hatred for the rest of Spain are causing other collateral damage to Catalan companies - and therefore to Catalan workers - who are suffering boycott because you have managed to spoil the excellent image that is held in Spain of Catalonia. But what you represent is not the same as Catalonia. Despite you, the Catalan separatists, businesses and self-employed continue to work very well and do so thanks to the security and stability guaranteed by the Constitution, the People's Party, the Government of Spain and the rule of law, which for the time being has cleared up uncertainty and legal uncertainty in Catalonia. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] I want to tell you that any boycott practice to Catalan products... Laugh, laugh, because it is clear that you, in the background, are laughing at the Catalans. [[Applauds]] It is another serious mistake that involves more division and unjustly punishes Catalans that we want to remain Spanish. Because Catalonia, as we have seen in recent demonstrations, is not a populous sun, but you have divided it into two and you do not even have the social majority, as Mr Tardà himself has had to acknowledge. Claiming the same is good, I do it every day. I am very proud of the fruit of Lleida and the Catalan cava and also of the excellent products of the rest of Spain because, from the richness of our diversity, the common and the union is what makes us stronger and bigger, here and in Europe, where today Minister Tejerina is defending the CAP that guarantees the income of our farmers. Let me talk to you about feelings, too. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Don't keep laughing, my feelings don't laugh, like so many Catalans we feel Spanish; it's all right!, that's all right!, that we're sick of you! [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] That of so many Catalans that we want to exclude because we also feel Spanish and European. They're not gonna make it. If you want Catalonia so much, think back now that you are still in time and support this initiative. Stop dancing the mambo that touches the CUP that, for more INRI, now proposes the boycott to the Spanish products. I hope that this initiative will prosper in Congress, because it is the same one that the constitutionalist parties supported in the Senate, in favor of promoting the Spanish brand products in which the Spanish are included and against the boycott of Catalan products in the rest of Spain. I already know that that is a lot to ask the independence parties, but I ask them to reflect; they reflect because, if they do not do so now, we will be the Catalans who in ten days' time will pass them the invoice for the fracture that they are causing in Catalan society and in Spanish society, which we cannot forgive. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Llorens. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also fix a position at this time, Mr Bel Accensi, intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u58	Thank you very much, President. Mr Llorens, I was listening to you, I was looking at the GNP you had presented, nothing about the GNP, and I was thinking: Mr Llorens wants to use these minutes as an electoral space. When I heard you, I said: it's not possible, we're going to give you our minutes on TV3 to spend your speech here today, because you're not going to vote for the Tato. [[Applauds]] You won't even vote for the Tato in Catalonia with this speech, Mr Llorens. Do you know what you have done here today presenting this GNP? They've been acting like a firefighter. First they start the fire, then they're gonna turn it off and they're like, hey, tell us we're really good firefighters. But you're arsonists! Do you remember collecting signatures against the statute? Do you remember, Mr. Llorens? You should have gone and picked them up. In Lérida no, in Lérida he certainly did not dare to go out on the street, but they went to collect signatures all over Spain against the Statute of Catalonia; you appealed articles to the Constitutional Court and did not appeal them in other autonomous statutes of the rest of Spain. You've caused the big fire and now you want us to vote for you here. They say that they are going to promote the brand Spain, and, of course, within the brand Spain also Catalan products, because we have to fight the boycott. Who caused the boycott, if there is this boycott? Who provoked you, Mr. Llorens? [[Rumors]] Nooo, no; it's been provoked by the signatures. [[Several Members: Síí]] The ones from the signatures, yes, yes. I know it tastes bad, I know it tastes bad, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u59	Mr. Bel, just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to enter into dialogue with the speaker, and I also ask the speaker not to engage in such dialogue. Get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u60	If you don't incite... Hey, Mr. President, listen, gentlemen of the PP, you're very good people. You've done everything you can. [[Several Members: Yes.-Mrs. Blanco Garrido: Of course I do.]] Am I all right, Mr. President? [[Applauds]] If I don't have to provoke the anger of the comrades of the People's Party, I think it's slick.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u61	Mr Bel, I have not told you anger, anger is free in everyone, I have told you not to enter into dialogue with the other Members or the other Members with you, which is quite a different thing. Continue your intervention.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u62	All right, Mr. President. If I have the word, I understand that the one who is provoking is the one who is questioning me while I am using the word; not me answering, I say. [[Applauds]] But, well, let's get to the case, Mr. Llorens. We have, of course, tabled an amendment to them as a whole, and we simply ask them to withdraw the intervention of the Generalitat de Catalunya's finances; that would certainly help. You have a bad day today. I guess yesterday you in Lérida didn't go out on the street; I guess you didn't go out on the street in Lérida yesterday, I guess not. [[Applauds]] Shame on you. I guess, out of shame, he couldn't get out on the street yesterday in Lérida. [[Mr. Llorens Torres utters words that are not perceived]] Do you have the right to reply?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u63	Continue your intervention, Mr. Bel.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u64	It's just that I see Mr. Llorens who wants to replicate me and... [[Mr. Llorens Torres utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u65	Mr Llorens, please do not interrupt the speaker. In the same way that I have asked you not to be interrupted, you cannot now interrupt the speaker. Go on, Mr. Bel.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. In any case, we also tabled an amendment so that that famous royal decree-law by which, ignoring the will of the shareholders, the board of directors could proceed to the change of registered office, would be abolished, because, of course, there are some things that are encouraged. You and fellow citizens have encouraged companies to take their registered office elsewhere, and now, with the electoral programme of the Parliament of Catalonia, you say you are going to put tax incentives for them to come back. I didn't throw them out before! [[Applauds]] It would certainly be much more useful than what you are proposing at the moment in electoral terms. In any case, Mr Llorens, I repeat, the TV3 spaces are given over to pass your intervention. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Girauta Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must confess that I do not quite understand the approach of this initiative which you are asking for: to express the need not to discriminate... This is confusing. You bring here a PNL to condemn the boycott, but you should know that, from the most elementary strategic notion, the core of business strategy tells us that if you really want to fight the boycott, you don't have to talk about it. And that will be told by the affected entrepreneurs, who do not want to talk about the boycott because when you turn the boycott into a political issue, in a matter or in a case, you are leading people to align themselves in favor or against and to wonder why yes or why not. On the way in, bad idea of talking about a boycott. If we want to help entrepreneurs who suffer from boycotts, let's not talk about boycotts. It's a purely strategic issue. Second. There is a clear reproach to do to the separatist parties for their crazy race towards the ravine that appeared on that spot of the CUP, of the mambo - those who are Catalans here we all remember the announcement -, the allies of the previous government, the former government of the Generalitat. The reproach is obvious. Since their successful institutional coup, 2950 companies on 5 December, and since 2 October, they have moved their head office, six of the seven Catalan companies in IBEX. Is that someone else's fault, Mr. Bel? [[Mr. Bel Accensi makes affirmative gestures]] Yeah, right? Ours? We had 6 billion euros in La Caixa and we went to get them out, didn't we? [[Applauds]] They went to take out frightened Catalan citizens on foot, who had panicked about what you had provoked with your blow to democracy. [[Applauds]] So it's not everyone else's fault. I look at the new proposal of the ideologists of Catalan separatism!, because the ideologists are no longer in the old Convergence or Esquerra, but in the CUP. The last idea is that they're going to nationalize companies so they don't leave. Where there are no private companies, there can be no corporate flight. It's a formidable logic, isn't it? [[Applauds]] Today they come with another very interesting, especially when it comes to boycotts. They want to put a tariff on non-Catalan products! [[Laughs.-Applause.]] That is, they want to answer the problem with a boycott of the rest of the world, because, as always, separatism goes around the world thinking that it is the rest that goes in the opposite direction and that it is one that leads the right direction. The failure of the process, of the process, is warned on many issues and for me the most serious is the social fracture. Of course, there is one that can no longer be denied because it is that, even though one is imbued with nationalist ideology and therefore with cheap sentimentalism, the facts are facts. The economic catastrophe they have caused is there. Ask companies why they have left, whether they have done so because of the possibility that Citizens will win the elections, how it will surely happen, or because you have struck a blow against democracy. Ask companies if they have left because they feared that constitutionalism would govern Catalonia or because legal certainty in Catalonia had been exhausted thanks to its decisions. By the way, ask Mr. Mas why, knowing how he knew in 2016 that the proclamation of independence was going to provoke a corporate flight, he shut up. Why didn't Mr. Mas say anything to the Catalans? That is one of the revelations of Mr. Jové's famous moleskine, which will give us days of glory; it will give you days of glory. Even the organization of the Mobile World Congress, the most prestigious mobile technology forum in the world, has warned, as it is natural, that if it follows instability it will leave Barcelona. And let's not talk about the damage that has caused the image of Catalonia and of the whole of Spain by the camañita orchestrated by Mr Puigdemont and company, executed by the famous influencers, the legion of Bosch, automated accounts that turned news of Russian media, very well intended, for twenty days. Having said that - it is clear the opinion that deserves me what separatism has done - the People's Group mixes the matter with the refusal to boycott products made in Catalonia. As time has run out, I cannot tell you everything I wanted to say, but, Mr President, let me say in a few seconds that I am surprised that the Group of the European People's Party does not accept our amendment, despite which, as we are constructive people, we are going to vote in favour of its GNP. However, we do not understand that they do not accept our amendment, which is intended - their Members will understand that it was perfectly in line - to pursue hate crimes in Catalonia in such a way that they do not go unpunished and to put in place the necessary means to protect citizens and entrepreneurs who are being targeted and harassed for political reasons. They will tell me where the problem is in accepting this amendment. Finally, I insist that since the contribution is well-intentioned, although with very little strategic sense, Mr Llorens, we will vote in favour. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Girauta. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Vidal Sáez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u70	Good afternoon. Next to the word cynicism had to appear in the dictionary the logo of the People's Party. It is difficult, very difficult to qualify the fact that those who have contributed most to sowing the rejection against Catalonia today present this initiative to appear as their defenders. I'll give you a clue. Spain is not bigger when the eye is pronounced stronger, but when we remember that it goes far beyond the People's Party and also citizens', much more. [[Applauds]] They bring empty words here and they do not fix the disaster or amend its excesses. You guys aren't credible to talk about this. They say that they are worried about the products of Spain brand and even those of Catalonia brand and I am very happy about it. So change your position on international treaties that seriously affect our products, such as CETA and TTIP. Protect our economy, please. The People's Party, Citizens and people of the Socialist Party have played clearly to feed anti-Catalanism and boycott, and that is why you are not credible in bringing these kinds of propositions to this House. There is no doubt that the management of the conflict between the Government of Spain and the Government of the Generalitat is creating negative consequences for our economy. Authoritarianism, closure and unilaterality have consequences; that is very clear. But be careful, because, just as there are parties - not just one - trying to cover up their corruption with flags, now the People's Party intends to use the process to cover up its economic failures. This executive has missed an opportunity and has not done the duties. The economic crisis implied the possibility of generating a different economic and productive model, more just, solidarity, solid, modern, green; a less speculative model. Ladies and gentlemen, it was an opportunity to raise wages, improve public investment and generate new economic sectors; to recover investment in research and development, without going any further. But of all this you have done absolutely nothing. Both executives - in this they do look like both Spanish and Catalan - have continued to maintain their obsession with a bad so-called austerity that leaves our economy dry. You and you, both of you. The poor management of both executives of this conflict is a problem and has effects for both governments, but above all it has effects for the citizenry. Ladies and gentlemen, 2950 companies have announced the change of head office and tensions can clearly affect confidence in new investments; it is in the drawer. There is still petrol, repression and closure in this conflict and there is a lack of political dialogue and, above all, will to resolve it. The bad performance of the Rajoy government in Catalonia has already had costs, in fact. They have lost their parliamentary support for the approval of the State's General Budgets and the lack of budgets is also a problem for the Spanish economy; the solution depends exclusively, in this case, on their ability to draw up parliamentary agreements. The clear things: the People's Party is playing with the Catalan economy no matter how much economic damage it is causing; I say it now. Attacking Catalan interests to weaken the Government of the Generalitat is petty, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] How can a decree-law, such as 15/2017, help security or certainty, facilitate the departure of Catalan companies so that they can be relocated more easily? This government has come to pressure companies by urging their relocation - that is, thanks to the support of the Socialist and Citizens' Party -; pressure for the withdrawal of public deposits from the Sabadell Bank until it announced its change of headquarters, and pressure on important industries, in some cases with a Bourbon help. As long as Catalonia is left without oxygen, the People's Party is willing to stifle Spain; so are you. Unfortunately, the Government of the Generalitat has no longer been able to live up to it. It must be recognized that the unilateral path has been a serious mistake. They said that a company would not leave, that the process would be harmless and even painless, but the events we are seeing today show that they either did not explain the costs, or either directly lied. Return to positions that should never have been abandoned, to the pact, to dialogue and to mutual recognition. Both Governments and all parties that have supported them have been playing with very important things. They have put our economy and our jobs at risk. Their authoritarianism, their inability and their obsession lead them to be willing to turn Catalonia and Spain into an economic desert as a result. Or do you believe that the arbitrary, authoritarian and brutal use of the police force against peaceful citizens creates a good climate for business? Or do they believe that the application of Article 155 or the financial intervention of the Generalitat help in any case to receive new investments? Of course not, neither for Catalonia nor for Spain; of course they do not help. Just as precariousness does not generate jobs but poverty, Article 155 does not help our economy but makes it worse. A lot of Catalans and a lot of Catalans feel trapped between two irresponsible governments more concerned about their continuity than about the well-being of their people. We don't need DUI or Article 155 or wet paper proposals. We need a responsible government to look for investments rather than to drive them away, to attract new businesses rather than to facilitate their march, to meet employers and trade unions, to speak, one by one, with each and every one of the companies that have announced their change of headquarters to return; a government to work on a return plan for businesses and to base, first and foremost, as is obvious, on building confidence and future for both Spain and Catalonia. The key to all this - you know perfectly well - is not in this proposal. This GNP only seeks to deepen the confrontation and it is this that has led us to the situation for which we are currently paying. Lack of dialogue and negotiation creates political instability. If you really want to do something for Catalonia and Spain, sit down, talk, do politics and stop wasting our time with propositions that are just trying to be salt in a wound. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vidal. For the Socialist Group, Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u72	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the previous session of the Congress, the PP Members discovered with great amazement that infrastructure and investment in science, research and development in Catalonia needed more support and an increase in resources after having ignored them for years. Today they offer their support for Catalan products and censor the boycott suffered by some Spanish citizens, encouraged precisely by politicians of their party and their irresponsible statements. Gentlemen of the People's Group, you are campaigning more here in the Courts than Albiol in Catalonia. The truth is that with these parliamentary initiatives you give a very faithful image of the figure of the firefighter pyromaniac - on the contrary, you are pyromaniacs, not firefighters - that is, first you burn everything you can and then you come forward to extinguish the fire that you yourselves have created. First and for many years they encourage the conflict between Spaniards, they try to exploit it electorally, they lead one provocation after another, they do not give a single political response to the increase of the independence sentiment, they collect signatures against the statut d'autonomia, they challenge it before the Constitutional, and now they ask that Catalan products not be boycotted because that would harm the brand Spain. And we have wondered from my parliamentary group: is this an amendment to the whole policy applied by Mariano Rajoy since 2004? Or are you alone in an election campaign? Are you still representing the People's Party on the right of 'a for them' or have you finally learned that your strategy of winning votes through the conflict in Catalonia is, to a large extent, responsible for the situation we are in today? Are you determined to stop doing politics since the Spanish confrontation or after 21 December will you be the People's Party forever? Will they again be the PP of the collection of signatures against the Statute of Catalonia? [[Applauds]] The one about the lies and bubbles about the Catalan? The one about the negation of the plurality of Spain? Ladies and gentlemen, do not be fooled, we are again faced with an act of opportunism by the People's Party, a clumsy opportunism that has led you to present the same initiative as in the Senate, without including the modifications of the transactional that we had agreed in that House. [[Applauds]] The explanatory statement could have been saved, which more appear to be arguments for inciting the boycott than for avoiding it. Despite their efforts, we cannot be against the text of the non-law proposal, yes, of the explanatory statement, which makes it a reason for boycotting, as the deputy of Citizens has well explained. In any case, it is time for all Spaniards to understand that when they stop buying a product of Catalan origin they are not boycotting Catalonia, but Spanish companies. Understanding that is essential, but it will be even more important that we all understand the need to put an end to the policy of territorial confrontation. The independence process that Catalonia has experienced in recent years has left a very negative balance for its citizens. Today we have a weaker economy, a tragic loss of the Catalan economic fabric, with consequences that will soon be evident and to which the boycott of Catalan products will not help precisely, but above all we have a more divided and fractured society, the fruit of a policy of good and bad. The Socialists know - as we have warned all this time - that this path only leads to disaster. Time has given us reason, but that is not enough. Both you, members of the People's Party, and your citizens' partners must be aware that more confrontation cannot be the solution. Catalonia needs, before anything else, to return to a social and political climate of concord and democratic normality, and I hope that you will not listen, as we here today in this debate poorly focused, badly raised and wronged by the spokesman of the People's Party, that instead of helping to avoid the boycott we have turned this issue into a subject, as the spokesman for Citizens said, wrong and wrong. Even so, we cannot fail to support the literality of the text, but not because of what you have done, who have dispensed with the rest of the groups, have not even called, have not even contacted and have renounced the agreements that you have adopted with us in the Senate. This is a political shame of lack of agreement and there is no solution on that path. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u73	Thank you very much, Mr Zaragoza. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to start by saying that this non-law proposition is a song of hypocrisy. As the third spokesman to intervene, I will repeat the word of the pyromaniac fireman, but who knows that he had prepared it, regardless of having heard him say it before to Mr Bel and Mr Zaragoza, which means that if three groups use the same metaphor, something coincides. In this case, fire is set on the mountain and then volunteers are presented to extinguish the fire. We have all used it in the same way, I do not think it was a contubernation between different groups in this matter. The case is that we have all come to the same conclusion. Who has generated this situation that denounces the People's Party? The People's Party's GNP does not claim what it claims; I do not even know if it cares about the boycott. In any case, it always confines it to the brand Spain, what worries it is what can happen to the brand Spain, which is what they really care about. Above all, they care that this House hears this exception that appears at the end of the GNP, in the operative part, which mentions the irresponsible attitude of the independence parties that have harmed, etc. That's what they care to report. The boycott is a small excuse that passed by to denounce something that you've been denouncing for a long time. You care that these parties, the independenceists, have a lot of voters in Catalonia, that they constitute a Parliament and that they have a legitimate government. You have the representation you have there and you want to use a majority here to say what you have to do there, with a majority you don't have there. That's the strategy they've used so far and they're still using. [[Applauds]] They are authoritarianism and intransigence, and they have a centripetal and contemptive conception towards the different, no doubt. There's an article by Xavier Sala i Martín about a child being robbed of a coin and reporting the child for being robbed instead of pointing at the real culprit, the one who stole the coin. Well, there's something like this going on here, and independence is being blamed. By the same token, you could blame the hardness of Mr Rajoy's government, couldn't you? Or is it that entrepreneurs when they suddenly see that the 155 applies are left thinking: is this the government that has to defend me? That is indeed an interference and a boycott, 155; it is an interference in an area that does not belong to it and a boycott of decisions taken legitimately by a parliament. If it had acted with normality, with democracy and allowing for a legal referendum... But is it that when you talk about an illegal referendum, in the hands of who was it legal or not? Have they allowed it to be legal? If it had been allowed to be legal, if you had not sown the panic and sent to the world the nasty image that you sent - that you could not hide for long that you tried -, perhaps the answer would have been another. What confidence have they given to companies and the Generalitat? To what extent have they given it support, to what extent have they pressured companies to leave, and do we know that this has been the case? And now they come with the hypocrite and pharisee act of not boycotting himself. When you were filled with the separatist word, all you had to do was say red, something that was in binomial at a time for some nostalgic and for others despicable. In any case, what should not have been promoted, and it was done, for civil and military reasons, is the boycott of the decisions of the legitimate institutions of Catalonia. They haven't even let them breathe. Government interference in the Catalan economy by intervening in the accounts of the Generalitat, facilitating companies, encouraging companies to leave, and then coming here to say with a small mouth that the products are not boycotted when there has been momentum, because that phrase of the worst seems to be interested in promoting a very dangerous situation in Catalonia. I have to finish, because I'm running out of time. Obviously, we are not going to support this text, which with its small mouth claims what with the facts it contradicts. We believe that the amendment tabled by the PDECAT in support of the real production sector in Catalonia is fair and we denounce, as I said, the interferences and campaigns that have promoted precisely what was subsequently intended to be amended. There have been more amendments, but swimming and keeping the clothes I don't know or keep the clothes. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u75	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u76	Thank you very much, President. Mr Llorens, Mr Girauta, hatred of Spain is not the yellow of the bonds near our heart, but it is the yellow of the names of the corrupt of the papers of Bárcenas. Make it clear. [[Applauds]] You, Mr Llorens, present here a PNL which, very briefly, would be: To have won the war. If you had won the war you wouldn't be like this; it's your fault for dressing up as a Democrat and provoking. We clearly say that the boycott of the Catalan economy, the boycott of Catalonia and its people is not that people vote in Catalonia, they are the clubs that gave us on October 1. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Let's make a review of official data, your data, as the Generalitat of Catalonia has intervened. Catalonia has 260 000 companies. The cave to the dictate of the Moncloa, just over 2000. That, by making quick calculations, doesn't reach 1%. By the way, of those 260 000 companies, 98.9% are autonomous and SMEs, they are not large corporations that you surely know in the equestrian circle, but they are people who raise the blind every morning and leave the skin in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] That you say that Catalonia, together with its subsidiary, with its White Citizen brand, is a kind of rough moor like Mordor, without companies, simply because people voted like they don't like it on October 1st, is to lie, is to miss the truth. Catalonia, likes it more or likes it less, is an economic engine not only of the Spanish State but also of Europe. An Oriol Junqueras-led Economics Councillor, before he was put in jail, paid his suppliers at twenty-seven days. Unaudited in the democratic history of this country! You, barely, pay forty. Less lessons, Mr. Llorens. [[Applauds]] Between September and October of this year, 20% of businesses have been created in Catalonia, 20% more businesses, and they are not all those you know, those who are laughing right now, from the equestrian circle, but they are autonomous and SMEs, to which you only do harm. [[Laughter]] In Catalonia, debt has been reduced in relation to its GDP by 3%; debt in relation to its GDP is 114%, removing prostitution and drugs - they are his words - by 100%. So less lessons, Mr. Llorens. [[Applauds]] Let's go to the hemerotheque to see how much you've helped the economy and people in Catalonia. September 20, 2017: In Catalonia there are Nazi attitudes. A certain Alfonso María Dastis, foreign minister, would say that doesn't help the boycott much; I would say that you are the boycott. June 12, 2016: Germany, early 1930s? No, it's the Catalonia of the process we're seeing today. Xavier Garcia Albiol, deputy, senator and candidate for the Catalonian Generalitat, would say that doesn't help to go against the boycott; I would say that you are the boycott. April 12, 2015: A regime made Austrians, Czechs and German Poles; today, a kind of child wants to make Catalan Valencians and Aragons. López Garrido, who has been ex of all his red white mark, and that was said in parliamentary office. In short, Mr Llorens, if you're so interested in Catalonia, if you're so interested in your people if you're so interested in your economy, get out of jail the best Economic Advisor you've had in your history, Oriol Junqueras. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Because, Mr Llorens, together with your orange comrades and your red comrades, the threat to Catalonia is not us, but it is you. The boycott is you and your jailers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments, I ask Mr Llorens whether his group accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u78	Mr. President, thank you very much. I appreciate the support of the constitutionalist parties, although they did not like the initiative we have presented...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u79	He must say whether he accepts or rejects the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u80	I can't accept them right now, even though I'd like to have spoken. I'm sorry, Mr. Zaragoza. And when I speak to Republican Left, I prefer to speak to Mr. Tardá.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u81	Thank you very much, Mr Llorens, we will take this into account when fixing the vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u82	We shall now proceed to the next item on the agenda. Motion for an urgent appeal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the improvement of widow's pensions for persons aged 65 or over with lower incomes. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, according to the dictionary, trophelía is an unjust act committed by those who abuse their power. Well, the motion before this House today by the Socialist Parliamentary Group seeks to correct the stumbling block that the People's Party Government has been committing over the poorest widows in our country for six years. [[Applauds]] Because, in fact, six years ago this House approved an improvement for pensions for widows over 65 at risk of poverty, six years ago, a law of 2011. In 2012 and 2013, the People's Party government decided not to apply this pension improvement because we were in recession, they said. It was a mistake. In 2014, in 2015 and 2016, we were no longer in recession, but the People's Party government did not apply this improvement in widow's pensions because, according to the government, Spain could not afford it. It was an injustice. This year 2017 the Spanish economy is already growing above 3%, but the People's Party government still does not apply this fair improvement on the pensions of our widows because, apparently, it prefers to finance with the available resources the rescues to concessionaries of toll freeways. This is no longer a mistake, this is no longer just an injustice, this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is an immorality. [[Applauds]] That this country, growing to more than 3%, continues to delay the rise, the dignification of widow's pensions is an immorality. There are many reasons to approve this motion; depending on the time available I will only quote three. The first is social justice, because the policies of the People's Party Government are impoverishing pensioners in general, and especially pensioners' widows. The loss of purchasing power from pensions, pharmaceutical co-operatives, the withdrawal of more than 400 medicines from the National Health System, the rise in the price of basic supplies to our households are throwing many pensioners below the poverty line. The situation is further aggravated by the fact that many of these pensioners have to support families who are unemployed, in precarious situations, in poverty at work, subject to garbage contracts and abusive contracts. Therefore, first reason: reason for social justice. It is social justice for widows to recover the 11 per cent increase in their benefits that the Government of the People's Party, despite the law, is denying them. But there are also reasons for legality, ladies and gentlemen, because this rise, this improvement in widow's pensions, is already in the law. It is not a new law, no, no, it is already in the law that passed this House by majority in 2011. It was so approved and for five years the People's Party Government, through budget laws, has been suspending its implementation. In this year 2017 has not even suspended it. This is an existing law that should be applying this year; however, widows are not enjoying the climb they need and deserve. Therefore, please comply with the laws in force. Let us show that the laws serve, that no one, not even the rulers, is above the law. Rajoy said yesterday at a breakfast in Europa Press: In this country, the law is enforced. Well, this must be effective for Catalonia's self-government, and we support it, but for widows as well. This law also has to be enforced, this law also applies, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] The rule of law is also in force in relation to the increase in widow's pensions. And there's a third reason. Let us try to preserve the respect that this House deserves, which represents popular sovereignty, and which the People's Party Government is denigrating with its abusive vetoes on the opposition's proposals for legislation. In recent weeks, the People's Party Government has vetoed a proposal by the Socialist Group to enforce this law, i.e. to improve widow's pensions. The People's Party has told us that this is impossible, that spending more than EUR 800 million per year is unbearable. They also vetoed a few weeks ago the proposed law that sought to avoid the absurdity of separating two sisters living together in a senior residence under the threat of withdrawing their non-contributory pension. In this case, the unbearable expenditure was EUR 13 million. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party Government, what is really unbearable in this country is the lack of social sensitivity of this Government. [[Applauds]] What is unbearable is the abuse that the People's Party Government is committing week after week in relation to its budgetary vetoes. Do you really think that the constituent, in Article 134.6, gave the government the power to veto spending initiatives when it came to an increase in expenditure of 13 million or 800 million over a total public expenditure of more than EUR 400 billion? Do you really think the constituent was thinking about that? This is truly unbearable abuse. By the way, the minister assured in this rostrum, in the face of an inquiry by my colleague Carmen Cuello, that this measure was to be applied the following week, last week. Where is he? What are you playing at? Neither last week nor this one; they are not applying the measure. Why? Because they want to wait for the next year, they want to wait until 2018 that they no longer have to face the expense of updating widow's pensions for this year 2017. I will give you one last reason to support this initiative to the Members of the People's Parliamentary Group. This is a good opportunity to correct their speech, that speech in which they propose that the socialist governments freeze pensions and the governments of the People's Party raise them. It's a lie. The governments of the Socialist Party, between 2004 and 2011, raised minimum pensions by 53 per cent and the People's Party cuts them because raising pensions below the cost of living increases is cutting pensions; raising pensions by 0.25 per cent while increasing pharmaceutical co-payments is cutting pensions; raising pensions by 0.25 while withdrawing more than 400 medicines that are basic to the quality of life of pensioners is cutting pensions. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the only country in Europe that does not link the rise of pensions to wages or prices, this is the only country in Europe where pensioners are becoming poorer the most and where social inequality is growing the most. This is a country, ladies and gentlemen, which unjustly finances growth with poverty and social inequality. Correct your policies, do justice to the widows of this country, comply with the law and support this motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Simancas. In defence of the amendment made by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which will also fix a position on this occasion, Mrs Beitialarrangoidia Lizarralde has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u85	Pick it up on. We are again discussing the issue of pensions, namely widowhood pensions. I would like to say that we will support the Socialist Group's motion for an improvement on what is already in existence, but I would also like to point out that even if the increases proposed here do not come into effect, the widows - as they are mostly women - will not get a decent pension. I do not want to forget that the widow's pension will continue to be far from guaranteeing the minimum resources necessary to meet basic needs and thus lead a dignified life. This is due not only to the fact that the crisis has in many cases become a livelihood for their families, but also to the fact that the rise in energy tariffs and commodities in general far exceeds their income, not forgetting that pensions, especially those that occupy us, have always been too far from the 60% of the average wage of people working in the environment, which is the only guarantee of overcoming the poverty line. Far from addressing the issue of pensions in its entirety, the PSOE and the PP continue to use them as a bold weapon when the other governs, that is, and between them they have brought this issue to a limit. 90 per cent of the Pension Fund has already been used and is threatened with the elimination of extra payments rather than addressing what is the real problem, which is not the increase of pensioners but the lack of capacity and willingness to deal with something that was predictable, which was going to need more and more resources. Instead, the system has been reformed to make pension spending go, contrary to what it should be, diminishing, and they refuse to implement measures that do not require major changes to make the system viable, that is, with a different approach to the current one. Measures such as deducting contributions from high wages, eliminating flat rates and each worker's contribution for the amount they charge, promoting corporate debt collection to Social Security and forcing the reintegration of funds transferred to banks. Such measures would make it possible to dignify pensions, but until this is done we cannot talk about dignifying pensions, also those of widowhood. These are measures that we would really implement if social security were transferred and we could opt for our own pension system, but it does not seem that there is a willingness to do so either. In any case, little step yes, but a step. That is why, as I announced at the beginning, we will support the initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u86	Thank you very much, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Simancas, ladies and gentlemen, my group feels very concerned about the cause, the flag that the Socialist Group has defended today with this initiative, because fundamentally the legal provision of Law 27/2011 in relation to the increase in the percentage to be applied to the regulatory basis of widow's pensions is the result of an amendment that I myself advocated in the legislative procedure on behalf of Convergence i Unió then, which we agreed with the Socialist Group and uniquely with the Secretary of State for Social Security at that time. With that initiative we resumed the improvement of the regulatory basis of the widow's pension started at the stage when Mr Camps was Secretary of State for this matter, also with initiatives of our parliamentary group, then going from 45 to 52%. Widowhood has worried us, therefore, welcome this initiative. Today we must once again denounce that since the entry into the People's Party Government in 2011, that legal provision has been frozen and that, therefore, the substantial improvement that was introduced in that reform could not be implemented. Indeed, in this year's budget, the situation was unblocked, but neither did the Government take the steps to make it effective and, therefore, it is up to the Government to enforce that law. It should be recalled that in this additional provision we not only intended to increase the percentage to be applied to the widow's pension, but also to improve the tax treatment of those who receive a widow's prison and at the same time continue to work. The current configuration of our taxation unjustly punishes widows and young widows, and that issue is also pending development. I therefore urge Members of the People's Group and the Citizens' Group not only to comply with what concerns widow's pension, but also with the tax treatment of this issue. In addressing the treatment of widowhood pension, what we are discussing is the treatment of the risk of poverty among older women living alone. When we praise our public pension system, we must remember that where the system is less effective in its capacity to reduce the risk of poverty is precisely in the field of women, where the main focus of the risk of poverty among the elderly is. And that affects the widow's pension, not only the widow's pension but also substantially, and precisely this increase in the regulatory base to 60% is intended to address it. It would be good if the Government were to be diligent in the deployment of that legal provision, not too long before we reached 60 per cent of the regulatory base to be applied, because surely there will be many people on the way who will no longer be with us and who will not be able to benefit from that improvement. That's been going on these years. Welcome this initiative, which will count on our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Campuzano. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u89	Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. We are again mentioning a situation of precariousness in which in this case, moreover, there is a legal pre-determination such as Law 27/2011. It is true that the situation is contemplated there for widows, mainly women over 65 at risk of poverty or exclusion, who were promised and regulated an improvement in their pension, hoping that it might somehow meet not so much the sufficiency of their resources, but rather a greater guarantee that they could survive in a more or less dignified way. It is true that that update of Law 27/2011 had certain characteristics that contemplated its postponement within eight years to reach, as you and Mr. Campuzano have just explained, 60% of the regulatory base as a minimum amount from which it would be understood that sufficient resources could be obtained, and it is also true that, unfortunately - both for them and for the country - the deficit situation that was supposed to have been addressed caused the Royal Decree-Law 20/2011 to suspend indefinitely, with successive budgetary extensions, the implementation of that update as provided for in Law 27/2011. This was also provided for in recommendation 13 of the Toledo Pact. That is an issue that I would like to mention because it is not only a problem of social justice but also a question of balance between the different benefits that cannot be addressed without taking into account that there is a set of needs that the social security system, in both contributory and non-contributory benefits as they might be, must address as a whole. I fully agree with your proposal, particularly with the first point, but I am not so much in the sequencing that is done from the point of view of immediate reprocessing because I understand that it should be applied in a short way, especially given the commitment that the Socialist Party itself made when it was in the government. We believe he did, because he understood at that time that that burden, not obviously from the widows' point of view but from the point of view of the social security system, which was approximately an increase of EUR 100 million per year or so, needed a period of assumption, integration, assimilation, to put it in some way. I also understand that widows, as Mr Campuzano has just recalled, cannot wait another eight years for this to happen, but it is also true that it is necessary, in some way, to ask for some flexibility in the proponents, and of course in the Government, if, as the minister said, she intends to take it through the regulatory process and in an immediate way. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we want to support it and we are going to do so, especially if they allow us to deal with it in this way. Mr President, I would ask you to take into account as separate points the three positions that mark the three paragraphs of the proposal, because we believe that they affect not only the integrity of the system but also the issues that are being debated right now in the Toledo Pact. This is being discussed in the Toledo Pact, how we assimilate all those improvements that we must now make. It is true that there are especially needy groups for whom the principle of sufficiency is already - I do not know how qualified to apply it - pressing from any point of view, they are in need of such an update, but we also agree that we must be flexible precisely so that they - I say it in female because they are fundamentally women - as the system reaches a symbiosis so that it is acceptable. Mr Spokesman of the Socialist Party, I would ask you to accept the proposal that we could vote in a differentiated way or, if necessary, accept a modification in terms, as appears to have been done in some amendment proposals, so that the incorporation of these appropriations can occur gradually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cano Fuster has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. First of all, I would like to pause for a moment to thank, in capital letters, the pensioners of our country. I would like to honour with our gratitude all pensioners, especially women, who, within the family institution, have made it possible for grandchildren and children to have a shelter in the face of the adversity of the crisis. We have much to learn from the tireless spirit of overcoming, from giving to others. Thank you. [[Applauds]] Mr Simancas, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the People's Party has failed to comply with Law 27/2011, but we are already accustomed to this, even if it has eluded it, on other occasions you too know quite well. To the parliamentary question that my colleagues Marcial Gómez and Sergio del Campo asked the ministry on this subject, the answer was strong: Compliance with the thirty-first provision would entail an important cost to Social Security, which is why, in view of the weak financial situation that our public pension system has undergone, it has been necessary to postpone the entry into force of this measure annually. End of date. Let me be clear: wasn't it Minister Báñez who was talking about spring in employment? Then why do we say one thing and the other, gentlemen of the People's Party? Mr Simancas, we understand and share this demand that you bring us today, but let me remind you that the Toledo Pact Commission is currently preparing the recommendations in the face of a new situation and new future scenarios and that is where all the issues and all the solutions must be raised. But this desire for political opportunism of the Socialist Party does not come from new ones, I say it because already in 2010 and 2011 Mr Zapatero applied a real policy of austerity - and you will remember it perfectly - of cuts: he lowered salaries to officials by 5%, he lowered pensions, he raised the retirement age, he cut funds for dependence by leaving them in the hands of the autonomous communities and many other things, and all this to end in 2011 with an election and, previously, pass Law 27/2011, which we discussed today and knew that you would not be able to apply it either - because you knew that you were going to lose - nor the People's Party, and that, Mr Simancas, is called opportunism. [[Applauds]] In addition, the Socialist Party brings to this House measures such as minimum income of EUR 15 billion, the application of the additional provision of EUR 30 million - which is what we are dealing with - of EUR 2 billion or budget amendments of EUR 46 billion from a guarantee fund when it is only EUR 15 million. Can you explain to me Mr. Saura - who I think has just arrived - how you do the math? If you want, I can recommend a very simple technique that is that of the basket and apples: so many apples have, take two, we have so many left to distribute. Allow me, with all the humility of the world, to shed some light on them. Hasn't the Basque coupon run out of funds to cover these measures? Or do you see it as urgent that the Basque Country reduce the corporation tax by 4 points thanks to the solidarity of others rather than raising the widow's pension or being able to invest in our young people and their education? You'll have to explain it to us. I would tell you that with King's gunpowder I too do the best social and economic incentive policies, for my autonomous community I would also like. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, PSOE and Podemos, do you now realize that, thanks to your veto, you have increased the insolidity between territories and stopped helping those who need it most? By the way, the opportunism that the old parties practice by coming to say one thing and the opposite depending on whether they are in the government or the opposition reaches unsuspected limits, since it was the current Secretary of State, Mr. Burgos, who said that Law 27/2011 was short and that its eight-year application was a long time. Well, they'll have to explain it to us too. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must work within the Toledo Pact Commission, reaching important agreements; I think they are working very well right now. Allow me, in conclusion, to appeal to the People's Party not to ignore the consensus, which is very important. I say this because yesterday we remained a colleague of my parliamentary group - the Citizens' Parliamentary Group - and I was very concerned that Mr Ricardo Tarno was strongly warning: consensus is greatly overvalued, it is better what the majority says. I hope that you do not really think so and that your position in the Toledo Pact is not completely opportunistic as it has been your mandate - the roll - in the X Legislature, when you had absolute majority, and among all of us we are able to respond to citizens' problems. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u92	Thank you, Mr. Cano. Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u93	Between 380 and 470 euros means that our widows have to choose between not getting cold or eating fish. Poverty is real for many, many widows. It has come to be called 'deudocracy' that paying the debt is more important than meeting the basic needs of the population. If we want to get out of the crisis - get out, not what we are told from the government that is being done now with numbers that can be stretched until, in the end, they say what everyone wants - we cannot do it from parameters that go back to profitability, productivity and competitiveness. This path and this neoliberal rhetoric is the one that brought us here. Either we go to the root of what has happened and why we have come to this or it will be to put patches that will not serve, that will disguise themselves as democratic proposals and that will continue to perpetuate the social injustice, pain and lack of dignity that many people in this country are suffering. As sociologist and activist Iolanda Fresnillo says, we are not going to get out of the crisis with a blind exit and it will be blind if you do not have a feminist perspective, because we have to talk about feminism as the paradigm necessary to talk about widowhood pensions. We need to talk about feminism because 93% of the people who receive these pensions are women and 75% of the beneficiaries are over 70 years old and receive the lowest, between 380 and 470 euros. And, I repeat, between 380 and 470 euros means you have to choose between not getting cold or being able to eat fish. We're talking about poverty. This motion, which we will be voting in favour, speaks of percentages, of rising to 58 per cent on the regulatory basis for next January. You'll see that, if we talk about dignity and justice, it's nothing. I am specifically telling the spokesman who brought this motion to plenary. We don't have to talk about a rise that puts us in 2019 at 60% and that we get out of the current percentage. It is obvious that this proposal is numerically better, and above all it is something that would come six years late, as has been said here. So let's see what we're talking about, an insufficient and delayed palliative. Do you remember that this increase had to start in 2012 and had to go over the rise? I insist we don't have to talk about this. If we really care about the living conditions of our citizens what we need to talk about is enough conditions and what they are for life to be worthy of. What do we do with a percentage of a total laugh? Why don't we talk about what happens to pension reform? Moreover, let us talk about pension reform, from which this motion derives. Nor was it true that the public pension system was not sustainable, nor was it true that such reform was inevitable. Did it solve anything in relation to the effects of the crisis or have we sunk much deeper into it? Yes, there are those who repeat like a mantra that we are going out, but it turns out that then you go out on the streets and the reality is very different. What it has undeniably served is to damage women's lives especially. A few months ago in this very House, the Minister of Social Security and Employment, who I understand will feel challenged today, said to herself a feminist. Well, Mrs. Báñez, who will be seeing us from anywhere, I am not in favour of handing out meat or telling any woman whether she is a feminist or not. I would like to think that we are all united at the moment when we reflect on this the same desire for true democracy that is committed to the radical equality of people. Having said that, I am also not in favour of being caught up in my hair and, less so, in this exercise of my own representation, of being caught up in my presence with the citizenry. Whoever has been the face of the second labor reform of 2012, which has made women more precarious, impoverished and ill, is not a feminist. Those who continue to give lengths to every demand of this society with our bread and our rest are not feminists. Anyone who neglects gender roles and continues to relegate us to care because he is in a Government that prevents the universality of education from zero to three, who still does not provide the Law of Dependence and systematically vetoes our proposed law for equal and non-transferable paternity and maternity permits is not, as long as it is put in place, feminist. I'm done. We will vote in favour of this motion, but, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, there is a quote from Juan Carlos Onetti in El Astillero which says: In these times - it is sad - we have to talk about victory before an act of justice. We do not come to be aesthetic about resignations because being in this House is a responsibility that is far above our speeches and the ability we have to count the achievements we have achieved. We vote in favour because it gives less a stone, but this is still a situation of alarm and misery and we are not here to support the ruins, but to make people's lives worth living. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u94	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández Castañón. Mr Camps Devesa has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, especially the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Simancas, has twice spoken about this in this House, the Minister for Employment and Social Security, Mrs Fatima Báñez, the last one only fifteen days ago. I am absolutely certain that your ladies and gentlemen listened carefully to your words. They were easy to understand, but if they still harbor, which seems to be, some doubt, they will be repeated on behalf of my parliamentary group: the Government will shortly process a royal decree to comply with the additional thirtieth provision of Law 27/2011. Ladies and gentlemen, this Government complies, even complies with the laws that it did not vote in favour, such as Law 27/2011, and complies with a group as important as the group of widows over the age of sixty-five who only have this pension as a benefit. Please see if you comply that today urgent publication has been requested on the Ministry of Employment and Social Security portal to comply with the hearing and public information procedure, which will take place tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is complying; it is complying with the law and it is complying with widows, and it can comply with this important improvement in widowhood because during these years it has been put to work without hesitation, both to heal the accounts of the system and to increase protection and that citizens did not suffer the effects of the financial situation that you left on Social Security. You are well aware, Mr Simancas, of the bleeding of affiliates that we find ourselves in 2011: more than three million unemployed people lost and revenues that have collapsed in your last year of office in more than EUR 15 billion, a loss that we are still recovering from today. With you, Socialist ladies and gentlemen, the red issues have returned to Social Security and today they are trying to make us believe that, after freezing most of the pensions - not all of them, but most of them - in 2010, which is the reality, for the first time in our history they would have immediately increased some of them from 2012. With all due respect, Mr. Simancas, there's no one to believe that. Neither do you, who have always been a lawyer - Budget Act 2005, Law 40/2007 or Law 27/2011 - for a comprehensive reformulation of the widowhood benefit. Even in 2013 they held - they can read their own roles, the socialist document Supporting public pensions - that they had to continue freezing pensions before putting other reforms in place. Ladies and gentlemen, I say this without demagoguery to all the groups in this House: widow's pensions in our country have a better legal regime and are higher than in the rest of the countries in our environment, but that is not why - it is not a justification - we must stop worrying about this group. That is why now, - I stress - now that it is possible and not in the year 2012; now that employment has been significantly increased and therefore membership of Social Security - we have already passed from 18 417 000 occupied -; now, after forty-five consecutive months of increase in the social security contribution; now that we have been collecting more than five months over 10 billion euros - listen to me, ladies and gentlemen, five months with collections over 10 billion euros; this is undoubtedly going to be the year with the greatest collection in the history of our Social Security thanks to a government of the People's Party -; now is when we can put into effect the precept which establishes the increase in widowhood benefits. But, Mr. Simancas, not in the way and manner in which you want to develop it. Now it seems they've been in a hurry. In seven years of socialist government you have never increased the percentage to be applied on the regulatory basis in widow's pensions and now, all of a sudden, you are urging the government - attention! - on 12 December to adopt before the end of the year - to count the days between 12 and 31- the regulations for the improvement of widow's pensions, when you, who have had governmental responsibilities, know that this is not possible, unless all the procedural rules applicable to this effect are breached. Where would the opinion of the Council of State be and even the public hearing procedure that will start tomorrow so that this regulation can be developed within the time frame you intend? Furthermore, Mr Simancas, there is no budget allocation for this year for such a large increase, and you know it perfectly well. We are talking about more than EUR 800 million. But with the budgets extended for the 2018 financial year it is also not possible to increase that go beyond the 1% that the minister has already announced. I encourage you to approve the 2018 budgets so that, among other things, there may be increases in the amounts you are requesting because you know that without 2018 budgets that is totally impossible. Moreover, you know that well because in the proposed law you presented for the same purpose, you came to the general imposition to finance this increase in contributory benefits. We are discussing in the framework of the Toledo Pact how to finance contributory benefits from general taxation; you have made some progress. Ladies and gentlemen - and I am finishing - calling for continued increases in expenditure by calling for a generic payment from the State is a curious way of helping to close the deficit; a curious way of acting that is accompanied by a lack of understanding of the magnitude of the figures related to the social security system. Calling for the continued growth of spending without complying with any objective criteria for separating sources of funding because it will already be paid by the State, as you do, is not the best way to defend the sustainability of social security. Ladies and gentlemen, coherence. The People's Party has it. The Government of the People's Party, of which I am proud to have been Secretary of State for Social Security, passed the percentage for the calculation of the regulatory basis for all widowhood benefits from 42 to 52 per cent, from 2001 to 2003. You have never raised that percentage on the regulatory basis. Let me tell you what lessons on your part, the just; I would even dare say that none. It's over, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on the group proposing this motion to be once again one of the pillars on which the Toledo Pact is based. I would like to say that in this area the short parliamentary regatta does not lead anywhere: it does not benefit our pensioners or those we want to be tomorrow. I think there are plenty of reasons to be very proud of our social security system, what it means, what it brings, what it offers and what it guarantees. Much remains to be done, but we must make proposals that add up to and for all, so that Spain is that prosperous, modern, innovative and dynamic country that we want to remain.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u96	Mr. Camps, you've got to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u97	I'm done, Mr. President. We have an agreement in place to renew the recommendations of the Toledo Pact. That must be the priority, and that is where appropriate and feasible proposals should be moved that should run away from making promises that are far from reality, that, when they are not fulfilled, the only thing they achieve is to get society away from politics. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Camps. In the turn of accepting or rejecting the amendment tabled, I ask Mr Simancas whether he accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u99	We cannot accept it, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u100	The request was also made by the spokesman for the Basque Parliamentary Group for a point vote. I ask you whether you accept that the vote be taken by points.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u101	The proposition carries a periodicity in a coherent body that we cannot degenerate. I'm so sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u102	Thank you very much. We shall take this into account for the vote. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE PLANS OF THE DEPARTMENTAL MINISTER FOR THE IMPULSION OF THE MEDITERRANEAN CORREDOR. [[File number 173/000069]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u103	The next item is the urgent motion by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the plans of the Ministry of Development for the push of the Mediterranean Corridor. Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez has the floor for the author group of the initiative. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point everyone knows what the Mediterranean corridor is. It is a strategic infrastructure that serves to vertebrate Spain, that develops an area that concentrates 70% of the port activity, 50% of the population, more than 40% of the GDP and unites four of the main ports of Spain. Vertebra Spain, but also unites with Europe: from Algeciras passing through France, Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, Hungary, to the border of Ukraine. In fact, the corridor puts us in a privileged position to channel trade from the rest of the world to Europe. Vertebrar Spain and join with Europe is a project of Citizens and an environmental bet. Let us take into account the eleven thousand trucks a day that leave from Murcia, Alicante or Valencia to Europe, eleven thousand trucks daily that if they were able to channel to the train we could achieve a reduction of emissions from the environment to 900 000 tons of CO2. Of course, it also lowers costs. Europe tells us to step up. Not developing it is a brake and a bottleneck for growth. In Citizens, I insist, we believe that it is an essential infrastructure, that is why we have decided to bet on the corridor, that is why we include it in the programme and that is why we include it in the investment pact that we signed with the Government. As such a strategic infrastructure, how has it been treated? How have the different PP and PSOE governments treated it? Well, not very well. Really until the end of the nineties the thing was not bad, successive governments gave it the importance it deserved, they dedicated investments in tune with the rest of the network, but since then the thing has been twisted. Governments prioritized high-speed radial corridors and clearly neglected this corridor. Since then there have been obvious problems of lack of planning, let me just give you four examples. First example: adaptation to the UIC width, the European standard track width. In 2012 there was a connection in European width from the vicinity of Barcelona to France and Minister Pastor then made an ambitious plan to connect the ports and bring that standard width to Valencia. It seems logical that this development is made from north to south because, otherwise, islands are created with different widths of track. But here the ministry has prioritized the works of the third lane between Valencia and Castellón. These works are now completed, but we do not know when they will come into service. Meanwhile, we know that they affected the line 6 of Near Valencia, halved the services and so far neither the travel times nor the number of travelers have been recovered. They are very expensive works executed very quickly and money could have been used in other priority things. Second example, the high speed between Valencia and Alicante, 1000 million euros and is a track without trains because it lacks a stretch between Xátiva and La Encina. Since 2010 it's practically finished, but it's missing that stretch and they can't run the trains. In this way the ministry prevents a half-hour saving of time between Valencia and Alicante and decongest the proximity of Valencia. Third example, the burials. We could talk about the underground during an entire plenary session, but we'll only talk about the runners. In Montmeló the slopes increase compared to the rest of the corridor and make the trains have to have a 15% less towable load. Do you imagine a business in which a very expensive investment led to a 15% reduction in productivity? Well, this is Montmeló. Or El Prat de Llobregat, another problem of earrings that causes trains to circulate at 80 when they previously circulated at 160 and that the goods do not even circulate. Fourth example, the variant of Vandellós, 50 kilometers, a trace without orographic difficulties or environmental, a simple work to unite the second and third largest cities of Catalonia, avoiding a trace in one way and with steps to level. Here's the thing, for now. It began to open in 1997 and for the moment all we have are announcements of all kinds: The White Minister announces the unfolding of the Vandellós line for 2013. Next Minister: The elimination of the single track between Vandellós and Tarragona is delayed to 2015. And this recent is the best, directly announced, in the absence of anything better, that has put on the chain. All this shows a very clear lack of planning. The projects are committed to trompicones, by local pressures, by electoral impulses in order to cut a tape on the eve of the elections. The first problem of investment in infrastructure, I insist, is politicization. It is very tempting to subordinate infrastructure investment to electoral criteria and to use the Ministry of Development as a gigantic bag of candy. In Citizens we have a strategy of three levers to end the partisan use of public money. The first of these has already been approved in the Contracts Act, an independent oversight office. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u105	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u106	Thank you, Madam President. The second was already included in a budget amendment, has also been approved in the Contracts Act and is pending development, a national evaluation office. And the third is a great national pact for transport and infrastructure. We have many incognites for the future that we would like to be solved. We bet on intermodality, what plans does the ministry have to connect the corridor with the ports? What plans do you have to adapt the railway logistics terminals and industrial compartments? What plans do you have to connect with the airports of Barcelona and Alicante, Elche? What plans do you have for maintenance? It's the eternal forgotten in this because let's remember that it doesn't cut tapes. In conclusion, the Mediterranean Corridor has suffered from a serious lack of planning, a lack of comprehensive corridor vision, local bias, lack of realism in planning, lack of resources for other corridors. Let us remember that, while the corridor was languishing, 2700 kilometres of high-speed lines were put into service and nearly EUR 50 billion were invested. We would like the Government's will with the Corridor to live up to the importance it attaches to Spain, that there be integrated, sustainable and credible planning, that the necessary investments be programmed. We would like to see the national evaluation office gradually developed, in keeping with the will of the legislator in the contract law - that is, our will - to evaluate investments and thus put an end to political bias. Finally, we would like to see more and no less trains, to be more and no less reliable and to take less and no longer. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u107	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments made by your groups, Mr Alonso Cantorné intervenes, first of all, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Roldán asked Mr De la Serna with two rhetorical questions: Is the Mediterranean Corridor strategic? Have you had enough funding? The questions were not addressed to the Confederal Group, but I will tell you that we work alongside those who defend public and social railways, a service that prioritizes people who use railways as a means of transport to travel to their places of work, study and leisure. In the Chamber, in fact, we talk too much about 'birds' and corrupt reptiles, but little about solutions for the closeness and the regional ones, which are the ones that make people's lives more difficult, or easier. The governments of the PSOE and the PP, accompanied by the great builders, distributed favors to mayors and presidents of communities in the form of high speed. Result: We have the second largest high-speed network in the world, only surpassed by China. The implementation of the AVE, it is true, has served to connect almost all the provincial capitals with Madrid, cutting between 50 and 60% the time of the journey, but, in turn, has disconnected the territories, the so-called tunnel effect. During these years of 'aviar' waste, the conventional lines have been abandoned and the paths that unite peoples and cohesive Spain have been suppressed, without a clear response of intermodality. According to the platforms, in 2013 779 weekly trains were dismantled in Spain, 172 stations were left without rail service and around a million users without trains. It was necessary to prioritize, and while other countries were slowing down the AVE, Spain relied on the daily reality, on the trains that use 96%, and gambled for 4%. Today that bet for the AVE must continue - as we understand it - exclusively to solve the unrelated routes, but a 180-degree turn in investments must be made. AVE concentrates 70% of rail investments, with an average register of 23 000 people per day. Only closeness moves to more than 2 million a day, 420 million a year compared to 35.2 million high speed per year. For each euro invested in the conventional network, 100 euros are invested in the high-speed network. The Spanish conventional rail network has half of the workers that the European average and 74% of the ADIF staff over fifty years old. Lines have deteriorated and aged at the same rate as investments faded. The transport of goods by rail in Spain accounts for 4% of the total, well below Germany, which is 28%, or France, which is 16%. The Mediterranean corridor, like the rest, is a priority for us and its implementation has been a sum of misconceptions, without any of the administrations being saved from guilt. Now the ministry already talks about more credible dates, solved almost all technical problems, but not risk-free if investments or political agreement fail. Within the corridor there are still trace problems, and the most worrying is that of its passage through the core of Tarragona, which supposes that the goods pass through the most frequented line of Spain and almost only profitable, Tarragona city-Barcelona, while the passenger train is expelled from the center of the city. Our position regarding the Mediterranean corridor is that of absolute priority. We agreed, lords of Citizens, but only today. Just a few months ago, when you approved the budgets of the People's Party, you did not support our amendments to the general budgets. The curious thing about the case is that our amendments dealt with the points which, today, the plenary will adopt, and I hope unanimously. We understand that the main objective of the motion is to save the problem of the Tarragona knot, amendments aimed at the Tarragona city station not losing the traffic of passenger convoys and with it three of the stations that are among the first thirty most used, Reus, Tarragona, Torredembarra, and a little less Altafulla. We asked for something as simple as drafting the project for the reopening of the Reus-Roda line for goods by dodging the urban cores of La Pobla de Monternès and Roda de Berà, and leaving the coast line for passenger traffic It is to do what the technicians of ADIF, the trade unions, the platforms and the European Union suggest, with which we all have much in common: that the passenger train circulates through which the population and the goods reside in the less populated interior areas. United Podemos-In Comú Podemos-In Marea went a stop beyond, and has the key - I finish, Madam President - to solve the problem of the loss of the train in Tarragona city. The Confederal Group requests the drafting of the by-pass project of the high-speed coastline line as it passes through El Mèdol, just where the works of the N-340 Unfold will begin to turn them into A-7; a timely time to bring the two strokes together. In the amendments to the General Budgets of the State which you did not approve and which today also present we asked the railway connection of the ports with the corridors, in order to give the exit to the goods and make them even more competitive, including, of course, that of Algeciras; the end of the isolation of the city of Granada and that of the railway island of Almería; in addition to the recovery of the transversal axis of Andalusia in the Mediterranean corridor, which are historical debts that will improve the connectivity between the provinces of west and east of Andalusia and the Mediterranean corridor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, you did not support any of these amendments and, worse still, you did not present them either. Now, on the eve of 21 December, we are presented with this motion which I hope will improve with our amendment, which is the amendment which the Members of Tarragona and the Platform for the Defence of the Railways support. Our group and I personally, during the 2018 budget process, when you are back to being the Orange half of the People's Party, will re-submit these amendments to the budgets and then we will check if past the hangover of December 21st you fulfill and make good the phrase of your admired Adolfo Suárez: I can promise and promise. Thank you very much, Madam President, and forgive me. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Ruiz i Carbonell has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u110	Thank you, Madam President. When I heard and read the interpellation, I asked myself: What did this take and if mean between the government and the crutch that supports it? It consisted of several parts. A first in which Citizens, after repeating in a kind of short and sticking it written a countless times in the Journal of Sessions of the Congress on the importance of the Mediterranean Corridor, faced their delay while talking about how much had been wasted in many works. As in the list of works his partner of the PP came out a lot, see Airport of Castellón, City of Arts and Sciences of Valencia, Caja Mágica of Madrid, City of Light of Alicante, Palma Arena of Mallorca, City Environment of Soria, to compensate they added something managed by some socialist who, even if not of a lot of entity or had no face of waste, would serve him to try to place us next to his partner, as trying to get dirty and rise to the PP and, at the same time, give the impression that Citizens has nothing to do with the government of Rajoy. Even at some point - you wouldn't laugh - it seems that trying to entangle us by appearing to be in opposition. The second was to offend the Government, no less than almost half a line, for what little they have done in these six years of government. The third one put the ball to the government so that it could kick to the goal asking him something like, "Well, but from now on you're going to be good, you're going to do your homework?" Give us a calendar and all forgotten. That is half the way I have found a phrase, worthy of analysis, in which he says that all this has been transferred to the Government and that they have included it in his pact, I understand that the one of investiture. And since we're talking about the corridor, could you tell us what the government has told you, the one you're a crutch on and the one you privately assume is up to you? Didn't you tell them to present this paripé motion to look good on both the PP and Citizens? By the way, in the pact to invest Mr. Rajoy - I just looked back - I found only six words about the corridor, one per year of government. I read: The Mediterranean corridor will be driven decisively. Six, not a detail or a date. And the Diario de Sesiones de la interpelación also contains the Minister's reply; a series of press releases chained from which the government's sub-delegations for the local press make public, all with a common denominator: extending the time limits of the works. In short, it is difficult to ignore the idea that the motion is a paripé between the government party and the government crutch party. Then he robbed me of another question, would there be any other reason for the motion? As I am from Tarragona - I already know that by my accent they would never have said it - it occurred to me that, although the runner affects different communities, it might have had to do with the Catalan elections. It was about giving the feeling, from the PP and from Citizens, that they were dealing with one of the issues that is most concerned in Catalonia and that so far they may have been little concerned. Is this a clear case of opportunism? Citizens' opportunism, which is noted that it does not manage municipalities or communities when reading the motion. By the way, was only six words in your investiture pact with Mr. Rajoy because the PP didn't let them put anything else or because they didn't think about the corridor? And opportunism of the PP, who must think that we do not remember his commitments, his statements or his press releases. In Tarragona we even collected statements that they have published about the corridor, including those of the visits of their predecessor, in which we were told that everything would end in 2015: the third lane of Tarragona-Castellbisbal or the station of Cambrills, for giving two examples. Well, on the third lane, neither a naughty one has touched, nor the station is finished. And if we reviewed the entire corridor, the list of missed deadlines would be endless. As I always blame everything on a former socialist government, I will refresh their memory in two things. The first is that our commitment to the corridor comes long before we were opposed. It has never approved the PP government - now assisted by citizens - investments comparable to those approved by the last socialist government. The second is that they seem to forget that in this Legislature, the XII, there is a government of the People's Party, that in the previous one, in the XI, there was a government of the PP, and that in the previous one, in the X, it was also of the People's Party, and all with the same president, Mariano Rajoy; and that its predecessor, Dona Ana Pastor, was also of the PP. In short, you are your heirs. They assume their responsibility and stop acting like they're a Peter Pan doing politics, and by the way explain to their advanced apprentices - to Citizens - to be right-wing who need credibility. You know it well: You cannot continually launch ideas that harm the interests of the citizens of Catalonia and one good day go out with them. Finally, in the Senate - and even here, with the vote of the PP - we presented, debated and approved initiatives related to the Corridor in November 2016, and in February and March of this year. In the Socialist Group with such motions we want to reach agreements, we always try and do so now too, but we cannot let go of the opportunity to say two things and that is the end of it. It is a lack of respect for all of us on the part of the Government that we have to discuss and approve the same thing every several months, as if we were hamsters on its wheel, and that it is not a question of making motions, but of requiring the Government to respect and abide by what we, the representatives of popular sovereignty, approve. Thank you for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Barrachina Ros has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is not necessary to reiterate the importance of this Mediterranean corridor and, therefore, the Government that presides Don Mariano Rajoy, while others speak, speak and speak, does, does and does: 13.8 billion euros already invested in a corridor, the Mediterranean, which naturally was not born with the proposal that I wilfully judge that makes Citizens and that it proposes today. I was surprised by a reference to past events on the eve of the elections, and I repeat that on the eve of the elections because next week there are elections. I say this because the 1300 kilometres that link Algeciras with the French border are not the fruit of a day; they are the fruit of the efforts of many governments. I mean - and I'm sorry to be so hard with this data - that Spain was already the first nation in the world in miles of high speed per inhabitant before the Citizens Party had the first deputy; we were already the first nation. Moreover, Spain is today the first country of the fifty of the European Union in rail quality - safety, punctuality, comfort - and it was already before Citizens took the first seat in this House. Therefore, no one has discovered today the Spanish nation or the enormous benefits of its railways. But I repeat that it seems to me right to underline the commitment of Citizens, of the People's Party and also of the Socialist Party and of Podemos with this indispensable corridor for the fruits of Valencia, for those of Murcia, for those of Almería, for our tourists, for the tile sector, for everyone. That is why we want to reiterate with an amendment our purpose for this corridor to be a reality as soon as possible. I would also like to welcome the precision with which it is required. I have seen how a press clipping was remembered, and I welcome that when in 2016 the party that proposes it today said it was barbaric -2016, huh?, last year - projecting new lines today say it lacks planning. No, what the Spanish nation lacks is more employment and more resources to do things more quickly and the right thing is to get where we are. This is a trans-European corridor, therefore, it must be analysed in the European context and Spain now starts from being the first country in Europe in kilometers of AVE and the first in the world in kilometers per inhabitant of AVE but it is also that in the six countries through which the Mediterranean corridor - Spain, France, Italy, Croatia, Hungary and Slovenia - the distance between Spain and the second European country in execution of the Mediterranean corridor is abysmal, stratospheric. In other words, the deadlines that have been given here - those given by the minister Don Íñigo de la Serna, as well as Dona Ana Pastor previously - were executed with prominence in this development of the Mediterranean corridor. They say that by 2020 it will be possible to move from the French border to Murcia with European width and in 2023 to Algeciras. Do you know what the second of the six countries the runner runs through? France is the second most advanced in execution and figures most of its stages between 2030 and 2035 - I say this so that we do not fall into the ridiculous of thinking that the Spanish goods, being the objective of this train to reach Central Europe, will stand still -; I repeat that France figures its stages between 2030 and 2035, but that is that many of the 150 -150!- Italian projects do not have start date. In Croatia, where this train transits, there is only one section, that of Zagreb airport, which has the date of completion, but not the date of start of the sections. So let's put a little weighting, a little optimism. If Spain is one of the countries with the best infrastructure in the world, although we have a great deal to do, let no one be ashamed, let no one fall for it. If we are the first in this group of six to carry out the Mediterranean Corridor, it is a good thing; if we have already implemented 13,843 of the 21 billion, it is good news and if in 2020, in this legislature, the vast majority will be completed, it is also good news. That is why I ask Don Fernando Navarro, the spokesman for Citizens, to accept the amendment with which the People's Group intends to improve with this agreement, with this national pact for infrastructure, this text that allows, what it is trying to do is, within this unstoppable advance that the Spanish nation is experiencing today, to contribute with a granite more sand. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u115	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u116	In its economic program of 2015, Citizens proposed to paralyse the AVE and rated high rail speed as an investment that is not socially profitable nor generates new activity nor attracts companies or investment, among other negative aspects. Therefore, it cannot be surprising that the authors of this initiative do not promote the international width, which is precisely what the drivers of the Mediterranean Corridor, the Valencian Association of Entrepreneurs, claim as a definitive solution, for the whole journey of more than 1200 kilometers between the French border and Algeciras. [[Show text]] This motion is... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u117	One second, Mr. Martínez Oblanca. Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats and remain silent, please. [[Pause]] Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u118	This motion is contrary to Spain's interest in not requiring the wide UIC or international standard, which is fundamental to the competitiveness of companies in the Valencian Community, Murcia and Almería, which are claiming it. The motion seems to have been drafted by Renfe, who is committed to protecting his ruinous monopoly with the 19th and anti-European broad Iberian in full European rail liberalisation. The bottom line is that Citizens do not believe in Spain's competitiveness or railway integration in Europe. In Asturias we know this well because they are actively fighting it for the few 70 kilometers between Leon and Lena, much of them through the tunnels of Pajares, promoting political obstacles for the Asturians not to integrate into the most modern infrastructures and transport and we remain anchored to the Iberian width, consolidating Spain of the two speeds: the Spanish first and second in a new kind of internal railway border: that of the communities with AVE converging with the rest of Europe and those that would remain relegated from the high speed. The Mediterranean corridor without standard width would mean moving the Spanish railway border from the Pyrenees to Catalonia and the Basque Country, whose railway networks do. I conclude, Madam President. The international width UIC or standard is equivalent for the railway to what the euro implies to an entrepreneur or a traveler who is part of the European Union, hence we will vote against this motion that would in no way favor the railway policy of Spain of the twenty-first century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u120	Thank you very much, Madam President. I go up to the stand with my heart filled with emotion after the words of Mr Barrachina, who asked us for optimism. I will give you a real optimism: of the 167 million budgeted for the Mediterranean Corridor in 2017, the real investment is 8 million, i.e. an execution of 4.8%; I repeat, an execution of 4.8%; a figure that, of course, invites you to have an 'optimism' disheartened. There is a joke about Valencia that says that the turtles that were released a month ago on the beach of Saler in Valencia have just arrived at the Balearic Islands and that if they had gone with the Mediterranean corridor they would still be in Valencia, because we have been years and years and years after that. These are prejudices, and I will give you three figures that I do not say, but the Valencian Association of Entrepreneurs. If the corridor were made, probably the cars that are manufactured in Almussafes would be 300 euros cheaper; the fruits and vegetables, if they could circulate through the Mediterranean corridor would be 3 cents per kilo cheaper; and there is news that has come out these days and is that the Italian ceramic industry has already chartered the first train to the first consumer of tiles in the world, that is, a competitor of the Castellón tile industry is already selling because it can circulate with trains, and here we follow'surrounded by optimism'. I'm done. I sincerely believe that the People's Party is a clear obstacle to the progress of the economy of the autonomous communities of the Mediterranean and, therefore, of the Spanish economy. Therefore, less words, less sluggishness and more budget execution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the same group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u122	Thank you, President. Mr Navarro, works are love and not good reasons and I think that should summarize your proposal here. I am not saying whether it is electoral or not, whether there are elections in Catalonia or not, which is obvious, but the 2017 budget approved it you, you citizens, and regarding 2018 Mr Rivera explained from here that you had already incorporated I don't know how many matches, of which I didn't hear any on the Mediterranean corridor. Mr Roldán said that he had incorporated I don't know how many matches and I didn't hear any matches from the Mediterranean Corridor. In the budget that you approved for 2017, listen: Corridor of the Mediterranean, province of Barcelona, 2016 budget, 25 million euros; executed 4.6. They stopped running in 2016 21.3. Its budget, its budget, incorporates 4.25. They stopped running 21 and incorporated 4.25, in 2017. Vandellós-Tarragona, the motion comes out - I say it for those who are listening in Catalonia to the electoral proposal of Citizens - and the 2016 budget was 124, of which 35. They stopped running 89 in 2016, and how many citizens put in the 2017 budget? Well, 75. Hey, you guys stopped running 89, and you're proposing 75? I'm going to wait for the 2018 budgets and let's see the matches for the Mediterranean Corridor in Catalonia, Mr Navarro. Mr Barrachina, in my son's and daughter's school, when you run 18% or 28% of the exam, you don't give it exactly an outstanding but give it a suspense, a great suspense, and that's what the governments of the People's Party have done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u123	I ask Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez whether he accepts any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u124	We're drafting a transaction with those received. We want you to have as much acceptance as possible and we'll hand it over as soon as we have it.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u125	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) may in common be invited to attend on the subject of the Government's policy on the administration of justice. [[File number 173/000070]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u126	We continue with the motion, following urgent questioning, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the government's policy on the administration of justice. Mr Santos Itoiz has the floor for the author group of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u127	Sweep on, good afternoon. The other day we had an appeal to the Minister of Justice whom he personally thanked for having time to devote to discussing the extensive, deep, sustained problems of the Administration of Justice in the Spanish State. We made a detailed account of the shortcomings of justice, certainly shared and lived by the professionals who are working on this matter day by day. We explained to him why we and we were basically dissatisfied with the situation, the inactivity of the Government and the so-called National Pact for Justice, because we understood that it was not being useful to solve the increasingly urgent problems that we have. We must acknowledge that we believe that the Minister's response was clearly unsatisfactory, that is, it did not go into any depth at any time on what the objectives and short-term plans the Government was going to make to give some satisfactory way out to at least one of the priorities we were putting forward, and he said goodbye, "I am waiting for you in the pact." This leaves one certainly stupefied because when one says he's leaving and another says he's waiting for you here, there are two possibilities: either they haven't heard you or they've misunderstood you. We must therefore clarify what our situation is in this respect. They say that one of the keys to human evolution is that we stopped walking four feet and stood up for sure to look in the savannah above the cereals to see if there were predators. Therefore, the obligation of any good politician or any good organization is to stand up and look at what surrounds it in 360 degrees to know where we are and at what point. Firstly, we must say that there is a total lack of political confidence in a minister who has just been repudiated for trying to interfere with the administration of justice within the framework of a party, the People's Party, with large and serious cases of corruption - what we are going to say that has not been said enough in this forum - and harassed by this situation, therefore, with a partisan interest, right, in which some or some of the shortcomings of justice are not solved. On the other hand, we have to say that there is a normative paralysis. That is, the government and the People's Party are like the horticultural dog: they don't do or let do. So we have - as has also been said to satiety but which is often desirable to repeat - more than forty-four vetoes of the laws of this Parliament and we have a systematic and ingenious extension of the amendments to the adopted laws which prevent us from actually doing what we are theoretically here for, which is to debate between us and ourselves the possibility of bringing forward some legal regulation, because there is one. While we are talking about a pact for justice and we gather and comment, we are actually bringing some laws, but if we look at what laws are we will see that they are only those that the People's Party has been interested in at a given time, and among them we can quote the Law of Free Legal Assistance to solve the problem that the People's Party itself generated with the Montoro VAT issue; the problem of returning judicial permits to solve that problem that it created in 2012 -- guess! Montoro; the extension of the extension of the notification to prosecutors by Lexnet to solve a problem of inefficiency and management of the electronic file, this time by Mr Catalá. Therefore, we do bring some laws, although we are trivializing them, and we do not bring those that would really mean giving real and legal content to a legislature and that are those that would have to be on the annual regulatory level of the Ministry of Justice of the year 2018, that are those that we all debate and that are actually standing waiting for Godot, or something like that. If all this is combined with the fact that there is an obvious paralysis of the Committee on Justice, which does not exercise any function of impulse or control because it is simply paralyzed, first of all, by appearances which, although interesting, do not allow us to move forward and, then, in discussions which lead to an excessive level of generalisation because as soon as we go down we no longer move forward, the obvious conclusion is that we must start work and take initiatives. Those positive initiatives respond to the prioritization of all the measures set out in the motion that we and we have put forward. Therefore, apart from very generic issues such as asking the People's Party once again to stop interfering with judicial independence, a matter on which all judicial associations complain, there are a number of issues relating to the tax status, because we must guarantee independence and whose first steps we have already taken, the General Council of the Judiciary, whose first steps we have also taken from this group calling for the repeal of Law 4/2013; we have to give a complete review of the justice budgets in the Modernisation and Rationalization Plan, and we will see, if in the end they bring us a budget, what are those priorities, because so far they have all turned to the failure of all or nothing of the zero role, which is an excessive role at the end. There are also issues that we think are fundamental at this time, for example, a bill to adapt the system of initial selection and training of judges and prosecutors, which has not been done throughout the constitutional period that we now have, and which involves adapting the selection of judges and prosecutors to the twenty-first century and not by purely memoristic opposition criteria. We also need to adapt the calls of judges and prosecutors to try to adapt that ratio that compares us to Europe. That is why we need an annual call commitment, and that is simply putting money on the table and political commitment. In the area of corruption, it is clear that all courts must be provided with forensic bodies, aid and means. We found it quite shocking to read testimonies such as that of Castro Urdiales' judge, who investigated twenty cases of corruption, who says that he has not been systematically appointed as reinforcement judges, that there is a shortage of media, that he has had pressure, instrumentalization of the press and social surveillance. In short, someone may think that he is a hero for fighting for everything that citizens consider fair and of values that is fighting against corruption that does so much harm to the political system and to the system of values of citizenship, but we do not want heroes; we want a normal, not exceptional justice, and a justice that works. We therefore ask you to vote in favour of the points of this initiative. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u128	Thank you very much. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since Compromís, we are committed to bringing justice closer to people so that it is truly a justice of proximity, on the street, an accessible justice, that is not costly, that the right to universal and free justice is truly recognized, that mediation prevails, not conflict, that judges, prosecutors and other servants have a good knowledge of the territory, language and customs of the place where they are serving. But for all this we must make an effort all of us, the Legislature with our proposals and the Government with its actions. Commitment will always be on the side of those who demand more and better justice. We shall therefore vote in favour of this motion. However, I would like to point out that in the wording of this motion I note that there is a sort of desire to include issues of a very different nature. I do not know whether because of the proximity of Christmas time it seems that rather a kind of letter is being made to the Magi because here we see the fourteen points proposed to us and, on the one hand, we are talking about avoiding issues that are simply political interference by the Executive; on the other hand, we are referring to issues of pure judicial modernization; on the other hand, we are referring to money, to the need to have sufficient budget allocations; we are also talking about issues of administrative rationalization and, lastly, and also very important, we are talking about the protection of fundamental rights that are quite parked in the field of justice, for example, respect for linguistic rights. Those of us who come from territories that have a language other than Spanish know very well what is happening. Or, for example, the goal of gender parity. However, we understand that the ultimate meaning of this motion is to establish a sort of counter table in which we see what the state of the matter really is today and now with our favourable vote we have the opportunity to demonstrate that we want to move on and enter a new situation of momentum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u130	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Guillaumes i Ràfols has the floor. Mr Guillaumes and Mr Ràfols: Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to remind you that at this moment, as we are talking, a number of people will probably be in the middle of dinner, locked up by their political ideas or because they have carried out their electoral programme. [[Applauds]] The problem we are talking about today is not a minor problem. To prepare this intervention I have sought if anyone had done a study of the number of companies that had no profits, that had to close, patents that could not be closed, individuals who lost their income only because of the slowness of justice. If this study has not been done, it would have to be done. If something slows down the speed of a country, of a functioning administration, it is the slowness of justice. A slow justice is not justice because many times the company has had to close or the patent or business cannot be carried on. Besides, we have a 19th century justice. When in a bus company the driver gets sick, they replace him and in peace. When this happens in a court of law it is extraordinarily complicated, so you can imagine, with a circuit like this, what it will be like. We do not have an approved justice system and the demonstration is that a Belgian judge recently found that the offences covered by the Spanish Penal Code had no translation into a democracy absolutely approved as the Belgian one. [[Applauds]] We are in the 19th century in both content and media, that is what is happening to us. We will therefore vote in favour of the proposal that has been tabled. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will intervene very briefly. The Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea presents to us a motion on the administration of justice with fourteen points, a motion that I say from now on we will not support for the same reasons why we have not supported a large part of the initiatives that have been presented in this House, to the extent that they were coetane and their possible content being treated by the subcommittee for the establishment of basic political, forward-looking, cross-cutting consensus on the administration of justice. At the moment when this motion is presented to us, the various parliamentary groups are, after multiple appearances of actors involved in the administration of justice, in the process of drawing up conclusions of the subcommittee. For this reason, we do not consider it appropriate to discuss the content of the motion before us at the plenary session of this House and at the moment, with the nuance - that is to say - that the position of our parliamentary group in the Basque Nationalist Party does not necessarily presuppose rejection of the material content of the motion. What is proposed in it will be discussed within the subcommittee... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u133	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u134	Thank you, President. We will discuss this in the Sub-Commission and finally take a decision on the work of the Sub-Commission, wishing, in any case, that what we achieve there would be the best manifestation of dialogue, of the pact and of the cross-cutting agreement and also of a modernising impetus for the administration of justice. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u135	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Very late, ladies and gentlemen. To speak today of justice in Spain is to speak of a lack of judicial independence, of politicization of justice, is to speak of political prisoners and of a corrupt prosecutor's office, which acts to the dictate of the Government, in this case of the Government of the People's Party. The years go by and the situation doesn't change. Why? Because there has been no political will. For sample, a button. The Spanish State is the third in line to be independent of the judicial systems of the European Union. This is said by the European Commission in the data it released in April. Spain is the twenty-five of the twenty-eight and is at the level of Bulgaria, Croatia and Romania. Greek report by the Council of Europe's anti-corruption group: of the 21 countries analysed, Spain is the 21st. It ignored three of the four recommendations. World Economic Forum: In the report published in September this year Spain stands at fifty-eight, at the Botswana level, as far as judicial independence is concerned, below Kenya, China, Saudi Arabia or Egypt. Conclusion: there is no judicial independence in Spain. The European Union says so, the Council of Europe says so, and the World Economic Forum says so. What is in Spain is political prisoners, while corrupt convicts and ultra-convicted people are camped on their own. It is not proper for a democratic rule of law to accuse President Puigdemont, Vice President Junqueras and the rest of the legitimate Government of Catalonia of having committed a crime of rebellion. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u137	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u138	Since it is not proper for a democratic State governed by law to initiate general causes for ideological reasons. You know this, ladies and gentlemen, just as the attorney general of the signatory state of the complaint and the one who is now going to take office and as well as Judge Lamela and Judge Pablo Llarena knew. The criminal type of rebellion requires a violent uprising and the use of certain means, and you know that this has not happened. Catalans and Catalans are a peaceful people. Catalonia's independence process is a democratic process, from the bottom up, civic and peaceful, and at the moment Vice-President Oriol Junqueras, Councillor Quim Forn, Mr Jordi Sànchez and Mr Jordi Cuixart are in prison for what they think and for what they stand for. Look, the Criminal Code does not punish - or should not punish - intentions or ideas. It should punish and punish facts, typical and punishable conduct. What is happening right now is typical of totalitarian regimes and is called the criminal law of the enemy. That is why Supreme Court judge Pablo Llarena has withdrawn the Euroorder issued by Judge Lamela of the National Court. The Spanish Supreme Court has renounced its request to the Belgian courts to place the Catalan Government in exile at the disposal of the Spanish courts because it was to be disallowed by its European colleagues, because it knew that a genuine independent court would not make an accusation for crimes that are not sustained. From the strictly legal point of view, of the obligations of a judge and of the requirements contained in the Criminal Procedure Act in force in the Spanish State, can a judge give effect to all the measures available to him to give effect to the action of the justice system? No, no, If you give up, you do it because you know that crimes are nonexistent. The inexplicable thing is that the four people who are in prison remain in prison. In fact, more than one hundred professors of criminal law from all over the Spanish State have already ruled on this subject and have said that there is no crime against them. Vice President Junqueras is still in prison because you are afraid of him and for political reasons. It is an improper political judgment of a democratic rule of law. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, are used to doing and undoing your will and interfering with justice, and you are surprised that a European state does not do the same. For this reason the Minister of Justice was repudiated, for this reason the prosecutor general of the already deceased State was also repudiated. How has Europe responded to the Minister of Justice's request to change the Euroorder? Europe's gateway to changing the Euroorders so that you could imprison legitimate representatives of the people of Catalonia. Sonora slapped the Spanish Minister of Justice. I'm finishing up, ladies and gentlemen. In Republican Left we go to these elections with our hands tied. Oriol Junqueras, the leader of the Republican Left, is in provisional detention simply because he is an independentist. To all this, the guaranteed proclamations of the constitutional text have fallen. Where is article 24 of the Spanish Constitution? The Spanish Administration of Justice has very little to do with the law and too much to do with the sinrazón and the bonfires. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u139	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gómez Balsera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u140	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are discussing a rather extensive government policy motion on justice, with fourteen points, many of which we share, but which is inappropriate and unfair with the work of the subcommission for a justice strategy and is also presented as a text full of obviations and inconcretions. I say obvious because, in essence, these fourteen points are summed up in which you ask the Government to respect the separation of powers, the independence of the judiciary and to comply with the law. This is very good, we share it, but it does not cease to be a mere expression of good wishes. How can we deepen these objectives? With a motion in which Congress urges the government to do something? Mr. Iglesias explained them to us this afternoon very well: motions and non-law propositions do not have much future. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u141	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u142	This is achieved, ladies and gentlemen, by negotiating... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u143	Why don't you shut up, please?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u144	It is achieved by negotiating, sitting down to discuss point by point, doing politics. On the other hand, you have risen from the negotiating table of the justice strategy and you have never sat at the budget table, which is graceful because in your question the other day you reproached the Government for lacking a plan for justice and for criticizing the justice budgets, matters, as I say, in which you do not want to participate, but you allow us now, as has already been said here, to present a letter to the Magi asking precisely that, a plan for justice and better budgets in this area. You have abandoned a negotiation aimed at lighting up that plan that you are now calling for, not just for it to be implemented by this Government, but also to commit the coming governments, because it will be the result of broad agreements and consensus to which you have decided not to be a party. They have abandoned a strategy in which some of the points of this motion are already agreed, such as the 2nd, the reform of the Organic Statute of the Prosecutor's Office before taking over the investigation, a strategy that turns point 3 of its motion, modernization and agility, into a complete block and then develops in numerous concrete recommendations. That's why your motion sins of vagueness or indecree. Other points are in the process of being negotiated, such as respect for linguistic rights or gender parity, now that we are negotiating block three, a justice for people, or for people, if they prefer. But you have left before you start negotiating this bloc, you have not put forward your proposals and you have left people behind. But, without a doubt, the most surprising thing about this motion is that you are asking the Government to bring to this House as a matter of urgency a bill that will change the system of election and functioning of the General Council of the Judiciary when you have just registered one yourself. Do they not like your proposal for a law or do they simply repeal Mr Gallardón's reform without proposing an alternative model, and ask the government to improve it? Is this the legislative initiative they wanted to recover by abandoning the strategy? Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to abstain in the vote on this motion for the reasons expressed, for loyalty and to continue to participate and work on the national justice strategy, where we will make use of concrete measures to ensure the effective separation of powers and the independence of the judiciary, and we will continue to try to incorporate our policies into the budgets. There are departures from the Mediterranean corridor, Mr Bel, but they will also allow, for example, to continue with the Modernisation of Justice Plan or to launch the shock plan to increase the seats of judges and prosecutors if the general budgets of 2018 are approved. In short, things like those that are called for in this motion, but real and tangible, because what you bring us today does not seem to be a motion resulting from an urgent inquiry, rather it seems to be an urgent motion resulting from the last survey. Please, if you lose in surveys, do not use justice as an effervescent agent. We are not going to participate in experiments at the expense of justice. We care a lot about justice. [[Applauds]] In conclusion, I would like to thank you for your letter of farewell to the Sub-Commission's strategy and assure you of what you already know, Mr Santos: no one else we will miss you in the work of that justice strategy. They're still on time. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u145	Thank you very much. For the Socialist Group, Mr Campo Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u146	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are debating a motion following an urgent appeal to the Government concerning the matter of justice proposed by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. We do so under rule 184, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the House. That is to say, we do so through a debate on a non-legislative proposal. I say this not because I believe it is necessary to remember the Rules of Procedure of the House, but because I think that we need to focus on what the motion put to us today by the Confederal Group of the European People's Party, if it succeeds, which is 'to urge the Government to'. We are presented with fourteen very heterogeneous measures aimed, for example, at preserving the independence of the General Council of the Judiciary with regard to appointments and instructions not to proceed with the prosecution. They are also aimed at ensuring that the Government does not instruct or direct the investigation to prosecutors and also that it does not touch popular action because the Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions has to be touched before. Others say that it would be good for prison institutions to join the organizational units of the Ministry of Justice. Others argue that it is necessary to make a package to modify free justice, without specifying exactly the lines; that there must be greater parity between men and women within the justice sector; restorative justice - Mr Santos, be careful because I will make some comment on this matter - and in this same block argue that it is necessary to reform and pay attention to the courts investigating corruption. Similarly, reference is made to a whole package of budget measures, curiously those of the 2009 Socialist Party. In addition, the General Council of the Judiciary must be consulted on its choice and operation, as well as on the selection of judges, continuing initial training and the calls for objections. And finally, language law. Gentlemen of the Confederal Group, if we were not so tired, I would like to use the method of socratic irony or even the chevedesque one and tell you that your motion seems to me to be fabled, constructive and tremendously loyal. But I prefer to stay in the Paladin Roman and tell them that they have lacked good faith because they have had bad faith behaviors with their attitude, which is incoherence in behavior. You participated in the Committee on Justice in December 2016, in which, unanimously - that is, you were - it was agreed to ask this plenary to set up a subcommittee to set the strategy and modernise justice. In February 2016, this plenary adopted unanimously, assent and without debate - and you were - the creation of this subcommittee. The subcommission has been developing its many jobs, listening to judges, prosecutors, lawyers, prosecutors, social graduates, civil servants' groups, trade unions and so on - also on restorative justice, Mr Santos - for a long time. We are now in the process of drawing up the conclusions in order to give this House an opinion so that it can be adopted at a later stage and thus fix these lines. Well, you have participated in everything, you have even participated in the request for the extension and, suddenly, in November 2017, we learned from a press conference that you leave the Commission without knowing why, because there has been no reason for discrepancy. We can argue, we can talk. Mr. Santos, your restorative justice is coming. Do you remember how many hours and how many minutes we spent to get the expert you wanted us to listen to, who, by the way, had been passed the deadline for a personal subject and yet the Commission understood it and we gave you extraordinary entrance to the meetings, remember how much we liked it? Where's all that? And now, what do you want, to save it with one: to urge the government to, to pose restorative justice? No, I think the rules of the game are marked and we have to comply with them, because it is the only way that an absolutely drinking product will come out, because that is what the citizens are demanding of us. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group is not going to vote against them, because they will certainly make up a good package of measures, but, careful!, we leave the door open to them with abstention so that they can go back to that path that they should not have left behind. Society has put us here so that in a consensual way we can touch on those essential elements that are part of people's fundamental rights, and effective judicial protection in a reasonable time I can assure you that it is and that it is worth it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u147	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Molinero Hoyos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I know it's late and I'm going to try to be as brief as possible. I rise to this rostrum to set the position of the People's Parliamentary Group on the motion put forward by United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, but also to congratulate the Minister of Justice on the magnificent work he has been doing at the head of his department and to reiterate our support for him, for two fundamental reasons. The first, for its commitment to defending citizens and modernising justice. The second, because of its dialogueal attitude, always legitimately seeking consensus on any Government initiative. Mr Santos, although we are no longer surprised by your party, I do want to tell you that my group recognizes the perplexity of the bad faith and disloyalty with which you are acting with this motion and with the interpellation of which you bring cause. Mr Santos, it is pointless to set up, with your agreement and that of all the parliamentary groups, a subcommittee of justice, to work all the groups days and hours and, when we are finishing this Commission with the final conclusions - one of the blocks, the first, is already closed, with the agreement of your group - get up from the Commission and say, putting a pilgrim excuse, that the Minister does not have a justice plan. It's a real disloyalty. [[Applauds]] At this point in the legislature, we already know what their strategies are like. The strategy they have is to deny their responsibilities to the citizens and to those involved in the subcommission. You don't care about work, you don't care about citizens, you don't care about the quality of justice, the only thing you pull is the politics of posture, the television gesture, the headlines. They are not interested in modernising justice at all. It is a lack of truth to say that they leave the Commission because the ministry lacks any legislative plan. If the first intervention of the Minister of Justice had been read in December 2016, they would see the error of both the motion and the inquiry they made in their day. I say that they would discover the mistake because I am not just talking about the six main pillars on which the reform of justice should be based, but also - and I am going to say this literally - because, for the sake of that consensus that was discussed at the beginning, Mr Catalá said that he offered his strongest commitment and full willingness to reach agreements by working together, and he also undertook not to undertake structural reforms of the Administration of Justice without first knowing the conclusions of the subcommission, in order to seek everyone's input on the major issues. That is to say, you are criticising the Minister for the dialogue and consensus position he has shown since the first day, waiting precisely for the conclusions and not acting, as he legitimately could do, through government initiatives. That's what you're doing. That is why I believe that, in view of this attitude, you must explain to all the members of the Committee on Justice and to all those who have appeared - as the spokesman of the Socialist Group who has spoken before me - the hours and time we have devoted and which is not worth anything to you. It's just that you're saying that all the commitment and experience that you've put in your audience doesn't matter at all. That is the position you come to adopt. Ladies and gentlemen, you have referred in one of the points to the failure to grant the investigation of crimes to the prosecutor's office prior to the adoption of the organic regulation of the prosecutor's office. Well, you've been in the subcommission. You know that point is already agreed. But it was also agreed that the prosecutor was approved to be the investigator of the cases, but that the agreement to a prior or simultaneous reform of the organic status of the prosecutor's office vis-à-vis the executive branch was suspended. On another point, you say that the Government does not interfere with judicial independence. Look, when you're talking about judicial independence, you put the democrats on top of your hair. Legal operators are given real tremors. [[Applauds]] I'll tell you why. Because by remembering the programmatic document that you delivered in your day to the Socialist Party - do you remember that? because not so long ago either -, they came to say that those people such as the president of the Constitutional Court, the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, the Attorney General of the State and the Advocate General of the State, should be appointed according to criteria of merit, capacity and commitment to the draft change that they should lead. And in line they said that they demanded that those people be committed to the Government's agenda of change. Take independence! Is that the independence you want? Is that the independence you wanted to bring us to the subcommission? [[Applauds]] I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, I will vote against this motion, but I do not want to conclude by appealing to the responsibility of your parliamentary group and telling them to return to the subcommittee; that all those proposals that you have made in this motion will lead them to the subcommittee so that we can study them and discuss them all together. Nothing more, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-12-12-CD171212.u149	Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and ten minutes of the night.
