ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We begin with the item on the agenda corresponding to the validation or repeal of the Royal Decree-Law 4/2017, of 24 February, which modifies the regime of the workers for the provision of the port service of handling of goods... [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats and remain silent. Validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 4/2017 of 24 February, amending the system of workers for the provision of port cargo handling service, implementing the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 11 December 2014 in Case C-576/13, infringement procedure 2009/4052. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Development has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear in this House to submit for your consideration the validation of Royal Decree-Law 4/2017, which was approved by the Council of Ministers on 24 February. This royal decree-law amends the regime of workers for the provision of the port service of handling of goods and gives effect to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 11 December 2014. This judgment condemns the Kingdom of Spain for considering that the legal regime in which the port service for the handling of goods is established contravenes Article 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Union on freedom of establishment. This is because it imposes two obligations on companies wishing to carry out the activity. The first is that they have to participate in the capital of an anonymous society of management of port estibadores. The second is the obligation to recruit the staff of that Sagep. Or in other words, what the judgment says is that in this country a company must be able to hire its workers freely and that in addition a person who is unemployed - whether male or female, in Algeciras, Bilbao or Valencia - can also have a job opportunity, if he meets the appropriate training requirements. Today I suppose there will be a long debate about this royal decree-law and many things will be said, but in essence what this royal decree-law says is simple and plainly this: that in Spain companies can freely hire their workers in the field of the greenhouse. This has led to a situation in the sector that is supported by reports from different agencies and that talk about lack of productivity. I will not focus on this but I will highlight a couple of data and that these costs are far above the labour costs of other logistic activities and have a very important weight in the whole of the goods, about 50% in the handling, unloading and loading of these goods. Secondly, I would like to say that the adoption and processing of this royal decree-law has not been the adoption and processing of any royal decree-law, for three reasons. First of all, because we are not faced with a rule that the Spanish Government approves for a political decision free of any conditioning - however obviously we agree on what I have just mentioned in relation to the power that companies have to be able to hire their workers freely - but we are obliged as a result of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union condemning the Kingdom of Spain, and it is therefore this Congress of Deputies, this House, which is obliged to change the law because of the existence of that conviction. The Government had done its part, the Government had done what it had to do and the Government was obliged to do what it had done. It is now up to him to respond to this Congress, which has the same responsibility as the Government, because, I insist, we are talking about a sentence against the Kingdom of Spain. It therefore has the same responsibility to prevent this from being the first breach of the Treaty on European Union by the Kingdom of Spain, as well as the important fine - I shall now refer to this - which, if this royal decree is not validated and the second sentence is dropped, will have to be met by all the Spaniards. The second reason why it is different from the processing of other types of royal decree-laws is urgency. As I have just mentioned, the second sentence is about to fall, as the Commissioner for Transport of the European Union herself pointed out at this Congress of Deputies when she met with the various political groups in the Committee on Development. The fine will amount, on the one hand, to a lump sum of EUR 27,522 per day from the date of the first sentence until today, if we approve and validate the actual decree - although, if necessary, there would be a withdrawal by the Commission - or until the day on which the second sentence falls. In any case, at the moment that debt is already close to 23 million euros, which we are still willing not to have to pay if the royal decree-law is validated. On the other hand, it will entail a coercive fine, starting from this judgment which is about to fall, of EUR 134,107 per day. It's 134,000 every day. It is important that we understand that this will stop only when the legal change takes place. I have heard on many occasions that this fine by the Court of Justice of the European Union amounted to EUR 23 million. This is so until today, but it can be one hundred, it can be one thousand and it can be what you, ladies and gentlemen, want it to be, until the legal amendment is finally approved in this House. What we do know, because we have already received the written reply from both the services of the European Commission and from the same Commissioner for Transport, is that to validate today this royal decree-law would avoid the sentence, because from the cabinet that runs the Commissioner would raise the proposal of withdrawal and, therefore, we would not have to pay the fine that we now become, nor of course the coercive fine that would come later. Therefore, this urgency also differentiates the processing of this royal decreeley from others who may come to this House. The third of the reasons is the ability to negotiate the terms of the royal decreeley. As you know, in a real decree-law of another kind, the government has room and capacity to maneuver with political groups and with social and economic sectors. In this case, there is a clear, decisive and compelling limitation on the part of the European Commission, which is the guarantor of the Treaty and responsible for the decision to dismiss and which sets out the limits on which this royal decree law should be framed. Therefore, the Government has not had the margin or freedom that it can establish in other cases to freely decide its terms. The process has been permanently marked by the very limitations established by the European Commission, as can be seen from the numerous meetings, letters, letters and reports, to which I will also refer. We have heard over the course of these months that if the European Commission did not have the capacity to do this, if it was not the one that it had to ensure and had the power to give up, that if this was a matter of officials. I believe that none of this was true, and it has also been ratified by the Commissioner herself, who has publicly confirmed that the process that is following the Commission's capacity is in line with what the Government has been holding from the very beginning. In any case, what this royal decree-law presents is strict compliance with the judgment, as the European Commission itself has stated, and the maximal flexibility of its terms in favour of workers. I will then talk a little bit about the process that has led to this royal decree-law; a process of dialogue, because although it has been said that negotiations have been opened in recent weeks or months, the truth is that this negotiation process has been taking place for two years now with the social partners and with the business sector, with the aim of reaching an agreement, within, of course, the limitations of the enforcement of the judgment itself and the European Commission. In the first place, as early as 2012, two years before the judgement, from the letter of emplacement received by the Government and with the aim of avoiding its referral to the court by the Commission, the first calls to trade unions and employers were made to try to reach consensus on the replies to the Commission. But this possibility was hampered by the belief of some that the Court of Justice of the European Union was actually going to ratify the legality of the Spanish model of estiba and its compatibility with European law. Finally, as you know, this was not so. Secondly, in the years 2015 and 2016, after the 2014 judgment, numerous meetings, both formal and informal, have been held with social partners and the business sector. Proposals have been exchanged, these proposals have been analysed legally by the State services, they have been referred to the European Commission, and this is important to highlight because it is true that there were documents in which there was a certain agreement, but it is also true that many of the terms of those documents, once they were transferred to the European Commission, were deleted because they were understood not to comply with the rules and to violate the content of the judgment itself; in short, because they continued to maintain de facto many of the aspects of the current status quo of the estua. Therefore, the negotiation has been taking place over these two years to try to reach an agreement. It has also been said that a new agreement is about to be reached and that the Ministry of Development has been acting at that time. This has been denied by the employer himself, by Anesco, and in any case the terms on which this agreement was being established were not very different from other agreements, and we already know what the European Commission's response to its content has been. I would therefore like to insist that there have been many meetings, about twenty or thirty formal and informal contacts, with the various parts of the sector by the Secretary of State, by the Ministry, in order to try to reach an agreement that would fit within the scope of the judgment. Finally, with the start of this process too, meetings have been held in which I myself have had the opportunity to participate. The conclusion of this whole long process of negotiation and agreement, I repeat, is that there were parties that remained in a number of aspects that were considered essential and that the Commission reiterated over and over again that it was not possible to incorporate into this royal decree-law; this is important to note. To give an example, the case linked to the registration, the quota list, a list to which companies have to resort in a mandatory or preferential way for recruitment. Throughout this time, the European Commission has been keen on this matter. There can be no restriction on recruitment by companies. Therefore, although it has also been maintained for a time that registration was possible, that the Commission could allow it, it was not until we drew up the report in which the European Commission clearly established that such registration would not be permitted when another type of strategy was started, changing the name of the register to another type of names, a mutation in the name that does not change the matter. It is called registration, list, pool of workers or whatever you want to call it, which is absolutely clear, as the Commissioner in this House also explained, is that any kind of list that exists has to be a list that companies voluntarily go to in order to be able to hire freely. In this respect, I would like to recall that the Royal Decree-Law provides for the port employment centres, which are specialised ETTs for the port sector and which are in themselves a non-quota list. To include this in a real decree-law has also not been easy since the European Commission states in its report - it even came to be said that it had a psychological component - that under no circumstances would it allow it to have a differential treatment from the legal point of view of what can be a normal ETT. There has also been talk - perhaps later in the debate - of the case of other countries, it has been said that in other countries, particularly in the case of Belgium, things that are not covered here by the Royal Decree-Law, etc. are allowed. We have explained over and over again that having as these countries have differentiated facts, the end point is for all the same. This has been emphasized by the Commissioner for Transport in a strong way when she held the meeting with the trade unions. Whatever the initial situation of these countries, the final objective of the process is the same for all and it is in that Spain is through this royal decree-law, and no differentiation is going to be allowed in the process. On the other hand - and I say this in case it comes out later in the debate - there is the subrogation that has been referred to in a communiqué this past week within the port services regulation, making it known that this regulation allowed the subrogation. I would like to make it clear, as far as this is concerned in the debate, that this being true, it is also true that there is a phrase in that regulation which specifically excludes the estiva sector in this matter. In addition to this whole process of negotiation and dialogue, since January and before the presentation of the decree we have had an open dialogue with many representatives of the political groups, many of whom are present here. I would like to thank everyone sincerely for the willingness they have always had to be able to talk to us and to share their views. We have devoted a great deal of time, many hours to maintaining these meetings, these talks, and let me draw a special conclusion, and it is that in none of them has a specific issue been addressed about the content of the royal decree-law that should be amended or deleted, but it has gone to other kinds of considerations, some, unfortunately, outside the content of the royal decree-law. In no case has the need to modify or delete any of the contents of this royal decree-law been fully addressed. In that situation, I would also like to stress that the Commissioner's presence in this House was important in demonstrating the ratification of the process carried out by the Government and the need for validation by political groups. What does the royal decree-law contain? The royal decree-law is very simple, it has practically nothing to do with the structure, so we insist over and over again that it does not go beyond the strict enforcement of the sentence, because it does not enter into any other kind of considerations, it simply abides by that sentence in its terms and therefore has only four articles. The first of these sets out the object of the Royal Decree-Law; the second establishes strict compliance with the judgment, i.e. the non-obligation of companies to participate in social capital and freedom of recruitment by workers; the third defines the training requirements for them to be objective and transparent, which are not other than having an academic degree in vocational training or the recognition of professional experience through a certificate of professionalism that is regulated in the existing decree, or alternatively - and this is one of the issues that was obtained from the European Commission - to be able to certify a hundred working days in the goods handling service, which would provide guarantees for those people who at present in Spain were in the sector and could not be accredited with the previous certificates; that is, 100 per cent of the current workers were released. On the other hand, Article 4 provides for the establishment of those port employment centres to which I have referred. In addition, I should like to point out that some flexibility clauses have been included. One of them, for example, has been the transition period. It initially proposed to do so in seven years and the Commission said no. Finally, in a final effort, he went to a transitional period of four years and the Commission wrote to us saying that he would not allow four years, that he would only admit a maximum of three years, that in 2016 no legal change decision could be made given the situation in which the Government was in, since the measures envisaged in the judgment had not been taken and therefore he understood that it was a year that had already passed. Consequently, only a three-year transition period was allowed. Finally, an important issue is the assumption by the port authorities of all that has to do with the workers' labour liabilities; this serves precisely to stimulate the incorporation of these workers into the business sector and so that there is no loss of competitiveness in relation to other companies that can arrive at the ports in the future, assuming as the port authorities that fund and having the ability to maneuver to meet those obligations without conditioning the levels of investment that are included in the ports. And here I would like to make a mention, because just as I said that none of the groups entered into any of the considerations regarding the content of the actual-decree law, it is true that there was a group that made a very specific one about whether or not it had to be the port authorities that had to deal with these obligations or, on the contrary, it would have to be another agency or entity belonging to the State. This was the only consideration that has been received in this regard. In this way, the European Commission, in its visit to Spain through the Commissioner on 6 and 7 March, urged compliance with this judgment, urged the validation of the real-decree law and warned about the consequences of non-validation. And he also set a date, which was not set by the Government, and that is that as he understood that he had stopped the clock for that first part of the fine that is already running until the actual-decree law was finally passed, he also indicated that that clock would be re-launched as of 24 March. Therefore, on that date we will again be facing a fine every day as a result of non-compliance with the judgment. Now I will say a few words that I believe are important about collective bargaining. From the outset, the Government had done its duty to comply with the sentence; and, on the other hand, it had urged trade unions and employers to sit down to deal with all matters relating to collective bargaining, taking into account also that the actual decree-law provided for a period of up to one year to reach agreement within the framework of those collective agreements. The framework for collective bargaining is, without a doubt, the right place to reach an agreement as is the case with any other economic sector in this country, it is the place where agreements between trade unions and employers are reached. At this point I would especially like to thank you for the tireless work done by the Ministry of Employment and its minister here, who has spent many hours and many efforts to facilitate this collective negotiation; of course this minister thanks you in a special way because throughout this whole process, which has not been easy, he has embraced our ministry with his help, with his cooperation and that of his entire team. And I would also like to thank the mediator for his work, which began as a difficult task and ended up being impossible. That it's become impossible, we've all taken care of it. I would like to mention that, although there have been dialogues at that table and some general agreement has been reached, there were two elements that from the beginning made it impossible for a concrete agreement to be signed. The first had to do with the proven existence - it is not an opinion - of low yields in the different ports. From this the ministry has accredited a long list of information that comes from the ports themselves regarding the reduction of yields; with the losses that have occurred in the different harbour authorities, for example, at the rate of 5 million euros daily in a significant part of February; with the diversions of ships to other terminals; with the situation that they have had to face many of the enterprises, and some have made it public and they have transmitted it, is the case of Algeciras, the case of Maerks, where there has been a diversion and a reduction of the activity about 30%. On the other hand, I would like to point out that this company has, in a statement, ensured continuity in employment and with the current working conditions for all workers, as it has publicly stated. In others there have been reductions in the movement of containers; in short, cost increases associated with these low yields; also increase in freight for goods originating in or destined for Spain and a complicated situation that has already caused no less damage to the economy as a whole. This situation was an obstacle to a part of the negotiating table, which was the one that was suffering from that action. But above all the biggest obstacle - I have to say it clearly - was that from the very beginning the negative position was publicly announced to validate this royal decree-law by some political group. This is a very simple thing to understand, and you will understand it very well: if you were in a monopolistic situation like the one currently in the greenhouse sector - it is not because I say so, it is so and it has also been described by the European authorities - and the groups with your position are moving you that you can keep that situation, why would you have to make no assignment? It doesn't make much sense; if you're in a situation where you're guaranteed a number of conditions, why are you going to take a step towards a purported search for other aspects such as job maintenance if you can have everything right now? Because that position guarantees them 100 percent of the conditions associated with that situation. This devilish loop that occurred when the 'no' caused no steps to be taken forward at the table and no steps to be taken forward at the table endorsed the position of the 'no' inevitably led us towards the presentation of the royal decree-law in the terms in which it is. In the same way, many voices have said that if the Royal Decree-Law had been passed earlier or passed today and definitively validated, the negotiation would be immediate because under those conditions it would be safe to take care of the important thing, which is the maintenance of employment. And to all this, there is the penalty of 134,000 euros per day that will fall on the Spanish as a whole. What is clear is that there has been more than enough time to be able to conclude an agreement in terms that would guarantee for all the maintenance of employment. As this has not occurred, as this agreement has not finally occurred, the Government has put forward a document in which several things are precisely intended, but the essential thing is the maintenance of employment. As that announced situation that this royal decree-law could not go forward clearly conditioned that part of the table would take a step forward to be able to close an agreement, it was the Government that, in one more effort, after having delayed the adoption of this royal decree-law in the Council of Ministers a week after having also delayed the validation of this royal decree in this House, took a step with the presentation yesterday by the Government - whose presence, according to the mediator, had already been announced the previous day - of a document that has four essential points. The first is the continuity in employment of the current port workers. This matter, which will undoubtedly be of concern to the trade unions, which is of concern to the Government, and I am also sure that it concerns all political groups, is established as follows: the companies holding licences of the port service of handling goods, when they leave the anonymous societies of management of port docks, the Sagep, will be subrogated as new employers in the ownership of the labor relationship, as well as in the rights and obligations that are determined in the collective negotiation that the Sagep have with respect to the port docks linked to them. Subrogation shall also be considered to occur when the port worker is incorporated into a port employment centre set up by the above-mentioned undertakings holding the licences of the port cargo handling service. The conditions under which subrogation will take effect, i.e. the obligations and rights of subrogated port workers and new employers, will be determined in the sectoral collective agreement at the state level. In the absence of agreement, the new employer will be subordinated to wage and social security rights and obligations. For its part, the criteria for the distribution of the total staff of port dockers among the different companies holding licences of the port service of handling of goods, of the Sagep that are operating in the respective port, will be determined in the collective agreements of each port. In the event that the undertakings holding licences of the port service of handling goods decide to remain in the Sagep, and that therefore no subrogation occurs, the ownership of the employment relationship will not be affected. Similarly, the ownership of the employment relationship will also not be affected in the case of port workers hired under the common labour regime by the holders of the licences of the handling service of goods belonging to the Sagep. Without prejudice to the foregoing and to the freedom of the parties to determine the content of collective agreements, of course, concrete measures of internal flexibility will have to be articulated in collective agreements in the greenhouse sector in order to cope with the fluctuations in demand in the greenhouse undertakings while preserving employment. That is, ladies and gentlemen, the guarantee that the 100 % of employment will be maintained. There is a second point where it is a question of ensuring the productivity of ports in an agreed manner between trade union and business organisations; here the business sector considers that it must have the capacity to organize its work, the work of its company, which seems reasonable. Thirdly, there are the aids, because in addition to this guarantee provided for in the first point, this proposal, which has been put on the table, sets out a number of aids for port workers. The agreement says the following - I think it is important to take into account, with regard to the validation of the royal decree-law refers -: The abolition of the previous regime of management of workers for the provision of the port service of handling of goods will, in order to facilitate an orderly transit process, involve the granting of public aid to workers who voluntarily terminate their contract, either because of their age or because of the damage resulting in their adaptation to domestic law from the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union. In particular, the port estibadores will be able to benefit those who remain sixty months or less to access the ordinary retirement on the date of validation of the Royal Decree-Law 4/2017, of 24 February, amending the regime of the workers for the provision of the port service of handling of goods, in compliance with the judgment of the court. Workers receiving such assistance are also guaranteed the necessary social security contributions, which will be made effective by signing the relevant special agreements up to the statutory retirement age. The workers of course concerned have to accept themselves voluntarily, and they have to express it individually. Finally, such aid shall consist of a subsidy equivalent to 70 % of the average wage bill for all the concepts for the six months preceding the fall, 70 %. I would like to point out that this very important effort by the Government contributes to facilitating that agreement and of course that 100 per cent guarantee of job maintenance, and that it is a very important effort. Finally, there is a fourth point that is important to us and I believe that it is also important to trade unions and employers, which is the setting up of a monitoring committee. Why is it important? Because that guarantees the parties that the Government is going to be there, that this is not the end of any process, that it is going to monitor and follow up on each and every agreement that is finally signed. And that is why the Government has the will to set up this commission, to ensure that each and every commitment made is fulfilled. We must therefore say that with this proposal for an agreement that should be closed at that table, that it will have to have the regulatory provision that it has to have in the terms in which it is agreed to comply with what is reached at that table, I repeat, this proposal has been put forward with that guarantee of maintaining one hundred per cent of employment. We are perfectly aware - because there are also many media that are moving it today, we have heard it on the radio and we have read it in some newspapers - that this effort by the Government is extraordinary; some criticize that it is an effort that can generate some discrimination against other workers, that the Government - it is said - is going far beyond what it should be, that it is doing more than what it should do, and I do not know whether this is true or not, but what I do know is that with this effort we get that guarantee and that of course it is an unprecedented effort that none of the other workers in the private sector, who have completely different conditions, enjoy. And if we do it because we are convinced of it, if we do it because we really think that this effort makes it very easy for that agreement to be reached, and if today that real decree-law is validated in the terms in which it is collected or in very similar terms, with that agreement if it is not intended to be anything other than the maintenance of employment, there is an absolute guarantee that the restructuring will take place with that calm on the part of the various parties. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen - I am finishing - we are faced with a real decree-law which, first of all, complies with the Union's operating treaty, and this, although I have not mentioned it, is also relevant, because as a country it is our duty to do so, as a country we are obliged to avoid that second condemnation of the Kingdom of Spain. This of law enforcement I believe is shared by all, must be shared by all, so we are faced with the necessary provision of a legislative instrument that avoids a sentence to the Kingdom of Spain. Secondly, this royal decree-law is going to give stability to the sector, and this is important, because I have given some data of what is happening in the ports, but this is not the most worrying being how serious and worrying, but the worrying are the deviations, so far transitory, which in some cases can become definitive, because this would result in the permanent loss of employment in this case, because if one of these large companies decides to relocate and decides to use other ports where it has better situations, more competitive or where there is no simple conflict, it would produce a problem for the whole economy of the country. That is why we continue to call for accountability so that these situations do not occur in ports and that the normal operation is not affected by the various companies that are currently operating. Thirdly, because it avoids the fine, ladies and gentlemen. This argument is also very simple to understand. If this House does not approve a legal amendment, the fine falls, and if the fine falls, it is 134,000 euros each day. Make yourself the equivalent you want to do with education, social services and health, with the incorporation you want to make of jobs or any other matter, is a lot of money from all the Spaniards and we will pay for all the Spaniards. There are therefore urgent reasons to avoid such a fine. It is not a voluntary urgency of the Government, it is an urgency that the Commissioner herself has made clear in this House, it is very important to do so and to do so quickly, she has warned of what the consequences are, and we have had a permanent dialogue from the outset for more than two years, and a repeated willingness of the Government to reach an agreement. Over and over again we have made efforts, over and over again, to reach that agreement, of course within the margins and limits that we have set by the European Commission. For us, it is as important as the above to comply with the judgment, to provide guarantees for the maintenance of employment, and we are absolutely convinced that this is perfectly feasible with the proposal that the Government has made and with the package of aid that the Ministry of Employment has put on the table and that they will have to be articulated with the rank that they have to have through the Ministry of Employment itself. Yesterday, and with this in mind, we heard from the President many things about reforms, competitiveness, unemployment, people who do not have access to the labour market and equal opportunities, but we are faced with the need to comply with the sentence and with a commitment to maintaining employment as there probably has not been another, at least in our recent history, for a sector of our country's economy. Therefore, to say yes to this validation today is to fulfil our obligation as a country and to prevent a very important fine that will have to be paid by all the Spaniards in their pocket. It is of course to encourage our companies in Spain to be able to hire freely, because voting does not happen and preventing the breakdown of that monopoly which we are bound by the judgment would mean maintaining the impossibility of these companies to be able to hire freely, and also for other people who are unemployed to have the opportunity to have access to that job and to maintain working conditions. Now, if what we are talking about is maintaining another set of conditions which are associated with the monopoly situation, but which are not those of maintaining employment, then we are talking about something else. The government is doing what it is doing, on the one hand, to offer a real decree-law that responds to more than twenty or thirty different meetings with the European Commission and that meets the judgment and that we must do so urgently, and on the other hand, to offer a proposal for job maintenance that gives calm to the sector and that manages to maintain a process and a restructuring project with these full guarantees. If what is at stake, I insist, is to maintain another set of conditions associated with the current situation, then obviously the Government is not at this time. It seems, one of the Members told me, that it is not thirty-seven or thirty-nine years since a royal decree-law was passed, and that in 2006 there was a case of a non-validation of a royal decree-law. I don't know if this is the case or not. I don't remember whether or not it happened. I trust it won't happen. Anyway, what we do have clear is that, even if that fact occurred, and it's not the nicest thing that can happen to one, especially when a legislature just started,... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u3	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u4	... It can be said that the Government has done what it could, of course with all the effort and the will of the world to reach an agreement. In that sense, preventing the Spanish from having to pay that fine, achieving compliance with the obligation we have as a government and offering a guarantee for the maintenance of employment are more than sufficient reasons to ask their lords to support this royal decree-law. If at the time of taking the vote decision - during these days we have heard a lot, and even some have transferred to the public the reasons that might be behind the non-validation - someone thinks that they are going to hurt the government or they are going to give it a flap, they are wrong. There's no such damage. We have a clear conscience because we are fulfilling our obligation; the damage would be done to the Spaniards, who are going to have to pay that fine, those who are outside the House and of course us. That is why I ask you to think not so much of the Government, but of them, when you vote. Think with a high eye, with political responsibility and with a sense of state. I ask you to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u5	Thank you very much. He has requested the use of the turn against the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Mr Alonso Cantorné has the floor for this.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Before we begin I want to greet the guests who accompany us today in the rostrum, to the world of the greenhouse, comrades and companions. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea and the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, standing, looking at the public gallery.- Several guests in the public gallery make different gestures]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u7	One second, Your Honor. I want to remind the people who occupy the stands that they cannot make any manifestation. Thank you very much. Go on, Mr. Cantorné.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u8	I was also going to greet Mrs Báñez, the only government representative who accompanied Mr De la Serna, but unfortunately it seems to me that she is leaving. [[Laughter and applause]] Minister, here we are finally debating in Congress a decree that is wild for us, which can blow up a strategic sector in our country, without social agreement, with last-minute bullshit to achieve a parliamentary agreement that can surely also be missed. We are extremely concerned about their irresponsibility and their way of understanding the world of work, breaking into in a bad way to impose decrees at the service of the usual. That is why we will be demanding political responsibilities from now on. Yesterday we saw how they were trying to get parliamentary support by changing chromes: I approve of budgets in the Basque Country if you approve of the decree of the greenhouse. And to know what else he's been offering around. Some told him to go down to the sand to negotiate and collected mud by transferring to the noble sphere of politics the principles of the market square, which is not conducive to dealing with matters on which the lives of thousands of workers and their dignity depend. No wonder we maintain that you represent the worst of old politics. And not only that, they let themselves fall at the last minute in a technical meeting between employers and trade unions in the sector, accompanied by the comrades of the press, knowing that without the trade union representatives, who were not present - to whom they had not warned - they were not going to achieve anything. They were just looking for the picture to meet the orange condition. Do you know how I'm told this summer decree is known? The decree of the slap. Palmada among the people who work in the ports means what in the colloquial language is known as 'the thing gets chunga'. You bring us a decree that is a slap in the face of the stoves and stoves, of the trade unions, of the companies, of the rest of the parliamentary groups and I would almost say - as far as we can see - even of your own Government, if this House finally dares to reject it. We do not understand why they go beyond what the Court of Justice of the European Union has ruled on. We do not understand why in a country that still suffers about 20% unemployment and an unbearable precariousness you want to open the door to redundancies and the deterioration of employment in our ports. They account for 60 % of exports and 85 % of imports from Spain, 20 % of gross domestic product. We do not understand what interest there can be when they also have no social support and the parliamentarian is costing them so much to take this forward. Mr De la Serna, you wanted to be very cunning, more cunning than anyone else, using tavern tricks, taking advantage of an official journey to which your and your allies - oh, surprise! - do not aim, with sick deputies and even with family emergencies to win this anyway. For I would like to inform you from now on that we are here all the Members of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left and of the Compromis. [[Applauds]] Teresa, Marta and Pam are landing. Thank you, Teresa, Pam and Marta. [[Applauds]] As you said, Minister, your attitude of tahur is compounded by that of irresponsible. You, Minister, and Mr GómezPomar are exposing us to a loss of 50 million a day. This is what the report itself points out, which we believe has inspired the decree drawn up by PriceWaterhouse Coopers, and which was commissioned by the platform of investors of Spanish ports, the real winners if this decree finally comes forward. We don't understand all this. Or so. Ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that you read the decree carefully and see how what eventually nests in it is an offer to international financial groups and speculators, maximum shareholders and terminal owners in all Spanish ports, those that we euphemistically call investors: the possibility of getting rid of their workers on account of public funds, on account of everyone's money, of precarious employment and working conditions, and how they usually legislate for those who have the most at the expense of the rest. I suggest, ladies and gentlemen, that you review the biographical notes that the Ministry of Development has on its website. You will see there how Mr GómezPomar, Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Housing and President of Enaire, was director of the public sector innovation centre at PriceWaterhouse Coopers, before also being President of Renfe. They will check how José Manuel Vargas, president of AENA - and we already know what happens in AENA too - and the minister Luis de Guindos himself have also worked for this consultant. Casualty or plot? In 2013, being Mr. GómezPomar president of Renfe, 2,286,000 euros were paid to PriceWaterhouse Coopers for the adaptation - the title said - of Renfe Operator's financial economic systems to the new corporate model. The way we operate is slightly familiar. On the stove they call it trenching, we call it holding the rotating doors hard. That project had to come out just as well as the merger of Bankia and the Galician boxes or the Oscar envelopes, because the National Commission on Markets and Competition fined Renfe 65 million for limiting competition in rail freight transport. But the most curious thing about the case, I would say almost nothing, is that Mr. Gómez-Pomar between 2005 and 2012 was the executive director of the Fundación de Estudios de Económica Aplicada, Fedea. It was precisely Fedea who denounced Renfe's lack of competition in goods. What a coincidence! And who are Fedea's patrons, do we wonder? Who are they? Avertis, Fundación ACS, BBVA, La Caixa, Iberdrola, Banco Popular, Bankia, Banco de Sabadell, Telefónica, Repsol, Fundación Ramón Areces, Banco de Santander and we can still continue. Casualty or plot? You, Minister, if you follow the dictates of these people when it comes to reforming the greenhouse, facing trade unions, society and Parliament, it is that - I am mistaken to say it - you are an arsonist or irresponsible. Minister, it may be difficult for you to understand this, but labour disputes in democracy are not desirable to resolve them by decree, while your predecessor - behind me - who had an absolute majority in this House had the wisdom not to impose a royal decree-law without the prior agreement of the parties. Now, you come and present this decree to us with many warnings; yes, yes, many warnings, but few negotiations. He doesn't even have the support of his usual allies in Congress. We know that it is protected in the fine - we have heard it too - that today it reaches 23 million, and that its decree meets all the requirements - indeed - proposed by the European Union. Yes, yes, but I would also add those proposed by JP Morgan. You expect us to believe that the reform that you want to impose will benefit the citizens of Spain, and we as always ask ourselves: to what Spain? At 1 % or 99 %? [[Applauds]] You tell us that you have been negotiating for two years and we ask you to have the minutes and the agendas to show us how many meetings you have held on this subject, and whether you have forwarded the union proposals to Commissioner Bulc. Our group demands that you deactivate this decree and that you feel you are really negotiating, as the parties have been asking you for a long time, with conviction and not to make the paripé like yesterday. Do not pass the burden on your partner - who has indeed left - Mrs Báñez, and assume your responsibility directly. Now, Mr. Mariano Rajoy - I am addressing you, wherever you are, I don't know whether in plasma or here - the interest in being the foreman of the oligarchy is putting the economy of this country at stake. It is not new, of course, we already know him well; this conflict involves the umpteenth turn of the nut in his way of governing. The estiba sector recognizes - it recognizes, and we too - that its regulation is better, but they are not willing - and here they also have the support of the Confederal Group of United We Can-In Comú Ponde-In Marea - that the wages of this country are always guilty of all evils. People know that the so-called vulture funds seek to break the strength of the workers, their unity, their organization. They need to deregulate, reduce wages, cut to sell and speculate. They destroy our productive fabric to the greatest glory of the huge profits that are always for four. They have tried - they try - to confront the workers against the workers, but on this occasion they will not do well. We can't escape that behind the stove they will try other deregulations: the public service, teachers, doctors, nurses, social workers, police. Or sales at a retail price of public companies such as Renfe, Adif, AENA, Post Offices, and so many others that are already disembarking big shareholders and speculators to which you put the red carpet, like that of your friends, that of the Oscars. We have to ask ourselves this one more time, why are you doing this? Casualty or plot? Precisely you carry with blood against sectors that are part of the legacy of our country's trade union and democratic struggle. It is precisely with those who prevent wages from falling even further into misery; misery to which you want to bring the oligarchy which you faithfully represent - yes, yes - in this Parliament with decrees like this. Mr Rajoy, after perhaps today's passage into the parliamentary history of this country for not validating a royal decree-law for the first time in decades, you have two options: either to make Mr De la Serna or Mr Gómez-Pomar resign, but someone, at the highest level, must assume the political responsibilities of this hussy, of this savage decree. Do as you please, Mr. Rajoy, but deactivate. Return to this Chamber with a royal decree-law that abides by the European judgment; yes, yes, we all agree, that abides by the European judgment, but that it faithfully collects what the social partners agree. The Confederal Group of the United People's Party is at the side of the productive economy and the greenhouse, it is at the side of decent and decent jobs, it is at the side of the workers of this country, and that is why, Minister De la Serna, we will vote against the royal decree-law. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-wing Party (Christian Democrats) - ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u9	Thank you very much. The joint parliamentary group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe, takes the first step in fixing positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u10	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that there is a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union which must be complied with. What is not clear is that it is the royal decree-law that interprets it, in our opinion, incorrectly. It's two different things. The ports are extremely productive infrastructures, where the business world and the estua world have lived well together, and therefore an interference in this sector, trying to benefit one of the parties, is a serious error of assessment, Minister. You have undervalued the greenhouse sector, you have undervalued your arguments and I dare say that you have undervalued others, because those of us who know the long struggle of the greenhouse sector know that they have become an example of decent work, with decent wages, in no case privileged. Therefore, it is the example to follow, it is what should be defended. And it turns out that in this case, when interpreting this conflict, you have chosen to make the same mistake that has already been made, to believe that competitiveness is internal devaluation, is to precariousise employment. According to that, with this model we are all better off, but it is not true, there is a serious error in this conception that we are all living. We have had numerous meetings with the coordinator of the Puerto de la Luz or Las Palmas - because I am from Las Palmas de Gran Canaria - and I can assure you that the arguments of that part are perfectly understood. For example, what do we answer to the following question: How is it possible that we are proposed to accept a real decree-law that is the labor death of the estuary sector in exchange for a normative instrument that is not known what it is, which is supposed to resurrect us? No one would accept this negotiation, I'm sure you wouldn't either if you were on the other side. You're wrong. We regret that you have allowed this situation to rot. New Canarias will vote against the validation of this royal decree-law.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u11	Thank you very much. Next, also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Yesterday a government spokesman said that the Kingdom of Spain was going to be ridiculous international. The only ridiculous thing is that of a government that today has failed the truth. There has been no dialogue. They bring a decree-law to the Council of Ministers, without having an absolute majority, without teaching it to social actors or political forces. They set the date for the adoption of that decree in this Congress without having spoken to the political forces. That is the ridiculousness of a government that comes here to fail the truth. First. Spanish ports are not competitive. Why are the Chinese in Barcelona? Why is Valencia what it is and not Italy? Why are the ports of Light and Tenerife what they are and not Morocco's? Spanish ports are competitive. Now, if we want the Spanish stoves not to win like the Norwegian or Dutch stoves but to cover 1,700 euros, which could be done, then yes. They are not privileged workers, as has been said by the Government. I would like to make it clear here that the salary of the dockers is not paid by the Spaniards, it is paid by multinational companies that make a lot of money, and they work at night, for the day, on holidays and according to the work they have, because there is productivity. Second. You said yesterday two falsehoods: that jobs are guaranteed and that the stovemen are going to retire at 70% and 50 years. False. The only way to guarantee jobs is that this decree is now being treated as a bill and that subrogation is guaranteed. The only thing they have said yesterday is that they are going to study it and, therefore, either they are forced to subrogate or there is no guarantee of jobs. And the police station shut up when they asked her here about the subrogation. Put it on, and let Europe bring down the decree. Yesterday they said that the subrogation would go in another regulation, and now it turns out that if it goes in the same decree it is not possible, but in another regulation it is. Third. That Europe that makes those decisions is the one that is generating populism in this country. There are no good and bad here, there are no people here who have no sense of state. Of course we have a sense of state, with six thousand workers, with more than twenty thousand families, with a decent job with which they have played their lives and which needs specialisation. The current government and this ministry have gone beyond what Europe is asking for. I assure you that if now the spokesman of the People's Group announces the processing as a bill, the introduction of the subrogation and that offer that has made dona Fátima Báñez, that I take off my hat...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u13	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u14	I'm done. Yesterday, at the last hour, you finally sat at a table, at which you had not wanted to sit, with a pre-retirement offer, but not at the age of 50. They are people who have worked in the summer 35 years and the only thing that is done is advance 66 months their possibility of pre-retirement, as in other sectors. That is why today these political forces that we are here, Minister, we have a sense of state, we have a sense of country. I assure you that if your spokesman announces the processing as a bill and the inclusion of subrogation, the unions and political forces of this country today give a message to Europe. Parallel regulations of subrogations, metal today and to bring it down to us Europe; that Europe that has to fight against the populisms that are generated by situations like these. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u15	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. This royal decreelaw adapts the regulation of the harbour estuary in the terms that it has determined at the end of 2014 the European Court of Justice, in a judgment whose judgment literally says: The kingdom of Spain has failed to comply with the operations that are incumbent on it under Article 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, by imposing on the enterprises of other Member States who wish to develop the activity of manipulation of goods in the Spanish ports of general interest certain obligations. Mr De Fomento has just pointed them out. The court also sentenced Spain on its own costs, in an unequivocal judgment that should have already been complied with, even before the forced paralysis that lasted for more than a year for the dissolution of the General Courts and the limitations of the government in office, as a consequence of the president's failed investiture in this very House. Ladies and gentlemen, Forum supports validation, because the rule of law and our status as Europeans obliges us to comply with court sentences, even if some do not like them. Our country is already paying an important economic penalty every day, which can be multiplied to more than EUR 130,000 per day if Spain does not comply with the criteria incorporated in Community law. There is no precedent for Spain's failure to comply with crucial aspects arising from our membership and signature of the Treaty on Union, also known as the Maastricht Treaty, which President Felipe González signed in 1992. We are therefore obliged, not as a political decision, but as a commitment to our membership of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and to comply with the judgment of its highest tribunal. Madam President, I shall vote in favour of validation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u17	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Matute García de Jalón.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u18	Egun where you're going. I'll start by pointing a correction to the minister. He thanked all political groups for their willingness to dialogue and their efforts. You do not need to thank Euskal Herria Bildu, because you have had no interest in knowing our opinion and, in any case, it would be no different than what I am going to say to you here today. We are not going to support the validation of this royal decree because you are using a circumstance, which is the judgment of the European courts, which is the fine of the European courts, to penalise and deregulate an entire sector, to devalue the working conditions of the workers of an entire sector, the estuary sector. And you do it by taking advantage of a circumstance, which is the fine; and what you would have to say is that this fine is put on for the work of the public authorities, not the workers of the ports; that this fine has to do with the transformation of the ports that were public, because they were a strategic sector, to leave them in private hands. And what they want to do with this royal decree is to deepen, if possible, even further in this deregulation; that the workers pay for their policies and that the multinationals, the transnationals, in this case, of the terminals of the ports continue to benefit even more. You said: It's been saying... They've been saying a lot of things. What has been an irresponsibility has been to place the workers of the ports, the workers and the stowers in the mouth of many people, pointing to them as what they are not, as they have said, as privileged, as organizations with strange practices. The only strange practices are practiced by those who dominate companies. Port workers, summer workers are a problem for you because you have class consciousness, and as you have class consciousness and are in a strategic sector, you may find it difficult. We demand here again the transfer - precisely because it is a strategic sector - and the management of the Basque ports to do things different from those you do, to make Bilbao and Pasaia refer also in the defense and dignity of the rights of the workers.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u19	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Charles Chaplin said: Mistaking is human, but blaming others is more human. I think that's what the speech was about, atoning for guilt, looking for culprits and, ultimately, saying, how did we get here? The important thing is not how we got here, nor who the culprits are; the important thing is what has been done wrong here. Something has been done wrong here and there is a fine, and that fine was imposed on December 11, 2014, two years and three months ago. During that time, the People's Party government had ten months of absolute majority and could have prevented us from reaching these twenty-six million. The second issue is how this whole process has been conducted. I have already told you, Minister, if you had sat before as you did yesterday, if that role you had yesterday had arrived before, there would have been room for negotiation. If I had a little more waist, we probably wouldn't be here today as we are. He knows that Compromís has had a constructive attitude and we would have wanted to get here by voting yes, because that would have meant that there was an agreement between companies, workers and political forces, and there was no agreement. The decree could not be passed like this, and you know it - I am finishing - and the proof is that it will not come out, because it went beyond the sentence, because it did not guarantee the subrogation of the workers. Yesterday's document came late, with no real possibility of negotiation and no guarantee of subrogation. I'm done. It said Conception Arenal that when it is everyone's fault, it is nobody's fault, but here there is a culprit that this does not come out, that there is no agreement; it is the fault of the People's Party and the Government, not ours. Minister, today is not the end of the negotiation, today is the beginning. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u21	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group too, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u22	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, from this rostrum, President Rajoy urged this House to carry out structural reforms and set an example: the greenhouse is a structural reform. You must know, Minister - and the Government too - that structural reforms are not done unilaterally, because when they are done this way and there is no absolute majority, they do not go forward. President Rajoy finished his reflection by saying: Well, if it's validated, well, and if not, what are we going to do to him. If this is the spirit of the government, I understand your position here today. It is a difficult position, a sought-after position, because surely if during the last few years you had made the effort you have made over the last few hours and the last days - and we must recognize this - this would have been resolved for months. The responsibility lies essentially with the Government; neither the trade unions, nor the companies nor the parliamentary groups can assume the primary responsibility, Minister, and solutions must be sought. Our group understands that it must be reformed. I believe that the whole House and all sectors believe that reform is necessary, but it must be agreed, it must be agreed and it must be done among all. It is not a contract of accession: I raise the conditions, the European Union raises the conditions and the others can only join, and if they do not, they are anti-patriots and, in turn, responsible for the fine. It's not like that. In any case, Minister, if this reform does not come forward today - and it seems that some government partners have already announced that they are not going to vote in favour - we will have a challenge and I believe that a bill would have to come in this afternoon or tomorrow. We have been demanding from the first day that it be treated as a bill; if it is treated as a bill, the whole House will be jointly responsible for whether or not this is passed, but if there is no bill, obviously the responsible one will be the Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u24	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I will not dwell too much on some aspects that have already been mentioned. The Royal Decree-Law is no more or less a consequence of a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and we are asked to ratify it. Mr Martínez Oblanca has explained to us what was the specific text which considers the infringement of Article 49 of the founding Treaty of the European Union. The truth is that this ruling has two fundamental conclusions: firstly, the need to eliminate the obligation imposed on companies to register with the Sagep and, secondly, to remove certain restrictions on employment, especially through the Sagep. As you know, the royal decree-law of which the validation is requested contains certain measures, in particular, liquidated the legal regime of management of the harbour workers contained in the Law of the ports of the State and of the merchant navy; proclaims the free contracting, that is, will apply the ordinary labor legal regime, and states that the companies that intend to operate in the harbour service will not need to participate in any one whose social object is to make available to harbour workers. This is why it develops in its articles 3 and 4 different determinations regarding these issues, creates the port employment centres and, finally, opts for a transitional regime, both in the application of the conventions in force in the Sagep and in the transitional period of three years for the updating of the business regime. That is the scenario in which this debate is moving, that of the finding of non-compliance with the rules of the founding Treaty of the European Union and of the need to comply with the judgment with the inevitable consequence of winding up the Sagep, also of specifying a new legal regime to which workers are to be subject and, therefore, necessarily, of contemplating a transitional adaptation regime and specifying the legal regime to which they are to be subjected. If I may, after hearing many of the speeches, I must begin by warning you that this debate is plagued with fallacies that should be highlighted, because in fact none of those who have been called to intervene to resolve this matter of the greenhouse has acted with due responsibility or due diligence. No one has proposed genuine solutions to a problem which, with all due respect, is neither new nor needed from the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union so that it can be warned. The European institutions have not done so. The Commission, probably with good reason for the flagrant infringement, but also with double standards, has acted against Spain possibly to give the rest of the European sector some kind of dismay. Neither have the Governments, but not only this one; this one, the previous one and all the previous ones have been aware of the existence of this problem and none has raised an effective solution. Neither are the companies, which today wait for the validity of this royal decree-law to take advantage of its consequences, especially since they have been given two absolutely unexpected scenarios: one, the risk of loss of part of the business share and the other, the possibility of transferring the responsibilities of social costs to the Administration. But the representations of the workers, of the workers themselves and of the traditional trade unions are also responsible; some, because they knew for a long time that the special nature of the working relationship could not be sustained in the context of the European Union's freedoms, and others, because they have never wanted to know about this sector until today, because of the media's conflict. Neither can the parties nor this Parliament be ignored, of course. We are supposed to be both for the easy and for the really valuable, as it is to face problems and propose solutions. However, here the highlight is the clumsiness - by calling it somehow - of looking elsewhere to avoid problems. It is not just the sentence; the particular situation of the ports and the business of the estuba is an issue that has always overflew public opinion and that of the parties without anyone ever wanting to land in their contradictions or offer any way out. Today, in the face of a scenario such as the imperative need to make decisions because the price of the sentence against Spain is very high, it is a relief to know that the Government has finally proposed measures, added to those of the Royal Decree-Law. In addition, we have been pleased to hear your precision from the Minister's mouth, because it also involves committing the Government itself to its execution. From this agreement proposed by the Government highlights, first of all, as the Minister himself has already said in his intervention, the guarantee of the current level of employment, which should be realized through the subrogation of the workers of the Sagep in the current companies holding the port service as new employers, that is, that the workers of the Sagep and also those who join the harbour centers of employment would be integrated into the companies that would replace the current holders of licenses and - what is important to highlight - under the conditions of the current convention of the Sagep, although they would move in the future to have the conditions of a sectoral convention of harbour workers. Furthermore, if the licensees decide to remain in the Sagep, the ownership of the relationship would not change and the three-year transitional period provided for in the Royal Decree-Law would apply to them. Secondly, it will be the new companies that will exercise the managerial power that Article 20 of the Workers' Statute recognizes employers, and what it does is to characterize the habit of the new employment relationship. Thirdly, and most importantly, the Government, in order to facilitate the transition to the new situation, is involved in a system of aid for workers who wish to terminate their employment contract in advance, aimed at those who are less than five years old for their retirement - which under the special scheme for port workers is 55 years old - who are guaranteed both the contribution up to that age and an allowance for 70% of their salary over the last six months. Fourthly - which we consider to be of great importance - a committee would be set up to monitor the agreements in which the representatives of workers, businesses and the administration would participate in a joint manner, with the aim of resolving the issues that might arise in their implementation. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u25	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u26	This is therefore the description of the commitments that the Government appears to have made to implement the Royal Decree-Law and I must say that it coincides with the parameters that we had demanded, which were those relating to the guarantee of social rights, the continuity in their jobs of the workers and the involvement of the Government itself, which, in our view, translates into social aid to which it commits itself and with its participation in the committee responsible for solving the problems arising from the implementation of the agreements. It is a commitment of high social content and we believe that it means promoting the competitiveness of ports by not having to bear these costs. They are therefore a set of measures which have a positive impact on all the actors involved in ports, since their maintenance and development are central to our decisions. We must therefore state that our assessment is positive, and we must add, in the face of opposing positions, that we doubt that any future agreement can exceed the material content of the Government's current offer. We only have to announce the meaning of our vote, which will be positive, and make it clear that we will do so for two additional reasons. Firstly, on account of responsibility, because we believe that it is not time to hide from the solution to a real and urgent problem and because the commitments offered by the Government are consistent with the judgement of the Court of Justice of the European Union and respond to the problems posed by its implementation. Secondly, in defence of the collective interest, because not only in the social aspect but also in general, we are not prepared to be responsible for paying EUR 4 million a month for delaying a solution that in any case will have these or other very similar characters. The other way around is cheating. The enforcement of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union obliges us to adopt those measures, which everyone is debating today, but for which no one has so far formulated any alternative. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u27	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u28	Good day to tothom and all the fellows of the summer of the rest of the state. [[Pronounce words in Catalan]] We're here for them. Thank you, President. We are telling you that our vote will be a no-brainer, because we believe that the actual decree-law now before us has little to do with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Do you know what's behind this decree? Let's be honest. In essence, there are the same objectives as in their labour reforms; the reforms that the workers' organizations, i.e. their trade unions and their capacity to defend and mobilize, prevented them from doing so. What is behind is a devaluation of wages and working conditions in the estuba sector. What is behind this decree is a devaluation of wages that can reach close to 35% in the future. What is behind this royal decree is that the estibadores charge a lot; but much in relation to whom, relative to the monarch?, relative to the great leaders of the bank?, relative to the majority of the people, who have seen their labor conditions precarious?, relative to the people who live in a state of long-term unemployment?, relative to the people who live in the submerged economy? With regard to workers in companies who have withdrawn from their sector agreement, reducing their wages in such a way that they are, even though they are working, poor? In relation to whom do they charge a lot?, in relation to the profits of capital, which are increasingly important in relation to GDP?, to the shareholders of the big multinationals? Why is a worker who does not live on the return of capital, who makes a good living working a privileged one? No, it's not. [[Applauds]] To earn a decent living - life - should be the norm and not the exception for workers; it should be a right and not a privilege, as is now considered in relation to the stoves. They say we have to open up the market, that the estibadores prevent the ports of the state from being competitive; instead, we are seeing record figures in exports; we are seeing that the estibadores here have salaries similar to those in northern Europe or those in the United States. What do you want? Frank ports? Who wins and who loses with this European directive? And we shall be talking about this European Union. Who wins and who loses? Europe, who has seen you and who sees you. For they win the big multinational shipping companies, which only have the margin to expand profits to lower workers' wages, the old neoliberal recipe. Who's losing? The workers, the wage earners? We all lose because the stoves contribute to Social Security, the stoves spend their wages in the butchery, in the shoe shop, in the shops of your city - that's why we all lose - and they pay their taxes here and not in tax havens or you go to know where like the big multinationals of shipping. That is why we say no to this regulation, because it is an open door in pairs to the continuation of the deregulation of work, to the entry of ETTs, subcontractors with their own company agreements or that crews of ships or ship personnel of other nationalities discharge their goods at prices of 6 euros per hour. This is the reality. We say no to this regulation because we do not want this profession to become precarious, that a degree of vocational training of a medium or higher degree is sufficient to unload ships. We will vote that it is not because we know that within a maximum of three years there will be no equitable organization of work. In three years, broilers will only be required to hire the current broilers and broilers for 75% of the annual workload - in the second year 50 % and in the third year 25 % - without any guarantee of recruitment completed this period. And even though there was a guarantee in the negotiation that the future of the work of the current stowers would be guaranteed, the price is that the conditions of the future of our children's work, the conditions of the future of our children's work in the safe, sure they will be inferior to those of now. In a maximum period of three years there will be dismissals or economic compensation by the public sector, that is, paid with our taxes, in order to precarious the labour market of the usual. But who guarantees the hiring of the stoves and stoves, with their wages very linked to the workload they do, their temporary work, that they will continue to hire themselves in a free market of companies competing at low costs? Perhaps the legal retirement age will be regulated as a claim, but this clearly indicates that they do not want to rejuvenate the sector or act in the face of possible oversized ports; they only seek to extinguish a collective with decent working conditions, they seek to transform, in the name of the god of competitiveness, a sector with mostly indefinite contracts in a sector with an encouraged temporality; that is what they seek. From the new norm, the companies that will manage the jobs at the disposal of the stoves and the stoves will be ETT that can have the status of harbour centers of employment; in each port they will be able to operate many companies and already know who will take the job: the one that hires cheaper. This is the reality. This decree is also made to push down workers' demands. The Minister of Development played dirty. I've been listening to him today and he seemed more like the employer's attorney defending his platform than a Minister of Development. He has played dirty because to carry this decree-law knowing that it can be lost is to put on the side of the employer to put pressure on collective bargaining that must be free and without any pressure from the government. You could have brought a real decree-law much less ambitious than ideological like the one you brought us. In fact, it was simply a matter of negotiating the work bag with decent conditions. In fact, the solution was not so complicated, it was simply to respect collective bargaining. In fact Commissioner Bulc said - it is written in the press - that we had a margin of three or four months to continue this negotiation. Why is this royal decree-law brought here? Because you want to press these people here to press down, because you consider your wages indecent while you do not consider other jobs, other monopolies or other activities indecent. This is what you want. Another day will be the time to talk about that here, but let's start talking about the European Union, this European Union where every time people vote only 40% because they are seeing the course they are taking, it is the European Union that is governed not for its people, for its people and for its workers, but for the interests of capital, the financial system and multinational companies. It is clear to whom we defend: to the people of my city, to the people who are up here and therefore 'Not a step back'. We'll be here and we'll be here. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u30	Mr. Alonso, you've turned three MPs into heroines because you had to rush back from a U.S. trip to a Congressional session that was scheduled. [[Applauds]] I hope that at least the tickets have been paid for by their respective parties, because I have to remember that our citizens' deputies abstained from going on that trip precisely because this session was scheduled. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the autumn of 2011, as Minister of Fomento José Blanco, the Royal Legislative Decree 2/2011, the consolidated text of the Law on State ports and the merchant navy, was approved. This law consolidated previous texts, including Law 48/2003 on economic regime and provision of services in ports of general interest and Law 33/2010, which in June of that same year had amended Law 48/2003. Article 109 of the Ports Act stated that the provision of port services would be carried out by private initiative, governed by the principle of free competition with the exceptions set out in the law, and the exceptions would be made immediately. Article 142 provided that in each port of general interest an anonymous company would be set up whose social purpose would be to make its shareholders available to brokers. These were the famous Sagep, the anonymous companies of management of port dockers. [[Rumors]] And who were the shareholders? The The Ports Act obliged all companies wishing to work in the ports to enter the stock exchange. Next, Article 150.1 provided that companies wishing to hire stoves should do so as a matter of priority through... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u31	One second, Your Honor; one second. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u32	... of offers to the workers of the relevant Sagep, and in the event of the absence of adequate staff in the Sagep, only in that case could such recruitments be made freely. In addition, Article 104 required companies working in ports to incorporate a number of workers into their workforce in a percentage of not less than 25 %. Almost simultaneously with the entry into force of the Ports Act, on 25 November 2011, the Commission sent a letter of formal notice to the Kingdom of Spain stating that the regime regulated by the famous Law 48/2003, which subsequently recast the Ports Act, was not in conformity with Article 49 of the founding Treaty of the European Union on freedom of establishment. I repeat, in November 2011, the Commission warned Spain that an article of the very heart of the founding treaty was being violated five and a half years ago. From that moment on, a game of dizziness began. If you follow the line of mail, communications and writing between the Government and the Commission, you see that the Government replies that this law no longer exists because it has been recast; Europe replies that already, but it is necessary to amend that recast law; then the Government whistles at the sky and changes the legislature and the thing remains the same. In October 2012, the Commission sent a reasoned opinion stating that it was already joking and that the situation should be corrected. The Government continued to take a long time, and the first appeal was filed. The Government continued to defend itself until the judgement of 11 December 2014, a strong judgement that includes costs. In spite of this, the Government continued to take it quite calmly, some approaches were made to stoves and companies, but the negotiations were completely interrupted in September 2015. From that moment on, the only negotiations were with Europe to try to stop the imposition of fines. In view of the above, on 13 July 2016, the Commission brought a new action calling for the conviction of these two fines which have already been reiterated: a daily of EUR 134,000 and a flat rate of EUR 22 million. Recapitulating, there is a law that violates the founding treaty of the European Union which has received repeated warnings from Europe and which successive governments have allowed to rot. Ladies and gentlemen, from the outset in Citizens we have made clear what our position is. We must comply with Europe's sentence, not just because of the fine, but because we are in Europe. We need to reform the sector, we need to make reforms, but we also need to ensure that jobs are kept to the maximum extent possible. Because we must not forget that this, although it is a reform, is not a mine that closes and jobs disappear. No, jobs here are still needed. In fact, we want Spain to become a European transport platform for America and Asia. We're gonna need more jobs. [[Applauds]] That is why we encourage the parties to sit down and negotiate, and that is what has been done: the positions have come closer, the stoves have yielded in some things and the companies have yielded in others, and this is a sign of maturity. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a hell of a situation, but now, finally now, we are on the right track. The effort being made by all parties must be recognized and the new attitude of the Government must be recognized. Finally, he understands that there is a possibility of agreement. We have to recognise two important developments and one of them is the document that was presented yesterday that agrees on continuity in employment, it agrees exactly what we were asking for. [[Rumors]] It offers aid to all those who are not included in the subrogation and, very importantly, the Government is finally present in the negotiation. In Citizens we want to recognize, because it is essential, the presence of the Minister of Employment in this matter, but no one can deny that the text that was presented yesterday is the basis of a good agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this embryo of this agreement which was presented yesterday, does it make sense for a decree to be presented today without the necessary support? In Citizens we believe that no, that it would have made more sense to wait, to hasten a little more the deadlines we still have, to withdraw the decree today and to wait another week. [[Applauds]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, Citizens are part of the solution, but unfortunately my group is not decisive in this vote. This vote, because of the importance of the matter, requires a state agreement; it requires parties with a vocation and a sense of state to reach an agreement that is possible. We insist that the possibilities of negotiation be exhausted until the end. The decree has not been withdrawn and now they have no such support, so today we are going to abstain, but we insist that we are... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u33	One second. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please. Go on, Mr. Salvador.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u34	...on the right path. The solution to such a complicated problem, in which we all have to give in, is now within our reach. We appeal to the maturity and responsibility of the parties. Let's keep moving on that path. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor for the Socialist Group. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u36	Thank you, Madam President. If we had to headline this as if it were a movie - everything we've been through looks a lot like a movie and, seeing the interventions of some, it could be said that they've made a great piece of paper, because really some are prepared to be magnificent actors -, I would choose the title that a writer, Isaac Rosa, put in a newspaper article a month ago: Get ready to hate the hedgehogs. That's what we've lived here today, what we've lived this week and what we're going to live on, but surely the title changes from today and it's called: Get ready to hate the opposition. Because they have tried to hold us responsible for a fine that is not ours and that began counting in December 2014. - I repeat, December 2014-. Every day that has passed since then the fine has increased and I wonder: Why did the People's Party government not make a decree in 2015 with the absolute majority they had to respond to the sentence? [[Applauds]] I think the answer is clear to everyone, but if you don't, I'll remind you. Municipal, regional and general elections are held in 2015. Well, that sense of state that the People's Party asked opposition groups to support the decree did not then. The interest was partyist and electoral, and that is why the Government goes astray if from now on it claims to hate opposition groups. [[Applauds]] He's wrong, but, like I said, we've seen a lot of papers here today. Some have made a piece of paper. I'm going to talk about my friend Felix, from Podemos, who has made a recognition to the deputies who have come by plane, fast and running, to do their job and vote. - I repeat, to do your job and vote. I am going to acknowledge those Members who have not left, who were able to leave and stayed because they knew that this debate and this vote were very important for the workers of the estiba and for this country. [[Applauds]] That's why I think we've been in a movie all this time, in a bad movie. As for the minister's intervention, I have a friend who knows what he would have said at the moment. I would have proposed that every time the minister spoke of a fine, a shot would have been taken. Every time I talked about a fine, I guess. Surely the intervention would not have ended because he has repeated it here tiredly to do the role he wanted to do: to make us responsible for what has happened and what is going to happen. Within the papers that have been distributed the various groups of the House I will say which one is ours. We have always believed that this is a complicated, difficult issue and that we had to have State views, but we were also very clear that we are not part of the negotiation. Why? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u37	One second, Mr. Ramos. [[Pause]] You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u38	We're not part of the negotiation. Why? Because we do not have the tools, the dialogue and, since it is a decree that has to change the labor relations between the unions and the employer, it has to be done between the unions, the employer and, a third leg, the Government, which is the author of the decree, the Government. We have repeatedly called for the Government to sit down at the table and negotiate with the parties. Interestingly, he sat down yesterday. - After a month and a half, the government sat down. In addition, he brought a proposal entitled, Tripartite Agreement Government, employers and trade unions, when he had told us all this time that it was not a matter that was with them and that they just wanted to pass a decree as it were. Yesterday they acknowledged that it was a problem of the Government, as we have been saying in the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and that it was the responsibility of the Government to resolve this issue. We're glad he does, but he's done it late and wrong. There are others in this House who have sought a single objective: to overthrow the decree. Friends, this is not going to bring down a decree; this is going to solve the problem of stowage, this is going to respond to the European judgment, this is going to guarantee the jobs of the stowers and this is going to guarantee their working conditions. [[Applauds]] We think we're wrong if we don't work for them. That is why it is essential to manage this issue well and that there is room for agreement. The deal is possible and we have to work for it. As I said, we have been here for a long time and the minister has given justifications here for everything he has done, for all the times he has sat down and for all the times he has negotiated. [[Rumors]] If you sit on a table for an hour and get up, that's not a negotiation. Perhaps the minister has negotiated very few agreements or agreements, but it is very difficult to reach an agreement if you don't sit at the table, jump and get to work to get the agreement. Yesterday we saw that it was with a proposal, which we believe could be the basis for starting negotiations, and he sat down with the parties. But one thing that has not been said today must be taken into account: there were no representatives of the workers. We do not believe that an agreement can be reached that affects workers without having them. We do not agree with that, Minister. We do not agree that it should be done without them in something that affects the lives of thousands of workers so that today the holder in many media is: the stovemen reject an agreement that guarantees them retirement with 70% of the salary at the age of 50. It does not seem fair to us, because the workers were not at that table to accept or reject it. [[Rumors]] What these headlines do not say is that this agreement was not accepted by the employer either, because what was put on the table yesterday generated and continues to generate uncertainty, as it contradicts the decree. What if today the decree, which is the one that is worth, is approved and contradicts the subrogation that was proposed yesterday or with the retirements? What will be above it will be the decree. Yesterday, a trap was set to get the headlines to turn bad once again on the stoves. Once again it has been achieved that the phrase, 'prepare to hate the stavesmen' is fulfilled. He also said to try to demonize the opposition groups that had given the unions strength in this negotiation. That's right, we're standing next to the workers and we said there had to be an agreement. We believe that in a negotiation of this kind we must be at the side of the weakest, because in politics we must have empathy capacity, Minister, empathy capacity. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u39	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u40	I imagine what they felt and what 6,000 families experienced in December 2014 when they found out that there was a European sentence that forced the Spanish state to change the labor relations they had maintained for a long time. We have been insecure for two and a half years by many workers in this country and their families, who do not know if they will continue to work tomorrow or have the same working conditions. We're asking for a little empathy. The Socialist Party has been on the side of the workers. Yes, it is true, we have given them strength and we will continue to do so, because it seems essential to ensure reasonable conditions. But we also say that the agreement is possible and we ask the trade unions to sit down and negotiate and not give the Government any justification to complain about losses in ports, because sometimes they are doing the work to the Government. The Government brings here figures that may or may not be true and says that the stops or the low pace of the ports are fair money for the State. Let's not give him that satisfaction, let's come to an agreement, let's find a way to never face the workers who are preventing that agreement. I know that the workers in this process have moved, they have sought an agreement, they have worked for it; the one who has blocked, permanently, that agreement is the government that never wanted to sit at a table; less yesterday, without the workers. Minister, don't be so afraid of the workers, it's okay, don't eat. It is true that we have given them much strength, but they are normal workers, who think of their families and their conditions. We are going to ask here today what we believe has to be the solution to this problem; we ask everyone to get to work. This decree will be rejected today by this House, because the Socialist Party has done what it promised at first: if there was no agreement, we would vote against it. And today, the Socialist Party will vote against, despite what they have repeated during these weeks matches as We Can to try to confront the workers. We will vote against how we commit ourselves, but we ask that tomorrow the parties feel. Minister, sit down tomorrow, do not stand up from the table, put the proposal on the table. We ask the trade unions, as a gesture to negotiate, not to stop at the ports because it will be negotiated much better. We believe that it is essential for trade unions to announce that they are going to sit at the table, that they are going to facilitate negotiations and that we are going to seek an agreement. Give that agreement a reasonable time; we believe that there is time to do so; we believe that it can be done within a reasonable time. Get to work from tomorrow, don't give anyone any justification and don't finish this movie by telling who the bad guys are and who the good guys are, because in the end, what matters in this is that we can solve a problem. We give answers to the workers and we'll all end up like the good guys in the movie. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Barrachina Ros has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. [[The Rumors Continue]] Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the speaker, I beg you to remain silent. Go ahead, Mr. Barrachina.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. What is happening in the Spanish Parliament does not happen in any European Parliament. Yesterday, at the appearance of Don Mariano Rajoy, all the groups proclaimed themselves Europeanists; today, to rebade some of the votes of the estuba, they decide to dismiss a conviction of the European High Court of Justice and, moreover, they say that we are outside the Treaty of Union signed by Felipe González. No flushing. [[Applauds]] No flushing, no complexes. Last week - not two years ago - Violeta Bulc, the Commissioner for Transport, who, by the way, does not belong to the European People's Party - would not sit here, but rather in that area - told them that this royal decree was fully supported by the Commission and strictly adhered to the sentencing of the courts. Do you know why no will prosper today? Why are those who do not want to serve sentences or be part of the Union's treaties going to win today? Because the 134,107 euros per day of fine will be paid by the Spaniards and not by their wages. [[Applauds]] Last week the European Commissioner said, literally, in this very House: We have had too much patience with Spain and Spain today has an opportunity - until the 24th, until next week - to demonstrate the height of its country. I want to tell the European Commission that Spain is a very high country, but unfortunately the Parliament we have is the one we have. Therefore, by disregarding that sentence we force two things. First, to pay the delays of almost 23 million euros which, as the Commissioner said, had paralysed. The Commission was paralysing the clock waiting to see the behaviour and height of this Parliament. Secondly, a daily fine, which also leads us to a dead end, because I imagine that those who have so many alternatives but have not written any, have not written it because they know that the government has arrived at its permanent negotiation for a maximum of two years, which the European Commission claims and which the European Commission allowed to treat workers in the greenhouse. No one's left, all the workers are needed. They know we've made it to the top. I've even heard what could be paid for by doctors. Let's see, this sanction would mean the possibility of hiring a thousand additional doctors if we didn't pay the penalty and this dead end indicates that the alternative to this text is, as the spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party has said, this same text, because it is a condemnation. [[Rumors]] I have heard with amazement a Republican Left spokesman talking about this directive. But what direction? It's a conviction. I'll explain it to Esquerra's spokesman. This is as if one goes through Tarragona with the car and for a mosso d ́esquadra and tells him that he has been going in the opposite direction for two years. [[There are no labour monopolies in Europe, and here there is a labour monopoly that makes us lose productivity. It's got to go.]] Then the driver of the car - which today in this simile is this Parliament - tells mosso that he already knows that he is going in the car in the opposite direction, that he knows that he is out of the law but escapes. And instead of paying the fine, he escapes. Why? Because he knows that the fine is paid by the neighbors, that the 134,000 euros are paid by the neighbors. [[Applauds]] He's getting away. Negocia Esquera usually fines and sanctions with the mossos d ́esquadra? Are the sentences negotiated? Why is it a royal decree-law of only four articles? To fulfill what the law, the law of the PSOE... I have heard with amazement the PSOE say that they have nothing to do with it, that this is a condemnation to the PP. But what do they say? It is a condemnation of the Kingdom of Spain, which declares a series of articles of the Ports Act of 2010, a law of the PSOE that we have agreed among all, inadmissible. [[Applauds]] We're being demanded that the PP negotiate. Sure! If the text by which we have been convicted by the courts twice, we negotiate it and agree it. The PP when it has a margin negotiates, but the court does not set a margin, it establishes a sentence. A few times the Spaniards will be able to check in their pockets and precisely millimetrically, up to the cent, how much the inconsistency of this Parliament costs: 23 million euros on the first day and, from the second, each of the days that pass, 134,107 euros per day. No, the PSOE and the others have nothing to do with it. This is not a condemnation of a government, it is that, if we can govern this country - which is the one that has exercised the opposition today, the turn against - what would it present? The same text, identical. Do not let the workers be deceived, do not let them be deceived, do not let them be used, do not let them be used. [[Applauds]] This process of democratisation of the labour market - in which 6,200 workers are needed and also all those who, in an unemployment situation and having the right merits, are able to access it - is an unstoppable process, not for Spain but for the whole of Europe. Don't let them use them. We can do what your government has done in Greece, say no, no, no, until they win the elections, and when they win they tell the European Commission that yes, yes, yes. [[Applauds]] Does anyone think, does anyone think that we are going to be permanently outside the treaties of the European Union? That is to say, with a condemnation of non-compliance with the Treaties, will any of the 27 nations that we are part of the Union be allowed to remain in isolation in a particular sector? Obviously, you're not going to allow it. I've heard a lot of times about privileges, high wages. I don't judge him, anyone who wins what he deserves. Last week, on International Women's Labor Day, there were deputies here with a purple bracelet and many pictures, photos everywhere, and now those of the purple bracelet, who know that in the first port of Spain, that of Algeciras, of the 1,600 workers, 1,600 are men... [[applause.- Rumors and protests]] That is the aim, Mr. Iglesias: of 1,600 workers, 1,600 trained men and zero women. He took the purple bracelet and threw it under the seat. They've been scared. [[Protests.- Several Members say words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u43	Do not force me to call two of your ladies and gentlemen to order and use the Rules of Procedure once again to defend the speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that the Rules of Procedure oblige us all and that only this presidency can be interrupted by the speaker. Therefore, no one can interrupt a speaker, whoever uses the rostrum. Go on, Mr. Barrachina.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u44	Thank you, Madam President. I have already received enough threats from the sector so that now the bracelets will also come to threaten me. [[applause.- Rumors and protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u45	Quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, you are setting a pitiful example for the citizens. [[Rumors]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen. [[Mr. Delgado Ramos: Look over there!]] Mr. Delgado, I look at the whole House. [[Mr Delgado Ramos speaks words that are not perceived]] Mr. Delgado, I call you to order. Go on, Mr. Barrachina.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u46	Thank you, Madam President. I do not judge whether this is privilege or salary, but I can give you a given, in case someone in this House is interested. When the commissioner of Transports said that Europe lost competitiveness in its ports, and especially Spain, and that it gave us seven days to make a decision, what came to say was something obvious: the last report of the sector collects - if they are interested in the data - that the average wage of 2015 in the port of Valencia was 109,070 euros gross. I don't say if that's a lot to access without a degree or a little, that's what those who have to apply that activity decide, but that's the payoff. And there is no one left, and there is no need to reduce wages, only with the freedom that exists in the rest of the sectors, with the fact that when a ship arrives in Valencia and needs six, six and not eighteen, which is the minimum number of employees who come, or when twenty are needed, twenty and no, eighteen more eighteen, thirty and six, and with the freedom that exists in the rest of Europe, only Spain will be competitive again. Today we have great risks. Only ten years ago in front of Algeciras was born a port, Tangier Med, which is by the way closer to Ceuta than Tangier, and in just two years it will double us in capacity. I've heard our ports are competitive. I will always speak well of our ports, but this is competitiveness. [[Show a chart]] This is the cost for Spain to unload a container; this is the cost of Italy and the cost of the rest of Europe; just twice as much. The cost of work in Spain is just twice as much as in Britain. Do you have to lower your wages? No, with the ability to self-organize is enough. I understand that today it is possible for you to win populism and lose the Spaniards. It has been said, in a very explicit and very express way, from Compromís: the blame lies with PP. [[A Member: What a novelty!]] Listen, but if the Strasbourg Court, when it judges us, when it condemns us by the law that was done with the PSOE, with the Socialist Party, it does not know who rules Spain; and when it goes to fine Spain and the Spanish pay the penalty that you are going to impose on them, it does not know who rules.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u47	Mr. Barrachina, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u48	I conclude, Madam President. It is true that you can add a majority among those who hate capitalism, among those who hate Spain and find it an opportunity to strike Spain, and those of the PSOE who hate themselves and that until the Congress of Pedro Sánchez passes they do not want to take a picture with the PP; it is true that today that union of grudge can win the Spaniards, but tomorrow Spain will continue to have a problem and a sentence that will begin to pay daily. [[Rumors]] You have wanted to give the Government of Spain a soup on the face of the Spaniards. But fortunately, and fortunately, Minister, Minister of the Government of Spain, this Government will continue to fulfil its obligations. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the stand.-Rumores.-Mrs Montero Gil asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u49	Mrs Montero, you have the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u50	I'm sorry, President. I request 71.3 for offenses from my parliamentary group. [[Rumors]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs. Montero. I would remind you that Article 71 clearly states that this is not a turn of speeches, but it is only a turn to stick strictly to what you have understood to be an offence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u52	Thank you, President. The speaker referred to what my parliamentary group was threatening. It is a radical lie; it affects the dignity of my parliamentary group and I ask you to withdraw it. Besides, I'm telling you something, just like my parliamentary group has to listen...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u53	Your Honor, I just reminded you that it's to tell you what you've been alluded to.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u54	I am explaining myself, and I want to tell you that I have been alluded to, because, just as my parliamentary group has to listen to everything you say, I believe that the thugs of the People's Parliamentary Group also deserve reflection by this House. [[Protests]] [[applause.-Rumores.-Mr Barrachina Ros asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u55	I also remind Mr Barrachina that I am going to give him the floor, that the turn is exclusively to reply to the woman who has been referred to, to the spokesman for Podemos. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, I have said that We can threaten, and that those who threaten journalists, those who threaten police and those who threaten judges also threaten the People's Party. [[Greetings.-Protests.-Mr. Hernando Fraile asks for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u57	Mr. Hernando, say the article.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u58	Rule 71.3, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u59	I remind you that if you have been alluded to, you will use it, if not, I will not give you the floor, Mr. Hernando. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u60	Madam President, the spokesman for the Podemos Group has spoken of bullying by referring to my group and I just want to say that I have been present throughout the debate and the speaker from Podemos has been speaking with absolute normality and without interruption, something that my group's spokesman has not been able to do. Therefore, if there has been bullying, it has not been on the part of my group, but rather on the part of another. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u61	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the agenda item on the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the European Convention on the protection of pet animals, done in Strasbourg on 13 November 1987, as well as the reservation and declaration that Spain wishes to make. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen. For the defence of the proposed amendment, I have the floor on behalf of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, Mr López de Uralde, in Comú Ponde-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u63	President, on behalf of the Group, Paul Iglesias will speak.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u64	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. The Presidency had not been informed. Mr. Churches, go ahead. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about a European convention on the protection of pet animals, which was signed 30 years ago and after 30 years it seems that our country is finally going to accede to a very sensible convention, which states that we must ban the animals' lives, such as cutting off their vocal cords, ears, removing their nails and teeth or cutting off their tails. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u66	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u67	It is sad that our country has taken thirty years to join the common sense and it is sad that the Government of our country has tried to set up a reserve so that in Spain it is still legal to cut the tail, to mutilate the dogs, something that is already forbidden by luck in many autonomous communities. Today many will think that this is not a relevant issue, which ultimately only alludes to or has to do with dogs and their tail. I think that loving our animals, loving dogs, respecting them speaks of a different society, speaks of a better society. I believe that what is at stake in this debate is the kind of society we aspire to be, because a society that respects dogs is a society, paradoxically, much more human. I recognize that there is a personal motivation in me to defend this amendment and it is that I have dogs, but surely what I feel with my dogs is no different from what any of you feel, regardless of the party in which you are fighting, regardless of the bench in which you are and I would like to see unanimity coming out of this House today. I'm sure those who have dogs, when they come home, live that moment as one of the most beautiful of the day and I'm sure they know the wonder that your dog or your dog comes to greet you and I wish there were no differences in this. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we are antagonists of you in almost everything, and we have just seen it a few minutes ago; but I hope we were not. I know that the President of the Government has a dog, a precious perdiger, who is called Rico, and I am convinced that he loves our animals like anyone else, and I do not think it is justified that you are defending that reserve so that you can cut your ass off the dogs. Surely, some arguments that are not true will be put on the table, ladies and gentlemen. It is said that cutting off some breeds of hunting dogs would protect them from certain wounds. That's not true. And it is not only that the scientific community or veterinarians have said that this is not true, but that a study was recently carried out in Scotland with a sample of 138,000 hunting dogs, and it was concluded that only 0.23% of those dogs had suffered some injury; and the most curious thing is that it was concluded that most of those injured dogs had been injured at home. It was concluded that it was easier for a dog to hurt its tail because a door closed badly than because it was participating in hunting activities. There is one very simple thing to answer to the lobbies who continue to try to impose that ultimately, for aesthetic reasons, the ass is cut off to the dogs, and it is that when a dog hurts his tail or his ears, simply what needs to be done is to cure him as if he hurts his back or any part of his body. A normal society heals their dogs when they suffer injuries. Ladies and gentlemen, there are traditions that need not be maintained. It is no more beautiful a boxer or a doberman because they cut off his ears or cut off his ass. It is a savage thing to do and I believe that a society of the twenty-first century should leave behind practices that have been part of the traditions and that make no sense. Ladies and gentlemen, dogs are not things, they are not toys, they are not gifts and they are not the aesthetic complement to the manhood of anyone. I can understand that someone wants to have a dog with a more aggressive image, but one thing is to understand it and another thing that our laws can allow an animal to get their ears cut off or their ass cut off because its owner wants to take a picture of an aggressive-looking animal. That is not typical of a society of the twenty-first century. That is why I insist on asking for unanimity. I think we are going to move this amendment forward, but it would be much more elegant, much more beautiful for Spain, if the Spanish saw us as Members of this House voting unanimously to move forward. I know that this step is not enough, but it is a step towards the protection of animal rights. And I would like to thank from this rostrum animalist organizations - often ridiculed - for their enormous work in raising awareness of the importance of defending animal rights throughout our society and of us too. I would also like to thank the fellow animalists in the political formations of my parliamentary group and especially Juantxo López de Uralde and the Equo colleagues for the work they have done. But I also want to thank the comrades of other political formations who have made a huge effort: thanks to Esquerra Republicana for rectifying, because rectifying is wise; thanks to Zaida Cantera for having remained firm despite the pressures. And many thanks to all those who can do that in this country, today, we may take the good news that dogs are not abused. I want to end by reading them the fragment of a poem, with which I identify enormously, of a poet who loved Spain and who loved dogs as well, Pablo Neruda: 'And I, a materialist who does not believe / in the heavenly heaven promised / for no human, / for this dog or for every dog / I believe in heaven, yes, I believe in a heaven / where I will not enter, but he awaits me / undulating his fan tail / so that when I arrive I will have friendships.' Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u68	Thank you very much. In defence of her particular vote, Mrs Cantera de Castro has the floor on behalf of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I was asking the Madam President how it worked because it's the first time I go up here and I casually go up with a topic that I'm grateful for because I also have animals and I like to treat them well. Says a famous Mahatma Gandhi phrase that a country, a civilization can be judged by how to treat its animals. And here we are, thirty years after the European Convention on the protection of pet animals was promulgated in Strasbourg on 13 November 1987. And we are here because this civilization, the Spanish one, must approve, sign and ratify - or not, we will see it - the said convention. The fact is that the Spanish State has signed and ratified the various agreements and conventions of the Council of Europe relating to the protection of animals which have been submitted; all of them have enabled us to establish a common legislative framework in matters such as animal transport, the protection of livestock holdings, the protection of animals for slaughter or the protection of vertebrate animals used for experimental and other scientific purposes. However, we still have this agreement pending. The European Convention I appoint to them is present in twenty-three countries with a fundamental objective: to improve the protection of pet animals, recognizing, in turn, that man has a moral obligation to respect all living beings, and emphasizing, as the Convention does, the importance of pet animals for their contribution to the quality of life and their consequent value to society. Now the government and the Parliamentary Group of the PP, thirty years later, present us with a first reservation, which was rejected in the initial presentation, and a compromise that came forward with the votes of the Republican Left of Catalonia in the Commission. The latter, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, has already publicly expressed its rectification and withdrawal of support for this transaction, which we welcome. That is why the parliamentary group I represent has put forward a particular vote to reject the transactional and to return to the original opinion of the presentation, and we do so because the transactional refers to Article 10.1a of the said agreement, so that for the Government the mutilation of the tail of the animal and more specifically in certain breeds of dog should be allowed. He asks us to support him because they say it's for the well-being of the dog, for his health. Faced with this, we say to the government and the PP that they do not, that they do not count on us; do not come to us with excuses, because, although we can agree on the welfare of the dog and in which the convention has become obsolete in some matters, given the progress of society in the last thirty years, it is worth noting that the convention itself already provided for the situation of possible non-healing surgical interventions on the animal for health reasons, provided that a veterinarian considers it so. This is marked in Article 10.2. We tell them not to come to us with excuses, because we are not going to support that an animal is mutated by its tail, neither for aesthetic reasons nor for arbitrary reasons, depending on whether its owner wants it or not, whether it seems aesthetic or not. Nor is the dog's protection excuse worth in case it faces other prey in hunting activities; neither foxes nor wolves, the ancestors of dogs, are cut off their tail, and there we have them, facing the worst of beasts: the human being, and above trying to survive. Moreover, different veterinary studies establish a higher probability that a pet will see damaged its tail flow... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u70	Wait a minute, Your Honor. Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u71	... by domestic accidents, such as, for example, by getting caught with a door, which by hunting activities. Deep down on the subject, in different countries with great hunting tradition having the dog with the tail cut is synonymous that its owners are of low social status, so most hunting dogs have their tail intact. You see, ladies and gentlemen, what a valuable argument not to cut the dog's ass, the social status of its owners. But what's more, the government intends to sell us that for the welfare of the dog we cut its tail by risking that the animal will suffer the following damage. First, chronic pain for life; but we're gonna cut his ass off. Second, life-long locomotion problems, since the tail is used for the dog's balance, stability, and agility; but we're going to cut the tail off the dog's tail. Third, we put you at a high perioperative risk because you have to undergo an anesthesia; but we're going to cut the dog's tail. Fourthly, the dog may suffer major problems in healing and infections due to its mutilation; but we're going to cut the dog's ass. Fifthly, we also risk subjecting him to communication problems. Of all of you, ladies and gentlemen, it is known that dogs use their tails to communicate - either out of fear, curiosity or joy - but again the People's Party and the government want us to cut their tails off the dog. It is going to be that no; not with the help of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and no more, as I say, which is set out in Article 10.2 which allows mutilation to be carried out, for reasons of health or non-healing, and as long as a veterinarian considers it to be possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I inform you, because you do not know it, that the Universal Declaration of the Rights of Animals clearly states that no animal will be subjected to cruel abuse, and cutting their ass off on the whim of its owners is cruel abuse. I also inform you - because, given your proposal, you seem not to know it - that here in our country there are seven autonomous communities with laws more restrictive than the current convention and, in addition, different political signs: Andalusia, Aragon, Catalonia, Madrid, Murcia, Navarre and Valencia. I would also like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government and the PP, that the Treaty on European Union has for years abandoned the status of animals as things to determine, that they are sentient beings, with intrinsic value in themselves and deserving of adequate social and legal protection for such recognition, without exception. I would also like to tell you that the reservation and subsequent transactional that they presented directly contradicts the five freedoms proclaimed by the World Organisation for Animal Health, to which Spain is a party. Doesn't that seem a little incoherent to you? For all that, and because we believe that we are a more advanced civilization, we are going to vote in favour of the ratification of the European Convention on the protection of pet animals, without any kind of reservation or transactional. We want the whole dogs, with their tail included. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u72	Thank you very much. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa, took part in the round of fixing positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course I am going to speak and lay down a position on the tails of the dogs in order to announce to them at the outset that we are going to vote against the reservation and in favour of the adoption of the convention as a whole. But let me use this precious time - as a member of the Joint Group one values each second - to put this agreement into context. Last week, ladies and gentlemen - the President presided over this ceremony - we celebrated Spain's forty years of access to the Council of Europe and during these forty years the conventions, the legal instruments that the Council of Europe has brought to Spanish legislation, have done nothing but increase standards of quality of life, European standards, standards of improvement in our legislation. As has been rightly pointed out, this is a 1987 convention which has now been ratified by 23 Member States of the forty-seven Council of Europe. To be more precise, they have not only ratified it but have entered into force in twenty-three States, and we are talking about countries as diverse as Austria, Azerbaijan, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Romania, Serbia, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey and Ukraine. And in the midst of all this, a 1987 agreement signed by Spain in 2015 - a year with two elections and no possibility of ratification - and thirty years later we faced the debate on a very well articulated text, very well raised, and that does nothing more than provide quality of life standards regarding pet animals or prevent the incorporation of wild fauna as pet animals. This is also the case with the convention, which speaks in very detail about the problem linked to the trade in pet animals, the conditions of animal health and welfare, the responsible conduct by the owners who are in charge of pet animals and, as has been pointed out, ladies and gentlemen, there are already in several autonomous communities - I am speaking on behalf of the Partit Democrata Català - and there is already Catalan legislation which, by far, welcomes this agreement and even broadens the bases, and which in no case contemplates the possibility of this exceptionality of the cutting of the tails of dogs, as this reservation says, in the case of puppies of hunting races and their crosses. Ladies and gentlemen, our standards on the protection of human rights are in line with this European convention and they are in line not to accept the reservation. At the time, when animalist debates arose in Catalonia and some thought that animalist debate was an identity debate, we said: no, this debate will one day reach the General Courts, one day it will reach the Congress and the Senate; the animalist debate on the attitude of legislation to respect for animals and on the quality of life of animals is not an identity issue, it is a topic of our European standards. Welcome, therefore, this adoption, this incorporation into Spanish legislation of an agreement 30 years ago, signed by Spain in 2015, and the result of these two consecutive elections, not ratified by Congress until March 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the reservations raised by other countries: Germany, Azerbaijan, Denmark, Greenland - look separately from Denmark - France, Latvia, Portugal and the Czech Republic, and none of them contemplates this specificity, which would be a terribly Spanish specificity, of leaving out of the material scope of this convention the hunter puppies and their crosses. We are going to vote in favour of the agreement, we are going to vote in favour of the two instruments that allow us to reject the reservation, the PSOE proposal and the Podemos proposal - let me say in passing, and elegantly, that we welcome the amendment of the Republican Left quickly and quickly on Twitter at 24 hours - and, as has been pointed out, I hope that this can be approved unanimously. It would be a good signal to the forty-seven member States of the Council that we are honouring the obligations of international conventions. Thank you very much, Madam President. One cannot complain because, with the aim of saving Parliament, I have taken a minute and a half; what is needed. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u74	Thank you very much. One minute and twenty-five, to be more accurate. Thank you very much, Mr. Xuclà. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. Good morning. The convention we are about to ratify will be 30 years old next November. In 1987, Philip Gonzalez ruled Spain and some of you - damn you - were not born. A servant of yours played rugby, had tupé and attended veterinary studies. It's rained enough for González to follow Aznar, Aznar to follow Zapatero, and this Rajoy, some with a double. [[Pointing to the banks on the left]] [[Marking the banks on the right]] [[Remarking the banks on the left]] [[Marking the banks on the right again]] It's rained a lot. Today we are bringing to plenary the European Convention on the protection of pet animals in Strasbourg, I insist, in November 1987, which will soon be thirty years old. Competition in the area of autonomic animal welfare according to the Constitution has been advanced in the case of a few communities, few, not all, in seven out of seventeen, if I am not mistaken. Not all of them strictly limit the amputation of the dogs' tail. The rest of the autonomous communities are not and have been expected for more than thirty years. In many of them they have ruled parties that today, at last, we hope to give their approval to the convention without having done anything about it. As far as Catalonia is concerned, Article 116 of the Statute has been in force since 1988 on the protection and welfare of animals, which has even forced the adoption of consolidated texts. Amputation has been banned in Catalonia for many years. Seen from this strictly autonomous point of view, our comfortable attitude would have been that with their bread they eat it, that we not only already have a law, but, as you know, we go back to the summer. Our animalistic sensibility, perhaps a misinterpretation of the principle of lesser evil and above all the recognition of the poor will of the autonomous and large Spanish parties to legislate on protection that demonstrates, for example, the lateness that today... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u76	One second, Mr. Capdevila. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please. Go on now.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u77	He said that the finding of the poor will of the autonomous and large Spanish political parties to legislate on protection, which demonstrates the lateness that we are showing today, leads us to contemplate the transaction of the exception to limit barbarity even more strictly than in Germany, France or Denmark, countries where it is also exceptionable. Given how bad we have explained ourselves, personally how bad I have explained myself and in view of the fact that the main Spanish animalist entities prefer a regulation of maximums, we will give our support to the full validation of the text of the convention. Point and apart. Today we take a step and its importance only in time we can assess it objectively. I wish it was a lot because there's still a lot to do. To begin with, ensure that the authority and its agents comply with and enforce the written provisions of the legal order. We also hope that the PSOE will keep the fierce warrior from now on that he demonstrates today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to start this speech without congratulating the Dutch for having defeated the engine of Europe's evils: nationalism and populism. [[Applauds]] In short, Holland has overcome fear with the victory of Rutte's liberals. Mr. Churches, I was listening to myself in you, something I never thought would happen. [[The Lord]] As for the convention, ladies and gentlemen, it has been thirty years since this convention was drafted and it has taken us thirty years to bring this convention to Congress for validation. It has been thirty years in which citizens have increased their concern for the welfare of animals in general, thirty years in which Spaniards in this area have been better and have gone ahead of their representatives. If it were up to some, they would ban mammoth hunting today. It is good that this rule is brought here, but it is obsolete in many respects, because in thirty years Spain and Europe have changed a lot. The desire to treat animals better is already a desire of the Spaniards. We understand it as an obligation derived from empathy, which is a strictly human quality, and so whoever tortures or harms an animal unnecessarily is not only dangerous to these defenseless beings, but is often a danger to society. How many psychopaths and sociopaths have started their blood races with animal torture? They're countless. Returning to the treaty and regarding Podemos' amendment, I will teach you three consecutive headlines published in the press and the show offered last week. Title of 6 March 2017 : Congress agrees on the prohibition of cutting the tail by aesthetics. [[ABC]] This headline was the result of the haste, since nothing had been voted on firmly. What happens is that when it comes to dealing with these issues, which some consider to be sanctuary themes - private sanctuary, by the way - they rush. Holder of March 8 : The PP gets with the support of Squerra Republicana de Catalunya that the amputation of dog tails remains legal. [[eldiario.es]] Let's say that Esquerra was re-conquered and on March 9 the following headline takes place: Esquerra dissects and will vote against cutting the ass of dogs at the next plenary session of the Congress. [[Europe Press]] As a fictional series what happened is priceless, but it's a subject that many people are waiting for, so let's not get frivolized. These dances can lead to a good cause being damaged in the end. Let us be serious because animal protection is a serious issue. We wanted to promote agreement between the various parliamentary groups because we know that love for animals has no political ideology, but is a cross-cutting issue. To vote unanimously, as the Group of the European People's Party called for, we must want it. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group worked unanimously when it recently proposed the change of the civil regime for pets, that is, that they were sensitive and not considered as things, that they could not be seized or executed as an appliance in a judicial process. We had to negotiate a lot and wanted to do the same with the reservation of the amputation of the tail of the dogs, to negotiate in such a way that it was a residual practice and for strictly veterinary reasons, which was also the will of some of the members, who then had to rectify with practices to which I am not going to refer now. What they were looking for was that there would be no difficulty in assuming this rule by the autonomous communities, which are ultimately going to have to rule on this issue, but I cannot be. We again tried to reach an agreement to bring unanimity back to this House on these issues, something important for them to move forward and not lose the positive momentum in favour of animal rights, but neither could it be. That is why we will abstain from the amendment, although we will vote in favour of incorporating this treaty into our system, but, of course, because it dates back to 1987, there are many things that have changed. That is why we have proposed a framework law for the entire national territory, which should contain measures for the effective identification of animals throughout the national territory - today it is not so - that the various police, protectors and veterinarians can read the chips, regardless of the autonomous community to which the lost or abandoned animal belongs. It is necessary to avoid the exposure of animals in windows and not to be given as a reward or reward, so that the purchase by impulse is avoided and an animal reaches a home where they are not prepared to host it, because it is also to help the animal welfare not to have one when it cannot be cared for. A record of offenders must be made so that those who are capable of torturing, abandoning or killing an animal cannot re-live or work with one. They're people who are dangerous to life. Let us work and negotiate; let no one believe that this is a matter of a party; let it be what and not who, especially so that the one who cannot lead the Spaniards into deception, who are those who through signatures, demonstrations and actions on social networks have given us the mandate to work in the line of animal welfare; let the ego of a few not obscure the work of many. Finally, I would like to recall what he said in Immanuel Kant so that all the members of this House keep him in mind in the political action on this issue. The Prussian philosopher said that a man's heart can be judged by the treatment of animals. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Bernabé Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The first thing we must do in this matter is to focus the debate. There is a reality that is unquestionable and that we cannot avoid. In Spain there are about one million hunters registered in their respective federations and it is estimated that there is approximately another million more than, without being federated, usual hunting practice. Two million of our compatriots are hunters, many of whom have dogs that accompany them in their work; dogs that in a large number are regularly practiced the cutting of the tail and on many occasions without any kind of control. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the objective reality of departure and the one we must bear in mind. We have two options in front of that. One is that of well-intentioned goodism which has been defended here today, and which we all share but which we sincerely believe does not really solve the problem. The other is the one adopted by the Government and the one supported by the People's Parliamentary Group, which is to take effective measures to protect animals, their integrity and their rights, in which we will all agree. We sincerely and honestly believe that the reservation to article 10.1 achieves that objective. The reservation includes four key points. The first is that any type of cutting or mutilation motivated by aesthetic reasons is strictly prohibited. None of those things that you quoted, Mr. Churches, and that we all reject could be carried out. Only the cut of the tail would be allowed. Secondly, the cutting of the tail would be allowed only in breeds that are considered hunting by the International Federation of Dogs, not in general for all breeds of dogs; it would be limited exclusively to these. Thirdly, it could not be done at any age of the animal, only when it was puppies with the aim of minimizing to the maximum the discomforts in the can. Finally, the most important of all, and which relates to the first thing I have said about the lack of control with which these practices are carried out, is that it should always be done under the prescription, supervision and direct operation of a veterinarian with the sedated and anesthetized animal so that it suffers absolutely nothing and in accordance with the optional protocols approved by the Superior Council of Veterinarians. With this, ladies and gentlemen, do not think that in the People's Party government we are discovering gunpowder. It's not that. This is before we have already approved it by Germany, France, Denmark, Portugal and other European nations; by the way, countries with very little suspicion of animal savagery. Why did you do it like that? For three fundamental reasons. The first is that it is about protecting animals that are going to have certain damage in the future: hunting dogs, dogs that enter burrows, dogs that enter areas of zarzas and thorns, dogs that are injured in the development of their kinegetic activity, as is evidenced by multiple studies that collect it. Secondly, because it is not only about protecting dogs, but also about protecting the people who have them, care for them and want them. The whip effect exists. They are strong and powerful dogs, hunting dogs who do not control the movement of their ass and who, driven by impulses, regularly harm their caregivers. Thirdly, what is most important and where is the key to this matter is that with the reservation of Article 10.1 we are narrowing down, limiting and making infinitely more secure Article 10.2 because, if not, ladies and gentlemen, Article 10.2 becomes a tailor's drawer in which everything belongs. It is enough for a veterinarian to say that it is good to cut off the ear, that it is good to remove the flaps, that it is good to perform any type of intervention for approval. If we approve 10.1, no; the interpretation of Article 10.2 is now restricted and we cannot get out of it. That is the fundamental reason, that is why we understand that the reservation must prosper. [[Applauds]] I insist, it is a matter of mere legal logic. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to maintain the defence of the reservation and ask all of you to reflect on this which I have told you and to vote next. We ask you to be brave, Lords of Citizens, we ask you to pass from abstention to yes. We know that you know this very well. We ask you to be brave and others, in addition, we ask you to be consistent. Mr. Capdevila, you are a magnificent veterinarian - I know - and also very good person. This document bears your signature and mine, is the text of the reservation that we have agreed. [[shows it.]] This document protects animals, narrows down and limits the scope of action; this document, you know perfectly well, is a positive reality for the dog sector. That's why we're asking you and your group to respect what they signed because it's going to be positive, as we all certainly know. Ladies and gentlemen, let the trees not prevent them from seeing the forest, let the noise around them not close their ears. They're going to thank tens of thousands of dogs in this country, their owners and also a lot of veterinarians. Make no mistake, this is the best way to protect our animals. Thank you very much and good morning. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Barnabas.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u83	We turn to the last item on the agenda concerning the opinions of the Joint Committee on Relations with the Court of Auditors on the declarations on the General Account of the State for the financial years 2013 and 2014, as well as the resolutions adopted by the Joint Committee on Relations with the Court of Auditors and which, as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, will be discussed jointly. Mr Bel Accensi is first and foremost involved in the position-setting exercise by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u84	Thank you very much. President, ladies and gentlemen, indeed, we are going to focus the 2013 and 2014 general account on a debate that surely gives a lot to go on. In any case, these are general accounts that correspond to budgets approved by the People's Party and settled by the People's Party. Therefore, here we cannot blame ourselves on an inheritance of poorly prepared budgets as we had heard on other occasions. First question. I must admit that there is some improvement, but within this certain improvement I put only one reference - I will move between 2013 and 2014-. In 2013, of the 159 entities that make up the public administrative sector, 27 are not included in the general account, 17 %. Of the 218 entities comprising the public business sector, 28 entities - for different reasons, because they are presented late, because they are not presented - do not integrate the general account, 13% and of the 47 entities in the public foundational sector, 7 - for different reasons - 15% do not integrate the general account. If the General Administration of the State does not comply, what example is it giving to the rest of the administrations? With what face is Mr Montoro going to ask the local administration and the autonomous administration to comply? If there are approximately 15 % of non-compliant entities that do not submit their accounts or do not do so on time, how can they require it? In turn, the accountability and presentation of the general account in Parliament serves to make an assessment. You know perfectly well what this is, it's the yellow budget book I guess in a few weeks' time you're going to introduce us to 2017. [[Show a book]] What did the 2013 and 2014 set? I am not going to be exhaustive in the analysis: I set deficit targets for the General Administration of the State and Social Security at 3.8%, which are subsequently modified and increased by 1.4% for Social Security and which after they fail. This is what we're analyzing here. The aim is to blame the autonomous communities and local corporations to a lesser extent for non-compliance with deficit targets. The deficit targets set out in these books are those we find today that have not been met. And has a good budgetary practice been made? Because we also need to look at the government's budgetary praxis. I read you about 2013 and 2014. Yellow Paper 2013, page 102, defence: for defence policy will be allocated 5,786 million, 7.2% less than in 2012. Yellow Paper 2014, page 108, defense: for the defense policy will be allocated 2,654 million euros, 2.3% less than in 2013, in line with the effort that from the General Administration of the State is being carried out to reduce the public deficit and achieve the objective of budgetary stability. Do you know what the reality of the budget implementation of these two budgets has been in the defence section? In 2013, budgetary changes amounting to EUR 1.930 million. In 2014, budgetary changes of EUR 1,903 million. That is to say, budgetary changes reaching one third of the initial budgets. Can you explain to me whether this is a good budget execution? They are well aware that they have not and not only been drawn to their attention by political groups but also by the courts and must pay attention to them. Now we'll see in 2017, when we get the defense budget, whether it's a realistic defense budget or whether it's a defense budget - as it's always been over the last ten years, and I'm not going back - absolutely underrated. The credibility of the budgets is not demonstrated in their presentation, the credibility of the budgets is demonstrated in their implementation. And when you have had to change your budget repeatedly by 33% in any of the aspects, it is either you don't know how to budget or you don't want to do it according to the reality you have. What they cannot do in the presentation of each of the yellow books is to boast that the defence budget is being reduced to achieve the fiscal consolidation objectives, because perhaps with these €2 billion less in each of the liquidated budgets the fiscal consolidation objectives that were not met in the two years would have been met. Thus, the Court of Auditors' report gives many examples. Has anything improved over the past few years? Yes, I do, but very little. As far as budgetary deviations are concerned, in some respects not only has it not been improved but it has worsened substantially. Therefore, even if we disagree with some of the proposals approved in the Commission, as the development of the CORA, we will exercise our responsibility and approve the 2013 and 2014 State General Account. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Capella i Farré has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u86	Good morning. Gentlemen of the People's Party, do you really believe in the Court of Auditors? The Court of Auditors' report is like the day of the marmot: report after report the same proposals and recommendations are repeated by the court and systematically are ignored by government agencies. Above all, the People's Party has the cynicism to present motions for resolutions to each of the reports submitted by the court. In addition, we are told: to accept the contents of the above-mentioned report as well as its conclusions and recommendations. Obviously, it's obvious. It would only be lacking if the Government did not take on board the contents of the above-mentioned report and its conclusions and recommendations. The problem is that then you do not comply, thus certifying the credibility that you give to that court. If you take it seriously, there should be a cascade of sanctioning files and cessations. The Court of Auditors' report is a true catalogue of misconceptions. Technicians detect all kinds of irregularities, by using the euphemisms that you like so much, when it is not directly about illegalities. For starters, a quarter of the entities forming the general account present the accounts out of time, a fact that is repeated year after year, there has even been a public sector entity that has not even been held accountable. But most importantly, as far as the State's general budgets are concerned, are they going to be realistic? Are they going to comply with the letter, as a law that is, the State's general budgets? Are they going to heed the Court of Auditors' warnings regarding the illegitimate increase in military spending year after year? Because, ladies and gentlemen, what the opinion on the general account points out is two important things. First, a large part of the unjustified government waste. By the way, the Court of Auditors also explains how the autonomous communities have been financing the State since 2012. Secondly, the opinion on the general account points out the systematic failure, as previously stated, to comply with the State General Budgets Act. It is curious that it is you who systematically violate the law, when your mouth is filled every day recommending compliance with the law to the independenceists. What happens is that the reports of the Court of Auditors, unlike the judgments of some courts, in this case the Constitutional Court, do not disqualify them for failing to comply with decisions or for failing to comply with the law. Let us return to the debate. After more than a year, a statement of the State's general account from the Court of Auditors again passes through Congress, and you have held this court to a halt for a whole year because you have agreed to it. In fact, an entire legislature had kept it paralysed, during which they had no hesitation in discussing, for example, the Ombudsman's annual reports, while keeping the work carried out by the Court of Auditors hidden. It is up to us to thank the technical staff who carried out the work of the 2014 general account, which is presented for the first time as a consolidated single account, integrating not only entities belonging to the state public sector but also those belonging to the public sector. It is an important effort that we believe should be recognized. As previously progressed, technicians detected all kinds of irregularities. Let's look at some examples. For starters, there are aspects that affect formal irregularities but that denote a clear attitude of abandonment. At a minimum, of 396 entities forming the public sector, 5 entities have failed to report to the Court of Auditors through the General Intervention of the State Administration and 82 have done so out of time. Therefore, there are still entities that still do not submit their accounts or do so badly due to lack of formal requirements or do so out of time. A finding between the different treatment of these state agencies and any local government is that a file is opened to the local government when it fails to pay the accounts in time. We therefore urge the Government of the Kingdom of Spain to establish a sanctioning process for those managers of entities to whom the General Intervention of the State Administration denies the opinion in the audit report or gives an unfavourable opinion. We also urge the Government of the Kingdom of Spain to make a mandatory request to all entities, both within the scope of the General Administration of the State and of the autonomous public sector and of those local entities that have not surrendered their accounts within the legally established deadline. Another interesting chapter is the repeated use of credit changes by the Government of the Kingdom of Spain. Qualified credit changes under generic name, not defined in the General Budget Act, experienced a significant increase over the previous period, including, as noted above, credit changes to increase military spending, which have already been declared unconstitutional by another Constitutional Court. We are talking about almost 2 billion credits, 35% of the Ministry of Defence's budget, which you have intended to hide year after year. We will see this year how they are going to increase that 30% of military spending as social security goes down. The resolutions therefore urge the Ministry of Defence to adjust its budgets to reality. In any case, these are practices by the Government to conceal information. I'm finishing up because I don't have time left and I have more to say. In any case, the case studies include, for example, aspects as serious as pensions or the restructuring process of the bank. The opinion talks, in relation to pensions and the urgency of the Toledo Pact, about analysing the inadequacy of transfers from the State to social security for the coverage of expenses to be financed by the General Administration of the State. With regard to FROP and Sareb, the Court of Auditors indicates that there is insufficient information to know exactly what their assets are. In conclusion, this statement from the State's general account serves us to demonstrate that you, the Government of the Kingdom of Spain, the Government of the People's Party, have no interest in modernising the Administration and managing public accounts properly. They want any court to be at the mercy of their interests, and when the court tries to work independently, you limit their ability to act to the fullest. In any case, despite what I have said and made, we will vote in favour of this point. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs. Capella. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Ramírez Freire has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. This is the first time that many Members of this House are going to vote on the state's general accounts. With the peculiar circumstances that have been experienced in the last year and a half, we are going to launch by debating and voting on two of them, so they are going to allow me to structure my speech on three topics on which I will try to be brief and will not repeat the data provided by the speakers who have spoken before me. What is the State's general account? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u89	Wait a minute, Mr. Ramirez. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. The State's general account, as I told you, is drawn up each year through the General Intervention, to which the annual accounts of entities forming the State public sector are referred, and the Government raises these accounts and forwards them to the Court of Auditors before 31 October of each year for consideration by the Court. This general account, which seems to be a baladi element, is really of particular importance as it provides us with fundamental information on the financial and financial situation, as well as on the economic performance of the assets and the implementation of the budget of the state public sector. Some will think that it would be sufficient for the Government to have an audit of its own and nothing more, but, fortunately for us, our Constitution establishes in article 136 a more guarantee instrument and elements such as the check balance and the counterweight that in this case is the Court of Auditors, which are fundamental. The report of the Court of Auditors on the General Account of the State, called a declaration, puts the end to the budgetary process; a process in which this House has a predominant role. It is up to the General Courts, as you know, to examine, amend and approve the General Budgets of the State. By the way, gentlemen of the People's Party and the Government, we hope that these 2017 General State Budgets will be brought to this House as soon as possible so that we can study them, amend them and, if necessary, approve them. However, article 1 of the Organic Law 2/1982 of the Court of Auditors provides that the general account of the State has two functions: one, to supervise the accounts, and two, to monitor the economic management of the State. Are these two conditions fulfilled in the declarations of the general account of the State and are these objectives fulfilled? We understand that the documents that we find in the general accounts fulfil the first aspect in an outstanding way, however, we do miss a more comprehensive analysis of management and performance of the Administration. Furthermore - why not? - we could also ask the Court of Auditors to provide a monitoring report containing the sections of economic management analysis, which is commonly referred to as performance audit, and to establish with certain criteria apart from the criteria of legality, for example, the criteria of efficiency, economy, transparency, environmental sustainability and gender equality. What can we highlight from the 2013 and 2014 general accounts? Firstly, and not to repeat what the previous speakers have said to me at the speaking time, that between 2012 and 2014 the public debt increased by 25%, which, of course, has just happened once and for all with the myth of the fantastic economic management of the People's Party. It is true that this increase in public debt can be explained by the famous three funds: the FLA, the Autonomic Liquidity Fund, the FROB, the Orderly Bank Restructuring Fund, and the Fund for the financing of payments to suppliers. It is also true that they say that when the low tide is seen who was swimming naked, thus, between 2013 and 2014 it is clear that the cost of the misgovernment of the administrations and in the savings boxes has cost us all Spanish 164 billion euros. Since I do not want to repeat myself in the data given by both Mr Bel and Mrs Capella, in addition to what is included in the general accounts for 2013 and 2014, I will focus mainly on two elements. One is the Social Security Reserve Fund. In the 2013 general account audits, it is clear that the fund amounted to €52,539 million. During that year provisions of 11,648 million were made, which would mean that from 2014 we would have 36,595 million. If we compare this data with 2014, it is clear that this fund has been reduced to the amount of 19,325 and today assumes that in this year 2017 the famous extraordinary payments apart from the Social Security reserve account funds cannot be paid. Therefore, we again fall into the same: the repeated non-compliance of public managers in the management of funds and flows of all. Similarly, as the previous speakers have said, amounts are still erroneously charged in other years and, as we know, they continue to fall into a clear violation of the General Budget Act when it comes to making changes to the appropriations approved. All this leads us to think that these accounts could have been better done, although we are moving slowly towards a generalized change. In the 2014 accounts we must congratulate ourselves because, as has been said, they are the first to come as a consolidated single account, which means an extension of the subjective scope covering more entities and finally complying with the repeated recommendations of the Court of Auditors and the resolutions adopted by the Court of Auditors. Let me end our motions for resolutions and the changes that have taken place in the debate within the Joint Committee of the Court of Auditors. Citizens made several motions for resolutions that were incorporated into the final opinions, including establishing a sanctioning process for public managers who receive a negative audit. It is time to be sharp with the lack of strict compliance with regulations and legislation! We cannot afford to allow public managers who continually fail to comply with existing legislation. [[Applauds]] We believe that an optimal starting point would be Law 19/2013, which already includes as a very serious sanction the dismissal of the position it holds - unless it had already ceased - and of course the disqualification to hold a high position in the next five years. On the other hand, the members of the People's Party rejected our proposals to move forward with a plan to amortize the millions' outstanding debts for decades between Social Security and the General Administration of the State, which are now 26,000 million that have been buried, and thus conceal the real situation of Social Security. Nor have we achieved the support of the People's Party for our proposal to reduce the accumulated debt in the accounts receivable from the General Administration of the State. Yesterday Mr Bravo - I do not locate him here - said in the Joint Committee of the Court of Auditors that the Tax Agency, unfortunately, does not have the resources to continue to fight tax fraud in the best and most favourable way. I would tell Mr Bravo that he could tell the members of his Government and the members of his party to put these resources at once and for all so that the Tax Agency can carry out this work optimally. [[Applauds]] Finally, Citizens included in the opinions to urge the Court of Auditors to monitor and monitor the measures of the CORA reports, in particular with regard to the rationalization and liquidation of public sector entities. The People's Party is filled with talk of economic management, of managing public accounts, and they say that savings of 35 billion have been made through the CORA. Well, we hope that the Court of Auditors will verify these amounts and that it will carry out a critical and constructive follow-up. I'm done, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion: positive steps are being taken and we are on our way and, as the poet said, when we look back we must not see the path, but we must see the practices that we will never have to do again when they are negative. [[Applauds]] Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramírez. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr González García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are here today, 16 March 2017, seeing budget implementation reports for the years 2013 and 2014. We are not going to abound today on formal issues that we already appreciate at the time in the Joint Committee on Relations with the Court of Auditors, but we would like to point out obvious issues that need to be improved in the aspects relating to the general account. It is necessary to reduce the reporting and processing times in the Commission, to increase the expected information of the entities forming part of the general account and to warn that there are entities that inexplicably remain unaccounted for in the general account despite the many requests made by the Court of Auditors to the Government. And some of them are not minor, such as the Hydrographic Confederation of the Tagus or that of the Segura, which between the two... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u93	Wait a minute, Mr. González. Ladies and gentlemen, please, I ask you to remain silent. We are at the end of the morning surely a very intense week and a very intense plenary, but the speaker is the one we have to listen to. Please, be quiet. I know that there are some Members who are familiar with these words as Chinese, but I would ask you, please, that if you want to have discussions and debates, which are certainly more interesting than what you think is happening here, you should do it outside the Chamber. Thank you very much. Go on, Mr. González.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Perhaps the gentlemen of the PP are nervous because they are going to lose the vote of the real-decree of the greenhouse that we are going to perform in a few moments. It's understandable. [[Applauds]] As I said, there are important entities that remain unaccounted for, such as the Tagus Hydrographic Confederation or that of Segura, which between the two amount to EUR 46 million, and the Government constantly rejects the Court of Auditors in its recommendations. It is true that the Court of Auditors has quite a few shortcomings - which we hope will be able to remedy during this parliamentary term - which have already been pointed out by the peer review report of the European Court of Auditors and the Portuguese in 2015 and which are also pointed out by the technicians, who, by the way, carry out excellent monitoring work. Some of these issues are the politicization of the council or the abuse of procedures of free appointment when making contracts. Yesterday the Supreme Court for the sixth time condemned the Court of Auditors for a case of nepotism, and this is intolerable in an institution that has to oversee the rest of the public sector institutions. Furthermore, we believe that it is important for the Court of Auditors to include management audit practices, i.e. that, in addition to auditing that public sector entities comply with accounting legality procedures, they also audit how these resources have been carried out and how budget implementation has been carried out. That is important in 2013 and 2014, but also throughout the PP legislature, because one of the usual guidelines of this government and its budgetary wizard, the Minister of Finance Mr Montoro, who are constantly repeating themselves is to resort to procedures to hide budgetary practices that then we can only see in the execution. These usual and recurring procedures are extraordinary credit changes and budget failure. Appropriation changes are those in the budget that the Government decrees once approved; a mechanism that is supposedly used to meet exceptional and unplanned expenses, but which the Government repeatedly uses to camouflage the budget. The clearest example, as everyone knows and has already commented, is the defence budget. The total of the defence budget changes that take place annually throughout the PP legislature reach 30% of the initial budget. While taking on the biggest cuts in history in social spending items, the defence budget went off, but not in the budget they presented here, but in August to avoid public scrutiny. While Spain was on vacation, Mr Montoro presented a decree amending the budget to increase the defence budget. Mr Montoro's good trick, the problem is that Mr Montoro is not Tamariz and we are not talking about a collection of packages with a launch offer; we are talking about the State General Budgets and Mr Montoro is the finance minister of the fourth euro area economy, and this is a shame that cannot be tolerated any longer. This budgetary practice has recently been met with the Court of Auditors, which has declared it unconstitutional because it considers that these expenditure is foreseen from the beginning of the financial year and should be included in the budget. But this is not the only trick, the other trick that is even more crude, if any, is that of budget failure. In 2013, the non-execution was 6 %; in 2014, 5 %; but in 2016 it hit records with the non-availability agreements, which meant, for example, that in November last year the budget for real items had an implementation of only 55 %. This leads to arbitrary investment cuts totalling some €5.4 billion, which have been extended over the three months of this year. This is the explanation for why there are investments in infrastructure that are important for many autonomous communities that, although included in the budget, are not being implemented. These are covert cuts by the People's Party and Mr Montoro. In short, while they are waiting for the PNV and PSOE to complete their decision on how they will support these general budgets, which in essence they have already supported by voting in favour of the expenditure ceiling at the end of last year, the Government is systematically failing not only to comply with the General Budget Act but also with the Constitution itself, which states that the General State Budgets will include all public sector expenditures and revenues and states that it is for the General Courts, not the Government, to review, amend and approve them. Mr Montoro's shameful deception distorts the budgetary process. The abuse and generalization of these opaque practices turn the budget into mere wet paper. We are waiting for them to present the general budgets at once, not only to present an amendment to the whole of it, but also an amendment to the whole of its economic management; an infamous and cumbersome economic management that has only served to deepen the path that leads us towards underdevelopment, with an unparalleled social and productive gap in our history. But even if they are not approved, the Government has an obligation to replenish vacancies in public employment, update salaries and raise pensions. He cannot use millions of people as hostages to his budgets. So stop dizzinessing, comply with the law, and do your job. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u95	Thank you very much, Mr González. For the Socialist Group, Mr Hurtado Zurera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u96	Thank you, President. Good afternoon now. If the first point, that of the stables, was the red one, and that of the dogs, which my companion Zaida carried, was the green one, this is the grey one because the ones that come are two very late accounts, two accounts of a new stage of an absolute majority government of the People's Party. They are accounts that are presented according to the court in time and form, that have taken time to arrive here, that is the last step to be approved, as a result of a failed legislature, and that have not had observations of accounting responsibility on the part of the lawyers or by the prosecutor's office. But these accounts have something positive that I am going to put on the table, and it is in particular that there has been an advance: in 2014 the consolidated single account is presented for the first time. Progress has also been made in terms of representativeness, because the number of entities that have integrated has increased: in 2013 there were twenty-seven entities in the administrative public sector that were not integrated and in 2014 there have been five; there has been one advance, still insufficient, but one advance. And I want to highlight another development that is the result of the work of the technicians of the General Intervention of the State and of the Court of Auditors itself, which is the progress in the homogenisation of the procedures and processes that are included in the operations of the general accounts. The Socialist Group obviously does not agree with other very important issues, namely - and they are tangible results - that Parliament should move from points to points on the general account, which does not go into exhaustive detail, and above all that the control that we can do is purely of legality; we cannot provide - and the government does not provide - objective data that can be assessed to determine the controls on efficiency, efficiency, economy, environmental sustainability and gender equality. They cannot be assessed and therefore we cannot be satisfied with the accounts presented. As for the results, we are going to approve, as a formal element, the general account, but we cannot give consent or approval to what has been the management of this general account. The general account reflects the capital position of these two financial years, the economic and financial activity carried out during these two financial years, and what are the budgetary settlements. The Court of Auditors itself shows that the budgets approved in its day by the absolute majority of the People's Party are not rigorous. In particular, the budgetary changes in 2013 were €51 billion of the consolidated, and then in 2014 they were €30 billion. They are excessive and the Court of Auditors itself says that this means little rigour when it comes to budgeting. We have intensive discussions on budgets, and many of them are not credible, because they are then not implemented as planned. On the other hand, we cannot agree with the management of the budgets. Here some cases have been mentioned, for example, 33 % of budgetary change in defence. But neither have EUR 1.9 billion been spent on R & D+i that were budgeted, which was fundamental to us. And in 2013, 788 million euros were also spent on R & D+i. We cannot agree that it was EUR 260 million that stopped spending on employment promotion; in a country that so much needs to promote employment, guidance, training and mediation, we cannot leave EUR 260 million unused. Moreover, we cannot agree with the result shown in these budgets, a consolidated negative deficit result for non-financial operations, which have been in total very high: EUR 30 billion in 2013 and about EUR 20 billion in 2014. It is a considerable, excessive deficit, so we cannot agree either. The court itself also mentions two issues that are significant in terms of the financial management that has been done in this country: it shows that there have been 152.8 billion euros more of public debt, there has been an increase in public debt in this country during those two years by 25%. We owe more to the financial markets, we are more dependent on the financial markets, so they can squeeze us even more into what can be our own sovereignty at the moment of managing public resources. On the other hand, the Guarantee Fund, in particular the Social Security Reserve Fund, has been reduced by EUR 33,000 million, and 42% has been spent during these two years 2013 and 2014. This means that the social security deficit has been so high that we have had to deal with the pension fund, the pensioners' money, the social security contributors' money, and we have consistently denounced it as active and passive. We therefore believe that the 150 proposals that have been put forward, which have been adopted and are in the opinion, are necessary to reduce the time limits and to make this point no longer grey and much more up-to-date, much more lively. But, on the other hand, it is also about updating the procedures, the management of inventories to improve the management of assets; it is about establishing more understandable systems in the public accounts, which can be given more publicity so that citizens at all times know what the public account means, what the general account of the State means, know what the State spends its own resources on. There are therefore many objectives to be improved, there are many progress that we have to make, but the most important thing is that the presentation of a draft budget is approaching and I ask the People's Party that when it presents this draft, we should not have to hear again from the Court of Auditors that they are unreliable, that they are not rigorous, but that when the budgets are presented they are rigorous and that they can represent the policies to be carried out and that they serve as a commitment for the development of those policies. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u97	Thank you very much, Mr Hurtado. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Juncal Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to finish parliamentary proceedings in Congress for the 2013 and 2014 general accounts. I would like to say to your ladies and gentlemen that we are not in a general economic policy debate, but in an analysis of the picture obtained by the Court of Auditors from the general account, in which obviously... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u100	... situations or events arising from political actions present or previous appear photographed. The first fact that must be highlighted - as has already been mentioned here and I will not stand much longer - is that the formulation has changed. To have three general accounts: the administrative public sector, the corporate public sector and the foundational public sector, one general account was consolidated in 2014. If I refer to the statements made by the Court of Auditors, which says that the 2013 budget was received within the legally established deadline, which presents the structure provided for in the provisions that are applicable, with some exceptions that we will comment on later, and which is coherent internally. In 2014, the court's opinion, except for the exceptions included, is that it faithfully presents in all its significant aspects the financial financial position, changes in net assets, cash flows, exercise results and settlement, in accordance with the rules. That is, that except for a series of exceptions or exceptions that we will analyze, the result of the photograph obtained by the Court of Auditors is real, it is not made up, we will like or not the content, and of course already advance you that the People's Party there are parameters and data that we do not like and we would like them to be otherwise, but the economic reality and the situation of the country has been and is the one that has been, and therefore is reflected. In those discrepancies and repetitions that occur in the 2013 and 2014 accounts, I wanted to point out what has also been said here, that there are some entities that are not included in the overall account of that system. What part does it represent in the total budget? It accounts for 1,984 million, that is to say 0,45 % - I repeat, 0,45 % - of the 2013 budgets. In 2014, of the 396 entities that had to be consolidated, 14 remain out and have consolidated 382. If we apply the criterion of relative importance, we think of the volume of general budgets, although censorable and certainly correctable in the future, it is not a matter of scandal. It is also repeatedly shown that the initial forecasts for Chapter 9 of financial liabilities are not included. This is a logical situation; the ministerial departments manage the expenditure budget, not the revenue budget. That is done through the Directorate-General for Financial Policy and the Treasury, and it does not have to determine a priori the amount of public debt it will need to cover its obligations. It covers it according to the treasury situation and issuing debt if it is sufficient. As regards the modification of appropriations, which has also been mentioned here, in 2013 it accounted for 8% of total operations, but, Mr Bel, in Catalonia it amounted to 38.8%. I believe that anyone here who has gone through the local, regional or national administration knows the difficulties and therefore the credit changes that need to be made, because it is not possible to make the land available for a work, the review report, new costs that arise, etc. In 2014 the change is 4%, 24,329 million. In any event, the Court of Auditors notes that all the amendments have complied with the requirements and limitations of the General Budget Act. There are also discrepancies in the cut-off that if one year is charged for expenses that should be the previous year, and if the expenses generated in that year are charged to the next. There is one thing that is clear, and that is that the accounting criterion, the principle of accrual, governs, but in budgetary accounting there is another criterion set out in Article 34. Therefore we will always have a difference there that is perfectly reflected in the accounts. As regards the implementation of the budget, both in 2013, which amounts to 93,7 %, and in 2014, which amounts to 95 %, they are fairly reasonable figures of compliance. And the court points out that the policy of expenditure containment has been fundamentally neutralized, as already mentioned, but that it is cited in a negative way, with the amounts to three funds: the FLA, the Autonomic Liquidity Fund, the Bank Ordered Restructuring Fund and the Fund to finance the payment to suppliers, which amounted to 42.130 million. Given this situation - the allocation of these funds is criticized here - what would be the approach, not going to finance the autonomous communities or not going to solve the banking problem? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u101	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u102	Does the payment to suppliers, which in some way collapsed to entrepreneurs, not receive the amounts owed to them? We were in a situation of deficit, because I remind Mr Hurtado that you left us a deficit of 11% and, as the President said yesterday, up to 4.6% has meant going through these years, as I say sometimes, in a situation of war economy. We are already seeing the gifts that fell each year from the economic situation. [[Applauds]] Logically, when the number of jobs has fallen, it has been necessary to pull the hatch, and the assets are not sufficient to meet the total pension amounts. I'm gonna finish it. They understand that it is impossible to synthesize 200,000 million per minute in view of the time I have been given, but I will finish, Mr President, and I will do so with another of the repeated issues: the consolidation of the Radio Television accounts in SEPI. SEPI has one criterion, the board of directors is appointed by this House, the budget is drawn up by the board, and according to the rules of corporate law it has no dominion over Radiotelevision, which is why the accounts are not consolidated. 59 and 56 draft resolutions of the 2013 and 2014 reports have been adopted, respectively, with a view to making the implementation of the overall account increasingly clear, clear and homogeneous, correcting the actions that give rise to these exceptions with the issue of inventories and accountability by all agencies, extending the accounts, correctly applying accounting reprocessing, and deepening the analysis of the relationship between productivity, efficiency and time frames. With this I would like to say, for what has been announced by all the speakers, that it will be adopted unanimously, and I stress again that this is the picture of reality and the Government has complied. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Juncal Rodriguez. After the debate on the items on the agenda, we shall begin the voting in three minutes. Thank you very much. [[Pausa. - (FR) Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council takes the Chair.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote will begin. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence. First, we will vote for the validation or repeal of Royal Decree Law 4/2017 of 24 February, amending the workers' regime for the provision of port cargo handling service, implementing the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 11 December 2014 in case C576/13, infringement procedure 2009/4052. The vote will begin. [[Pausa.-The result of the vote appears in the electronic panels.-Extended applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist parliamentary groups, Confederal de Unidos Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea y Esquerra Republicana, standing, looking at the Public Tribuna.-Some Members show T-shirts in which you read 'No step back!']] The voting was as follows: 348 plus 2 telematics votes, 350; 141 plus 1 telematics vote, 142; 174 plus 1 telematics vote, 175; abstentions, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please. The Royal Decree-Law is repealed. [[Applause.-Several Members: Very well]] Ladies and gentlemen, please refrain from making any kind of speech from the seats until the result of the vote has been read by the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u106	We shall now proceed to vote on the European Convention on the protection of pet animals, which was adopted in Strasbourg on 13 November 1987, as well as on the reservation and declaration which Spain wishes to make. We shall vote on the amendment of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 348 votes in favour, 175 against, 136 abstentions, 37.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u107	The amendment was adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the rest of the opinion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The vote was taken, he said.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u108	It was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u109	We shall now proceed to vote on the opinion of the Joint Committee on Relations with the Court of Auditors on the declaration on the general account of the State for the financial year 2013, as well as on the resolution adopted by the Joint Committee on Relations with the Court of Auditors. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 348 plus 2 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 346 plus 2 telematics votes, 348; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u110	The opinion was adopted. - OPINION OF THE JOINT COMMITTEE ON RELATIONS WITH THE COURT OF AUDITORS IN CONNECTION WITH THE DECLARATION ON THE GENERAL ACCOUNT OF THE STATE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2014, AS WELL AS THE RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE JOINT COMMITTEE. [[File number 250/00003]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u111	We shall now proceed to vote on the opinion of the Joint Committee on Relations with the Court of Auditors, now on the statement on the general account of the State for the financial year 2014, and on the resolution adopted by that Committee. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 347 plus 2 telematics votes, 349; 345 plus 2 telematics votes, 347; abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-16-CD170316.u112	The opinion was adopted. The meeting rose. It was one in the afternoon.
