ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u1	We begin with the questions addressed to the President of the Government, in accordance with the order given. Question addressed to the President by Mr Antonio Hernando Vera, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, I ask you for your assessment of ETA's announcement of its disarmament, but ours is already ahead of you. We believe that ETA has wanted to regain its leadership through this announcement of the surrender of arms, demanding that the Spanish and French states do not obstruct this process. It is not a statement about the dissolution of the terrorist gang, but rather an act of propaganda from those who have not taken their defeat, from those who have not had the gesture, who have not had the courage to repent of the deaths that have caused even humanity to apologize to the victims. It is enough to listen to a spokesman who has said these days that it is an act of popular sovereignty and disobedience. In the face of that attitude and announcement, the Socialist Group means that ETA cannot be claimed, that the problem is not weapons; the problem more than weapons were the hands who held them and the minds who decided to use them against other human beings who did not think like them with the intention of subjugating them. It is up to the Government and the Congress of Deputies to lead this situation from the point of view and commitment of unity and loyalty. On 20 June 2011, after ETA announced the cessation of its armed activity, President Rodríguez Zapatero left a few words for the story. He said: Ours will be a democracy without terrorism, but never a democracy without memory. The memory of the victims and their families, of the 829 murdered, of the extorted and the wounded, will always be with us and will accompany our history. It is the memory that we have to transfer to future generations so that they know that the whole of Spanish society first resisted terror in order to definitely overcome it. It has been the victory of freedom, the rule of law, democracy, the security forces and bodies of the State, of international cooperation and, ultimately, of all of us. That is why, Mr President, in the face of so much terror and so much suffering so useless, what a triumph so important that of our democracy, that of all of us. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u3	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Hernando, I agree with your statements and I subscribe to one hundred percent of your words. The position of the Government with regard to the terrorist organization ETA - which is what I am asking for - has not changed; it is the same since 21 December 2011, when I assumed the responsibility of the Presidency of the Government, and it was before I came to it. It is the same as that of the French Government, which, as its Ministry of the Interior recalled in a statement last week, last Saturday, has not changed either. It is summarized in the following points: ETA is a terrorist organization and does not negotiate with terrorists; ETA will not achieve any political benefit, in the same way that it has not achieved any political benefit by stopping killing; if ETA wants to disarm, let it do so, it suits us; let it do so now and without further delay. Until now, the only disarmament of ETA has been carried out by the Spanish and French security forces and bodies. The best way to do this is for ETA to tell where the weapons are, without altering their location or content and without any negotiation. From there, what the vast majority of Spaniards want and expect is their dissolution as a terrorist organization, the full delegitimization of terrorists and their ideas and the definitive closure of a stage that has brought only death and much suffering. Finally, and as always, I would like to end this intervention by reminding the victims of terrorism, who have suffered most from ETA. We'll never forget them. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GOVERNMENT OF MANUAL Iglesias TURRIÓN, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, [[File number 180/00191]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u5	Question also addressed to the President of the Government, by Mr Pablo Manuel Iglesias Turrión.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u6	Thank you, Madam President. With your permission, I do want to ask the President of the Government a question by taking advantage of the control session. What role do you think the budget veto plays?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Churches. What you call a budgetary veto is nothing more than the exercise of a constitutional power conferred on the Government by article 134.6 of the Constitution, which states: 'Any proposal or amendment that entails an increase in appropriations or a decrease in budgetary revenue shall require the Government's consent for its processing'. It is a faculty that also recognizes the Government's Rules of Procedure of this House, it is a faculty that exists in comparative law - it is enough to see the constitutional texts of the countries of our environment, particularly France, Germany or others - and it is a faculty that the Governments have exercised for forty years in Spain with absolute normality. This authority has the following functions: to preserve the competence of the Government of legislative initiative in budgetary matters; to provide the budget with stability and to ensure the implementation of the existing budgets and, ultimately, to preserve a certain degree of rigour in the public accounts. It is absolutely normal in all democracies, including our own, Mr. Churches. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. I asked you about this question in November and you answered me something similar, which could be synthesized in that cruel Spanish saying: Lentils, old people's food, if you want to eat them and, if you don't, leave them. I was then telling him that excessive use of the budgetary veto power could turn the separation of powers into something that was somehow contained in the political science and law manuals. And you have indeed given me a manual answer today. What happens is that today comes spring to The English Court and also comes a report from the congressional lawyers that says something similar to what we said already in November. It says that the veto capacity should be set in exceptional and restrictive terms, because it prevents the Chambers from exercising legislative power. His Government had vetoed up to twenty-three initiatives, and in two cases - one affecting the reform of the Workers'Statute and the other affecting the Education Act - there had even been a conflict between the Government and the Congressional Bureau that had forced his Government to resort to the Constitutional Court, to see if it was more fortunate in it. I, preparing this question, came to the conclusion that you were going to answer me basically that the lawyer's report brought you without care, but as you handle Lope's prose with skill, I have been reflecting on the expression you would use. You have several options: I care about the lawyers' report; I care about a pepper; I care about an egg; I care about a radish or I care about a cucumber. You even have other more direct formulas: It brings me loose, sweats me, brings me fresh, peels me, refines me. [[Rumors and Protests]] I have even found one - if the gentlemen of the People's Party bench, who have just insulted a fellow member of mine, allow me to finish - that I think fits perfectly to his style: I'm a faggot. [[Protests]] You're the one with the lawyer's report. And you know why she's snooping? Because the important thing is you've already tied it up. The budgets you have are tied up with Citizens, with the Basque Nationalist Party, with the Canary Coalition and with a deputy who will lend you the Socialist Party of New Canary Islands. That's why you're scolded by the lawyer's report, sir... [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u11	Thank you very much. Quiet, please. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u12	Thank you very much. Well, I'm glad to know that I've already secured budget support, and I hope that all those you mentioned will take good note and listen to you. [[Applauds]] From there, I'm going to have to do a few more things. So if anyone wanted an informational first aid today already has it, Mr. Churches has given it to him. I'm more modest than you. The only thing I can tell you is that I am in favour of the separation of powers, of course I am, so I respect the functions of this Parliament and that is why I ask that Parliament also respect the functions of the Government, above all that it respects those powers which the Government has and which are contained in our constitutional text, because, if not, the separation of powers would be left in the water of drunkards or in all those things to which you referred in your speech. One of the most important powers of the Government, as the Constitution says, is to exercise budgetary initiative and to ensure that budgets are met, and the Government's disagreement does not concern any political content, but only the budgetary consequences, which is what the Constitution says. Indeed, there are many times that initiatives are valued here that the Government does not want, and the Government has to endure, debate and, on many occasions, lose them. That is the unequivocal demonstration that I am right without doing the things you do in this House. When it comes to budgetary matters, the Government has constitutional powers and, if not, does not have them. In both cases, democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u13	Thank you very much, President. - BY ALBERT RIVERA DÍAZ, BY THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO INCLUDE IN THE 2017 BUDGETS FINANCING TO COMPLETE THE OBJECTIVES OF THE MEDITERRANEAN CORREDOR? [[File number 180/000192]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u14	He also asked the chairman of Mr Albert Rivera Díaz of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u15	Thank you, President. Mr Rajoy, the Spanish infrastructure model has certainly made some progress on some issues, but it has also failed in terms of costs, investment and productivity. In Spain, Mr Rajoy, you have built the People's Party, radials in Madrid without cars, which we have to pay all the Spaniards, 5 billion; also the Socialist Party - today we see it on the front page of a newspaper - 1.5 billion we will have to pay as a holiday of the concession, in this case, of the AP-7 motorway. We have built aircraftless airports in Castellón, in Ciudad Real, in Murcia; 1 billion, 280 million, 100 million, whatever you want, Mr Rajoy. In Spain things have been done wrong and we are not willing to keep the party so big and the bill paid by the Spaniards. Mr Rajoy, we do not agree, as you know, with the rescue they made to the savings banks for EUR 60 billion, which, according to the Court of Auditors, have disappeared and which we are going to investigate in this House. Mr Rajoy, the party has been very big and all the Spaniards have paid for it. I am outraged, like many others, with the president of the Eurogroup, the Dutch socialist, because he says that in Spain we have spent money on alcohol and women. That is not true; we have spent it on corruption, airports without planes, radials without cars and trains without passengers. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u16	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u17	Mr Rajoy, in paragraph 21 of the investiture agreement, Citizens ask the People's Party for a change of direction in that direction. We ask you to bet not only on the radial conception, which is necessary, but also on the circular one. We need a Mediterranean corridor to join our ports with our trains and our goods. Mr Rajoy, are you committed in the 2017 budget to continuing to invest and to end once and for all the Mediterranean corridor, that necessary, productive and urgent work that has not been done in Spain for so many years? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u18	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Rivera. Something good has been done in Spain, Mr Rivera, although at the time you were not in this House, particularly in the area of infrastructure. You can leave Spain - you do it very often - and you can ask outside. This is a country that has the best infrastructure in Europe, both railway, with high speed, as well as roads, motorways, motorways and airports. And that is so for many reasons; perhaps the most important is that 75 million people visit us every year. For something it will be; something good is in Spain, no matter how many mistakes could have been made as in any human work. From there, the Mediterranean corridor, which is why you ask me, is a political, economic and social priority for the Spanish Government. In 2012 we launched realistic planning and in 2013 we achieved something very important, for the European Union to declare this action as a priority corridor of the trans-European basic network. We care so much that, since 2012, we have made significant investments at a time that, as you know, was difficult to budget. In the years 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 we have invested more than 1 billion euros in the Mediterranean corridor, which has a total investment of 17 billion euros, and it is our intention in the budget of this year 2017 to make a endowment at least on the line in which we have done it in recent years. This is a basic priority for the Government because it is another major infrastructure need. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u21	Well, I am glad to see the change in priorities, because the deadlines that had been agreed have not been met in the corridor. As we go, I do not know if it will end before the Holy Family - I hope so - when it turns out that the Mediterranean corridor would have to be finished, according to the plans of the Government itself. There are 4 billion euros missing, which is much less than the money we have spent on those empty airports, those radials we are paying or those underutilized highways. Mr Rajoy, let's change the priorities. We will support the budgets if they meet these conditions and if there is also that Mediterranean corridor. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u22	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u23	As you know, Mr Rivera, we have experienced the most difficult stage, from a budgetary point of view, in Spain. Even so, we have made investments above EUR 6 billion. There are great achievements that have been achieved, such as the French-Barcelona border, access to the port of Barcelona, La Encina-Monforte del Cid and the merchandise branch in Alicante, and this year we will continue with the progress. Last Sunday the works of the third lane Valencia-Castellón finished and the duration of the journey between Madrid and Castellón will be reduced, because on Monday the circulations in tests of this same section begin. I insist, this is a priority for the Government and you will see it reflected in the General Budgets of the State. In addition we have agreed with you on the famous 150 points. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u24	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA SORAYA RODRIGUEZ RAMOS, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: IS THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDERABLE THAT THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE USES JUDICIAL JUDGMENTS TO QUESTION FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS? [[File number 180/00185]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u25	Question to the Minister for Justice by Mrs María Soraya Rodríguez Ramos of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u26	Thank you, President. Minister, your last statements reinterpreting a Supreme Court ruling, in the sense of limiting a fundamental right such as that of a strike, are unacceptable and are also false. Do you consider it reasonable to use court judgements to challenge fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u27	Thank you very much. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u28	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I'm afraid I don't agree at all with your appreciation. There is the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Fourth Chamber of 16 November - that is, almost four months ago - and there are my statements, in which I simply highlighted the interest of a judgment that balances rights. Therefore, in relation to your question, it seems to me that of course not, it is not reasonable to question fundamental rights by interpreting judgments, and I, in fact, never do. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u30	Look, Minister, from your statements it was understood that companies whose workers are on strike can sub-lease these unworked jobs. This was also understood by the Supreme Court, which had to draw a clarification note to explain the scope of the judgment, making it clear that the right to strike is neither restricted nor relaxed nor limited, and that what is allowed is that the clients of that company with workers on strike can contract with other companies if the services are not carried out, provided that their relationship is merely cliential. These statements, Minister, go against the most elementary sense of the separation of powers and are also serious because they join with other statements of yours; statements that make you press charges against prosecutors after you dare to evaluate the proceedings of two Supreme Court prosecutors; statements after you cease to be thirty-five prosecutors at once, with important positions in the fight against corruption. Minister, statements like that say that in this country a prosecutor is more persecuted than the corrupt are harsh, but if they are made by a prosecutor who has ceased the fight against corruption they should cause a minister to reflect. Mr Catalá, stop if you can, because you no longer have the credit with which the judicial world received you upon your arrival, relieved by the march of Gallardón. He's got credit at zero. That's why I recommend you don't pick up the phone for a season, it's not going to be that you call the president of Murcia or any other desperate partner of yours in a judicial situation. Party nothing, Minister, unless it's birthday. Watch who calls you and who invites you. His image as a prudent official at the head of a ministry was better than what he now gives, that of an exalted politician, controlling the justice of a government harassed in the courts. Change if you can. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u31	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u32	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I will answer what you wanted to ask me or at least what I understood. I insist on the considerations. The Fourth Chamber of the Supreme Court makes a judgement in which it considers that the right to strike is not an unlimited right and that the right of citizens to obtain a service can be articulated and balanced. I called that consideration interesting, and I have not done it alone, the doctrine and even the unions have done it; there is some note from some union that analyzes the issue. No one has questioned the fundamental right to strike - I myself would not in any case, of course - but it seems to me that these assessments of the Supreme Court's jurisprudence can be made. In any case, if what concerns you is the protection of workers' rights, it is very welcome. You could also have been so present in that protection when we reformed the Penal Code - its article 315 - to ensure that the hypothetical commission of any crime of coercion, on the occasion of the exercise of the right to strike, should not be punished by deprivation of liberty but by a fine, and that reform was done only by the People's Parliamentary Group. In any case, Your Honor, as you well know, the first right in the field of work is the right to work, and you have been characterized by being specialists in the destruction of jobs; you have been characterized by not guaranteeing the future of pensions through the bankruptcy of the welfare state. It is therefore very good to be concerned about the rights of workers and the right to strike - and this Government is doing so intensively - but also about the creation of jobs and the strengthening of social security, and in this context it is certainly where the rights of workers and of all citizens can be balanced, as does our Supreme Court and as does the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] - QUESTION OF THE DEPUTATE DON JUAN CARLOS GIRAUTA VIDAL, IN RESTITUTION OF THE DEPUTATE DON ANTONIO ROLDÁN MONÉS, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO COMPLETE WITH THE NUMBER OF THE INVESTIGATION AGREEMENT SIGNED WITH CITIZENS IN ORDER TO REDUCE THE PUBLIC GAST IN 1,000 MILLIONS OF EUROS? [[File number 180/00181]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u33	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mr Juan Carlos Girauta Vidal, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u34	Thank you very much. Minister, as you will know, point 2 of our investment agreement contains a comprehensive and independent review of public expenditure for the identification of superfluous expenditure, the elimination of duplication and the improvement of efficiency. What action does your Government intend to take or is taking in this regard? And, above all, with regard to the savings of $1 billion a year minimum, do you have anything to go ahead with?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u35	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Spokesman, ladies and gentlemen, the government has an accredited track record of reducing and controlling public expenditure, which will, among other things, allow us to meet the 2016 public deficit target of 4.6%; and I can tell the House that we are going to comply with that 4.6% laxly. Moreover, the policy of reducing expenditure has been compatible with the priority in social expenditure. Public expenditure in 2011 represented 45.8% of gross domestic product; we have reduced it to 42.5%, and this has been consistent with the EUR 30 billion that our public administrations are now devoting to social expenditure, which represents 63.45 % of total expenditure as compared to 60.47% in 2011. In the investiture agreement, as your honor has reported, this purpose and this project are indeed included, and we have also incorporated it in the update of the budget plan submitted to the European Commission last December. In this regard, we give Airef a relevant role in terms of detecting from its responsibility and independence where there are duplications and inefficiencies, as well as unjustified or unnecessary expenses that obviously we must eliminate or correct. We try, then, to detect, evaluate and correct these inefficiencies, as we have already been doing in recent years within the plan called CORA, and in this sense we will gladly pass on to your parliamentary group and to all of your ladies and gentlemen all the plans relating to the identification of inefficient expenses that have to do with the development of the digital administration, with avoiding duplication, especially between the general administration of the state and the autonomous communities, all of which, in short, are compatible with the strengthening of social spending. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Girauta.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u38	Minister, you tell me that you are on it; we, in view of the figures we are dealing with, cannot be so optimistic. Please, Minister, consider that the reduction of the deficit and of the debt will no longer be possible by means of the increase in taxes. The middle class cow is already milked, no more milk; the lemon is squeezed. Yes, Minister, we will have to cut down on real spending. Not those related to dependency, neither to pensions, nor to basic services, nor to unemployment, but to political spending, the spending of client networks. And let me say this to you, because you are the face of the State, of the Leviathan, and I am not just talking about the General Administration of the State, I am talking about the whole State, about the amount of duplication that occurs by overlapping administrative levels that make us citizens at the service of the State and not citizens who have a State at their service. We work more than half a year for you, Minister... Not for you, Mr. Montoro, for what you put on your face. Yes, Minister. At the risk of looking like a child from San Ildefonso, in the seconds that I have left I will read some big prizes that have touched some friends: City of Arts and Sciences of Valencia: 1,281 million, 900 overcosts and falls to pieces; City of Culture of Santiago, 400 million, 280 overcosts and is not finished; Expo de Zaragoza, 2,250 million, with losses of 500 million and is not used; the Magic Box of Madrid, 300 million, 175 overcosts and almost not used. I could go on, there's a lot of awardwinners with the Fat One. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u39	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u40	Thank you, Madam President. What you could do is update your speech, Mr. Girauta. I will gladly lend you all that data that I have already read to you. I will only remind you that with 42% expenditure on GDP Spain is the country that has the lowest public expenditure in the entire European environment, so, Mr Girauta, before you came to this House we were working... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u41	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOSEBA ANDONI AGIRRETXEA URRRESTI, OF THE VASCO Parliamentary Group, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT THE GENERAL ADMINISTRATION OF THE STATE IN EUSKADI GUARANTEES THE COMPLIANCE OF THE LANGUAGE RIGHTS OF VASCOPARLANTS? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/000178]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u42	Question by Mr Joseba Andoni Agirretxea, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, does the Government consider that the General Administration of the State in Euskadi guarantees the fulfilment of the language rights of Basque speakers?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u44	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u45	Thank you, Madam President. The Government, Mr. Member, is a strong defender of the linguistic rights of all citizens and seeks to promote and protect the co-officiality of all the autonomous communities that are fortunate, I stress, to be able to use two languages, as is the case in the Basque Country. It is a pride for this Government to take any initiative that will lead to progress in language normalisation, and on that ground I frankly believe that the General Administration of the State has also made an effort that has been placed in the coincidence, of which we are also satisfied, at the last meeting of the Bilateral Commission for Cooperation between the General Administration of the State and the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country in relation to the Law on Local Institutions of Euskadi. This agreement has addressed the problems that had arisen in the application of two articles on which there was a discrepancy in language interpretation. Our will, our intention is to complete normalization and prevent any complaint or complaint about the non-use of Basque in the General Administration of the State in the Basque Country. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Agirretxea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u47	Thank you, Minister. Linguistic rights are those human rights relating to the individual and collective right to choose the language in which to communicate. The General Administration of the State in Euskadi does not respect these rights because Basque-speaking citizens, however much the legislation allows us, cannot communicate in Basque in almost no part of their Government, and I say this to them from personal experience. Not only the Basque Parliament's Euskera Act, but Law 39/2015 on the common administrative procedure of public administrations, in its article 15, states that, in addition to the language of the procedures processed by the Administration, it will be the Spanish language; however, those concerned who address the organs of the General Administration of the State based in the territory of an autonomous community may also use the language which is co-official in it. I show you this legislation so that it does not hide in the typical response that they are units of the General Administration of the State and not autonomous. Firstly, an administration must respond to the population it serves and, in addition to complying with the law, whether autonomous or state, to meet the linguistic rights of its citizens, and that is why it must be involved. How many euskaldunization plans has your administration set up in Euskadi? What steps have you taken for the staff to learn Basque? Why can't I renew my identity card by addressing the police in Basque? I already know the answer, but I would like your commitment, a commitment on your part to attend to Basque citizenship that demands the use of Basque in the General Administration of the State in Basque. This is a sign of complaints from citizens that their language rights are not respected. They are responses of non-use, no presence, no response in Basque in different areas, such as National Police, Renfe, ADIF, National Institute of Social Security, Post Offices, Spanish Radio, Traffic Delegation, etc. Take charge of the problem, Minister, assume it as the responsibility of the Government and respond properly, and by way require the new government delegate in Euskadi to ensure the linguistic rights of the Basque language, since the former, in his obsessions with our language, was only careful to restrict his presence and prosecute those who in their full right used it in the Administration. This is a plurinational and plurilingual State. So...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u48	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, the Government has taken various initiatives to recognise and encourage the use of co-official languages in all areas, particularly in the field of public administration. Such initiatives have undoubtedly contributed to reducing conflict. In fact, we do not know at present that there are legal disputes with the Basque Government regarding the use of Basque by the General Administration of the State. Moreover, in the last four years only five complaints have been received from the Service for the Guarantee of Linguistic Rights of the Basque Government of citizens who claim that they have not been served in Basque at any service of the General Administration of the State. Our goal is that there is no complaint, that I have already told you. In this regard, we have promoted different actions, such as the recruitment, where necessary, of translators or the conduct of continuing training courses for public employees to learn or improve their level of Basque, so as to ensure that the Administration always offers an adequate response to the citizen, both in writing and orally. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u50	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF BEAUTIFUL PEOPLE, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT MEASURES DO YOU THINK DO I KEEP THE GOVERNMENT TO REDUCE THE GROWTH OF SINESTRALITY IN OUR ROADS? [[File number 180/000186]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u51	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Pablo Bellido Acevedo, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister for the Interior, the last parliamentary term was a clear setback in road safety. 2016 was the first year since 2003 in which the number of accidents and deaths on Spanish roads increased, with 1,160 people. For your family, my respect. What does the government intend to do to reverse this dramatic balance? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u53	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u54	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, the improvement in the safety of each and every road in Spain is a real obsession of this government. Work has been done over the last few years and also in recent legislatures to improve safety on our roads. It is true that, under certain circumstances, there has been a recovery in the last year, but from the very beginning we have not remained silent and have been taking action, which has been reported to the Committee on Road Safety, to my appearance in the Committee on the Interior and even here also in an inquiry that has been made to me. We are certainly committed to achieving a state pact among all and to varying the strategy that was in place until today to be able together to improve safety on our roads, because behind each victim - you have quoted a figure - behind each figure, there is a great deal of pain and tragedy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Bellido.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u56	Mr Zoido, your measures at the moment are adequate but insufficient. This issue is also a real priority for the Socialist Group. That is why we will support all actions that contribute to reducing the number of accidents on the Spanish roads, but we believe that we must be more ambitious. Minister, you have inherited a calamitous management of road safety. In the past legislature, his predecessor was a real disaster, and it was because he was led by desirousness and inertia. With his party in the government, with the People's Party, a magnificent eight-year, very positive inertia was broken by ministers Alonso, Pérez Rubalcaba and Camacho and the director general Pere Navarro. The Government has now specialized in seeking excuses rather than providing solutions. To say that the source of the increase in road deaths is the increase in displacement or the ageing of the car park, as if it were only those reasons and these were solely the responsibility of someone outside the Government, is not to understand the problem. We have listened to you in the Commission, and we share your desire and your willingness to reach a state pact. The Socialist Parliamentary Group is going to put the desire for unity before anyone else, but before addressing the opposition or Spanish society we ask you to reach a pact with your colleagues in the Council of Ministers. For example, get the Minister of Development to invest more in road maintenance. Get the Minister of Economy to invest more in recovering investments, such as the PIVE Plan. Get the finance minister to recover the Civil Traffic Guard's staff, which they do so magnificently. Get the Minister of Education to get back the subject of citizenship education, because this subject also provides road education in our schools. Get the president of the government to receive associations and groups of victims who only ask... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u57	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u58	Thank you very much, President. It is true that there has been a slight upturn, an increase of 1.4%. It seems to me that this recovery is important enough for us all to turn around; now, from that to what you have just painted right here, a future so tragic, so black, as if we were the worst, I must tell you that it is not so. In the short time that I have been Minister of the Interior, I am tired of listening to criticism of the previous team and I have to tell you that there are many and good results that have been achieved, as have those of previous socialist governments. [[Applauds]] I will highlight one thing to you, Your Honor, there is something that seems important to me. The number of victims in Spain is 36 per million inhabitants, much lower than in the European Union. Therefore, although it is not enough, we will continue to work on that line. Don't worry about the coordination of different departments because we are committed to cross-cutting policies to improve road safety. There will be investment in the roads, there will also be an increase in the Civil Guard staff, there will be awareness in education and training, but, above all, there will be a lot of attention to the victims. I know a lot about it and I've lived it in my own flesh, I can assure you. Then we will have an inquiry where we will put on the table many of the measures that are being taken, some of them in the short term with an amount of 1,700,000 euros that are being implemented since the beginning of the year, fifteen measures that were designed and that were promptly reported to all those who are part of the Commission... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u59	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs IONE BELARRA URTEAGA, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED NATIONS, CAN WE COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WILL YOUR GOVERNMENT COMPLETE THE INDICATION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION TO ENHANC DETENTION TIMES IN EXTRANGER INTERNAL CENTRES WHICH THE COUNTRY OF ACCOMMODATION TO PERSONS REFUGEED TO HAVE BEEN COMMITTED TO ALREADY MORE THAN A YEAR AND A MEDIUM? [[EC]] [[C.I.E.]] [[File number 180/000190]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u60	Question by Mrs Ione Belarra Urteaga, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u61	Thank you. I would like to know, Minister, what your Government intends to do before, whether the refugee reception quota to which you committed almost a year and a half ago or those indications that the European Commission is giving us to extend the time spent in detention centres for foreigners.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u62	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u63	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Belarra, the Government of Spain is a serious Government and will therefore fulfil the commitments it has made. I must assure you that the Government of Spain has not committed itself to extending the maximum time that foreigners should be in detention centres and therefore we do not plan to increase it. As for the number of resettlements and relocations to which we have committed ourselves, we are making every effort to achieve the objectives that we have set ourselves and to which the Government of Spain has committed itself.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u64	Thank you very much. Mrs. Belarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u65	Thank you. I ask you this question because I have heard you all too often boast that we are the sixth country in the European Union and the fourth in the euro area in relocations. I don't know if you when you were suspending the exams at school, so your parents wouldn't punish you, were shielding yourself that the rest of the classmates had also suspended. [[Rumors]] I don't think it's to put on a medal that we have relocated 878 of the 16,000 people we committed to. It is clear that Europe has suspended human rights and Spain is also depending on it as a guarantee of the right to asylum. I ask you what you will do to effectively meet, before September, with all those relocated people, to what we committed - as I said - a year and a half ago. As I see that the speech on human rights does not fit very well with you and I have seen it coming out on the front page of the ABC this Sunday, I do not know if you have heard Pope Francis' statements on refugees. [[Protests]] He says that perfectly Jesus, Mary and Joseph could be the refugees of the twenty-first century, those to whom you are closing the door in your nostrils. I would like to know whether you too are going to arrest the refugees of the 21st century, such as Jesus, Mary and Joseph, until eighteen months or if you are going to expel them violently, as happened with a Nigerian citizen, Malik, who after 59 days interned in a detention centre of foreigners, with a still bleeding hernia and after spending several days in the hospital was deported to his country where he is not going to have the proper treatment. This is what is happening in our country in foreign detention centres. I would like to know whether it will continue to increase - as Mr Rajoy likes to say, who has already left - if it will continue to add suffering to suffering and block those 20,000 asylum files, those 20,000 people with files that are blocked in the Asylum and Refugee Office. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u66	Thank you very much. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u67	Your Honor, I'm going to clarify one thing to you as to the notes and my possible justification before my mother, because father didn't have one. Since I couldn't lose the scholarship, I couldn't shield myself from anything, but I had to move forward and if I could be the first I was trying to be. [[Applauds]] Mr President, I will tell you one thing: on 2 March the European Commission recommended that the length of stay of foreigners in detention centres should be extended, but Spain itself was among the least time-bound. It was recommended between six months and eighteen months and we have stayed in sixty days, Your Honor. That is why we do not intend to change it because we continue to trust that there are human rights and that they are perfectly justified with an entry of sixty days; so do not worry. As for resettlement, there is no problem. In the National Resettlement Programme for 2016 there were 854 refugees and it is about to be fulfilled and the National Resettlement Programme for 2017 has 725 places, which we are convinced that in September we will reach them. A different problem is relocations. It is true that we are in sixth place, but because no country in the European Union, given the difficulties of administrative processing, has been able to meet these objectives. No country has achieved more than 10% of its fixed amount. That's what happened you say or anyone you want to listen to. Administrative problems prevent it. I would therefore like to assure you that, from the point of view of international protection, you are calling into question the fact that we have a party - which supports the Government - that does not respect human rights, nor does it talk about it; there are 16,000 requests... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u68	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN OLORIZ SERRA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE REPUBLIC'S KEY, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORT: DOES I THINK TO CONTINUE PURSUING THE ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS 38 OF THE PLACE, WHICH I PROVIDED A €6,000 help to families who want to school their children in a private school? [[File number 180/00177]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u69	Questions to the Minister for Education, Culture and Sport. First of all, question by Mr Joan Olòriz Serra of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u70	Minister, do you intend to keep the 6,000 euros that take from the economic contribution to the Generalitat to pay for the private centers of those parents who have asked to school their children in Spanish in Catalonia? Do you know that only forty families have requested this course?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u71	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr Olòriz, I read your question very carefully. You said that if you planned to continue applying the additional thirty-eighth provision of the Lomce that provides for an aid of 6,000 euros to families who want to school their children in a private school and, the truth is, I did not understand it. Do you know what I did? For I took the thirty-eighth additional provision, even the royal decrees that develop it, and neither have I seen anything of 6,000 euros or no private schools. Why don't you tell me, you're a teacher? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u73	Mr. Olòriz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u74	Predictable but disappointing response. I don't know what he's telling me, what he's telling me, and you're shutting up. He did not seem to realize that parents of only 0.07% of 1,570,011 students enrolled in this course had decided to take advantage of the additional thirty-eighth. It is a useless measure, because it does not correspond to the reality of the Catalan school and, in addition, it violates the Statute of Autonomy, the Law of Education of Catalonia and repeated rulings of the Constitutional Court. Leave it alone a successful language model, where everyone has the right and obligation to know the two languages and the right to use the one they want, a model with more than thirty years of experience, which has a broad academic, social and political consensus. It must be known that all pupils complete compulsory education by knowing the two co-official languages perfectly, with an increasing proficiency in English and a positive attitude with all the languages in our environment, promoting social cohesion and equal opportunities, a citizenship rooted in their country and open to the world. Do not continue with the bad faith of your predecessor, Mr. Wert, who laughs at all of us comfortably from Paris and cynically from the painting you have hung in your ministry for the modest price of 20,000 euros. You want a pact for education? Well, start by doing the opposite of your predecessor, that of the worst educational law in the last few decades, yes, the one that neither of you...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u75	Your Honor, your time is up. Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u76	Thank you. Then you tell me, Mr. Olòriz, because you follow me unanswered. You ask me a question that is not true. You tell me that I do not know what additional provision, the thirty-eighth of the Lomce, which provides for an aid of 6,000 euros. Where, Mr. Olòriz? I've told you before, I've alluded to your teacher status and explain to me where you won't find it. You make things up, Mr. Olòriz. [[Rumors]] And then in his answer, he talks to me about something else. All right, it's your opinion and I respect it, but your question is not true. And you know why? Mr Olòriz, because what Churchill was saying about people who are obsessed happens to you, and that is that you cannot change your mind and neither do you want to change your subject, and you are going to pinion fixed. We are now talking about the national pact for education, I think it is a good time to talk about all these things and I would ask you, Mr Olòriz, to go to that pact with an open mind, with a desire to reach agreements and with a willingness to listen to the other. When I read some of your tweets in which you say: we will vote no to the model of the education pact because previously we had to repeal the Lomce and we started the subcommission falsely on 14th, it seems to me that it is not a good attitude, Mr Olòriz. Change your attitude, that you are a teacher and you have to do pedagogy and tell the truth. Tell the truth from time to time and go to the education pact, Mr Olòriz, with an open mind, which is the good thing. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] - OF THE SILVIA VALMAÑA DIRECTORATE Ochaita, of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which expresses to the Lord the Minister of Education, Culture and Sport: how does the Government value the recent judgment of the Court that it evaluates the design of the order of the official university education? [[File number 180/000183]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u77	He also asked the Minister of the Deputy Mrs Silvia Valmaña Ochaíta of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, last September 23, the Chamber of the Dispute-Administrative Court of the Supreme Court dismissed an appeal filed by the union Workers' Commissions to declare the nullity of Royal Decree 43/2015, which in turn amended two royal decrees, one of 2007 on the organization of university education and one of January 2011 on the regulation of official doctoral education. This remedy considered as the only issue that the Royal Decree violated the principles of equality and non-discrimination by allowing universities to articulate university education in degrees ranging from 180 to 240 credits and masters from 60 to 120 credits for access to doctoral programmes. The judgment, which is the subject of this question, rejects the basis of the appeal and thus removes the reason not only for the appellants, but also for the agrarians and professionals of demagoguery who also wanted to confront in this matter making the possible choice of 3+2 or 4+1 a new battlefield. Well, in view of the content of the above ruling, Minister, I ask you how the Government appreciates the recent Supreme Court ruling that supports the design of the management of official university education. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u79	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you know that the Government respects and abides by the judgments, but in this case I can tell you that it respects and abides by a smile. Why? Because it was the Federation for the Teaching of Workers' Commissions that filed a contentious-administrative appeal against Royal Decree 43/2015 of February 2, which amended other previous Royal Decrees establishing the management of university and official teaching and regulating the official teaching of doctorate. It was claimed by the appellants that pupils were discriminated against on the basis of their performance or economic resources and that non-Spanish students were discriminated against. That's not what the government wanted. The government wanted the homogenization of university studies in Spain and also wanted the internationalization of students who had completed their degrees within the framework of the European Education Area. The ruling gives reason to the Government, confirms that there is no discrimination or violation in this royal decree of the principle of equality between students, whether for academic or economic reasons. Therefore, we did not want to reduce the duration of the studies, what is intended is to leave the student free in the design of his own professional and academic curriculum. It is the student, in short, who can decide on the duration of his studies within the academic offer. And the High Court also points out - and this is very important for the Government - that, in addition to being non-discriminatory, it has no impact on the scholarship system, argued by the appellants, as it does not regulate this matter. And this is important to us because, as you know, for the government the scholarship system is an integral part of the social dimension of education. No one in Spain should stop studying for economic reasons, we have that at heart, we care, we want to see it reflected again with an increase in scholarships in the next General Budgets of the State, and that the Supreme Court gives us reason fills us with satisfaction. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE INCREASE OF SPANISH IMMIGRATION? [[File number 180/00187]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u81	Questions now to the Minister for Employment and Social Security. Question by Mr Ricardo Cortés Lastra, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Go ahead, Mr. Cortés.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u82	Thank you, President. Minister: How does the Government rate the increase in Spanish emigration?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u83	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, the government works for everyone's opportunities and works to create opportunities in Spain, among other things, so that all the talent that had to flee during the crisis can come to Spain, and for that we are working from the minute one. That's why Spain is a growing and job-creating country today... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u85	Quiet, please. Go ahead, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u86	It is the second country, together with Germany, that creates the most jobs throughout the euro area, and that is compatible with the fact that the number of new emigrant registrations in our country has fallen by 6%, the first drop, Your Honor, in seven years.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Cortés.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u88	Madam Minister, the truth is that in my time in this Parliament, just six months ago, I am surprised by your attitude in the control sessions. And I tell you this: it is constantly putting on medals, when the situation of the Spaniards in terms of seeking decent employment in this country is practically impossible at the moment. Madam Minister, I do not want to take the opposite from you and, with your permission, I will also put on a few medals that I believe you deserve and have not been put through these control sessions. The first medal I want to award you is this: you are the minister who destroyed social dialogue in this country. It was very difficult, but unfortunately you did it. The second medal, which is also well deserved, is to have managed to be the minister of unworthy wages, of the wages of shame, of the lowest wages of the working classes and of the middle classes, proportionally, in the last twenty years in this country. And a third medal, which I'm sure you'll be very proud of, is that of inequality. You, with your labour policies and part of your government with economic and social policies, have made Spain the second most unequal country in the European Union. But, well, medal of inequality, medal to unworthy wages, medal to destroy social dialogue, but especially I want to show you my interest in a medal: the medal to abandon. The medal to abandon hundreds of thousands of Spaniards, men and women who have had to emigrate from this country because here they have not been given a chance, having to look for it out of their land. You, and the Government that accompanies you, have let a part of a fundamental generation to develop this country have had to flee and not participate in your historic recovery. Look, the best brand in Spain has you abandoned, you don't know where you are, you don't know how much talent you accumulate and you punish them with oblivion. Madam Minister, you Spaniards outside are neither concerned nor occupied by you, and I will tell you more. There is a phrase that sums up his political ideal and that his leaders have been saying a lot lately: Every stick that can hold its candle. Look at you, you're wrong; you're more wrong than ever. Correct and give a concrete response to the daily departure of hundreds of Spaniards from our country looking for a future outside because you are not able to give it to them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u89	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, I ask you for a little humility, especially if you have just arrived in this House, because if any medal has the Socialist Group it is the medal of unemployment and the historical records of unemployment in Spain, unfortunately. [[Applauds]] Because you will agree with me, Your Honor, that it is not the same thing to destroy jobs - 3.5 million jobs destroyed with socialist governments - that today Spanish society, with a government of the People's Party, has been able to create 1,600,000 jobs since the recovery and to recover one of the two jobs destroyed by the crisis. Therefore, in the balance sheet there is a clear loser and it is the Socialist Party, Your Honor. The government is concerned about talent, all talent, but also as Spaniards we have to value what Spanish society has done over time and it is not only employing the maximum talent but also taking care of it. Do you know that Spain is the OECD country where the least people have emigrated? 2% of those born in Spain emigrated abroad during the crisis. Yes, Your Honor, look at the data, half as much as in Germany or Italy, three times less than in the UK and seven times less than in Portugal. We are working to ensure that the talent fled from the crisis comes to Spain. You know why? Because we are creating opportunities, Your Honor, so many that there are already 190,000 people living in our country, emigrated in the crisis and have returned because already in Spain opportunities are created every day thanks to companies, workers and families. And maybe something has to do with Mariano Rajoy's policies as well. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MIGUEL ANGEL BUSTAMENTE MARTÍN, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES, CAN WE COMMAND IN MAREA, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT NEED TO TAKE SOME MEASURES TO PROTECT WORKERS AND WORKERS TO THE ACTION OF THE KNOWN AS 'BUITS FUNDS' IN THE SPANISH TRADE FAIR? [[File number 180/00176]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u91	Question by Mr Miguel Ángel Bustamante Martín, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u92	Does the Government consider it necessary to take any action against the action of the vulture funds in defence of workers?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u93	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u94	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Look, all situations of impairment of workers' rights concern and occupy this Government. We do it every day and we do it working from the ministry with the social partners when there are situations that concern workers and we do it also in the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, which is the ultimate guarantee of workers' rights in Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Bustamante.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u96	I give you an example, Minister, Springwater, a venture capital fund that has led to the bankruptcy of viable companies through financial operations, which ultimately always end the termination of employment contracts, bringing the cost to the Public Employment Service and the Wage Guarantee Fund. I do not think it is patriotic for the government to stand idly by while a Swiss vulture fund, whose president is a German businessman acting through a company domiciled in Luxembourg, destroys our industry and our jobs. The way this management fund operates has led to the bankruptcy of viable businesses and the generation of labour disputes. I believe that the government does not defend the interests of the working class or the people, it defends the interests of economic power. The objective of vulture funds is to obtain the maximum benefit in the shortest possible time. Companies like Unipapel, Miró, Intex, Carbonell have suffered the consequences of these attacks. I think they are industries that could give jobs to the 2,400,000 Spaniards who are abroad, many of them young people with training and preparation who had to go because they did not have opportunities and had to take the bags to look for work abroad. The key to this type of action is labour reform. Your labour reform has broken down collective bargaining and has been the tool that has allowed the vulture fund to dismantle businesses regardless of the jobs or the future of the industry. That is why, Minister, I am proud to have participated in the information pickets of the three general strikes in the face of the Socialist Party and the People's Party's labour reform, because your labour reform was an attack on workers' rights, which seeks to destroy quality employment by reducing redundancies and making working conditions precarious. That is why, where a person with a decent salary used to work, three people with poor wages are working today. We will continue to defend the rights of workers, and we will do so in institutions and on the street. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u97	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, the Government is pursuing those who are defrauding the Social Security System and undermining the rights of workers, and it is doing so with the great instrument it has, which is the enforcement of the law through the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate. We believe so much in this because we think that fraud is harmful to society as a whole; first for the worker, who sees his rights, Your Honor, and also for the companies, who compete in a situation of inequality between those who comply with those who do not do so and defraud the system. As a society we are all disappointed because there is a drop in social security contributions, which is the heart of our welfare model. That is why since the first day, in 2012, we have launched a Plan to combat fraud in irregular employment and social security, so that over all these years we have been having great results. This anti-fraud plan has been coordinated with the autonomous communities with special conventions and within the framework of social dialogue. Your Honor, I invite you from this House to make proposals in this regard, because the fight against fraud is the task of all as Spaniards. Here are the results, Your Honor: In that period from 2012 to January 2017 more than 1,011 thousand inspections have been carried out on irregular employment, which have allowed 424,000 irregular jobs to flourish. 6,005 fictitious companies have been detected, those companies that have no known economic activity, only defrauding Social Security. 260,000 contracts have been converted improperly concluded as temporary to indefinite, winning the workers. Finally, the total savings of the system of this great anti-fraud plan for all have resulted in savings of 18,050 million euros for social security. This is also the way to fight fraud every day, Your Honor. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]] - the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and the Environment, of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference, which forms the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and the Environment: what is the assessment of the government's monitoring of the food information and control agency, for the control of law 12/2013, of 2 August, of measures to improve [[AICA]] THE FOOD PROCESSING? [[File number 180/000182]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u99	Question to the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment, by Mr Calvente Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, minister, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. By the first additional provision of Law 12/2013 of 2 August of measures to improve the functioning of the food chain, the Food Information and Control Agency, known as AICA, was established. The above-mentioned legal rule, in its fifth paragraph, sets out the purposes of the above-mentioned agency, the statute of which is approved by Royal Decree 227/2014 of 4 April. This Food Information and Control Agency, AICA, is an autonomous body of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment, of which its Office is the owner. It operates as a public system to ensure compliance with the Act on Measures to Improve the Operation of the Food Chain in Trade Relations; this is the sale of food and raw materials between farmers and livestock farmers, food and beverage manufacturers and distributors in the agri-food sector. Madam Minister, thanks to President Rajoy, Commissioner Arias Cañete and his lordship, a new historic milestone was achieved for the Spanish agri-food sector and, therefore, for the national economy. For the first time in Spain, trade relations have been regulated between companies that are part of the food chain, with the support, which is also important, of agricultural organisations, food industries and an important part of distribution companies. Madam Minister, the governments of the People's Party, President Rajoy and his lordship have always shown their sensitivity and concern for the defence of the interests of Spanish farmers and farmers and, therefore, after more than three years of its entry into force, it is necessary to make an analysis of the development of the actions of the aforementioned agency. That is why I ask you what assessment the Government makes of the supervisory action of the Food Information and Control Agency, AICA, for the control of the Law 12/2013, of 2 August, of measures to improve the functioning of the food quality. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u101	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. When the People's Party came to the Government in 2012, it was a cry for the need to establish rules that would give certainty to trade relations between farmers and farmers, food and beverage manufacturers and distributors. The enactment by this Parliament of Law 12/2013 of 2 August of measures to improve the functioning of the food chain opened a new era in trade relations. The law has established a system of monitoring, monitoring and surveillance to identify and punish bad business practices, abusive business practices. In addition, the Code of Good Business Practices in Food Procurement, also provided for in the law, complements the Government's package of measures to balance the food chain in Spain. For the law to be effective, it was essential to provide it with a sanctioning regime and with a supervisor with the capacity to carry out inspections ex officio, to investigate complaints and to initiate and investigate sanctioning files. Law 12/2013 has marked one before and one after in the food chain. Thanks to it, AICA can investigate abusive business practices today. For his work in overseeing the chain law, AICA has become a control reference. Over the course of the three years of operation, their inspections have been in line with a comprehensive control plan that has investigated, on complaint and ex officio, all food chain agents in various sectors. This plan has been particularly useful in some particularly difficult situations in the sector, such as the dairy crisis, the Russian veto or the price situation for vegetables this winter. In all of them, the effectiveness of AICA has been clearly demonstrated. The Government's intention to provide the chain law with an instrument such as the agency has facilitated the resolution of many situations that would have been faced in a different way, without any doubt much more detrimental to the interests of the Spanish food sector. Even in the area of loss-selling, which is the competence of the autonomous communities, AICA has played an efficient role by transferring more than 300 communications of alleged loss-selling to the competent trade councils. Your Honor, AICA's performance data speak for themselves. Since its establishment, it has carried out 1,748 inspections on its own initiative, overseeing the Chain Act. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u103	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED PATRICIA BLANQUER ALCARAZ, OF THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ECONOMY, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS: IS THE GOVERNMENT INTENTION TO PROMOTE THE INCORPORATION OF SPAIN IN THE EUROPEAN PATENT PATENT SYSTEM? [[File number 180/00188]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u104	Questions now addressed by the Minister for Economic Affairs, Industry and Competitiveness. Question by Mrs Patricia Blanquer Alcaraz, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u105	Thank you, President. Mr Minister, before the 9th European Council, the Committee on Industry approved a Socialist Group's GNP urging your Government to promote Spain's accession to the European System of Unitary Patents, a system with a single register, with a single fee payment, with simultaneous and identical protection in all countries and with a single court to settle disputes. It could save 20,000 euros for those who intend to patent in twenty-six countries simultaneously, but last Wednesday Mariano Rajoy was filled with Europeanism and, despite that, he did not answer our spokesman when he asked him about this issue. So we insist. Does the Government intend to promote the incorporation of Spain into this system or, on the contrary, will it turn a deaf ear to this Parliament and cause us to be isolated from the Union by innovation? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u106	Thank you very much. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. As you know, in 2010 the European Commission made a proposal for a single Community patent using the language system of the European Patent Office, according to which applications can be submitted in any language together with a translation into English, French or German. However, this proposal could not go forward, as it required unanimity from all States, and neither Spain nor Italy agreed on the subject of language. In these circumstances, in March 2011, the Council authorised 25 Member States to establish enhanced cooperation with a view to the unitary patent. In addition, in 2012 an international agreement on the unified tribunal was signed, which you commented earlier. The entry into force of the whole scheme is currently pending ratification of the international agreement by the United Kingdom and Germany. Although Spain has always supported the creation of a Community patent title, we cannot join this system, both because of the discrepancies with the above-mentioned language regime and because of the doubts it raises regarding legal certainty. In fact, this was also the position advocated by the former socialist government and shared by business organisations, particularly concerned about Spanish SMEs. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u108	Thank you very much. Mrs. Blanquer.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u109	Thank you, President. Minister, it has been a long time since then and, of course, to maintain this position is not up to a country like Spain and it is inappropriate for someone who dreams of leading the European project. If there is any clear example of enhanced cooperation, this is the case. Of the twenty-eight members of the European Union, twenty-six have decided to take part. Only Spain and Croatia are out. Is that how you want to be the locomotive of Europe? Because if that's the case, we don't even get to the queue. I regret that you are not well informed, because last week Germany ratified its accession, making it very likely that the system will start in December this year and therefore there is no time to waste. Please do not allow innovative Spanish companies to lose competitiveness by staying out of the system. They really bet on the innovation and talent of our country, that there is and very good, by the way. Retrieve the diplomatic negotiations they left a long time ago. From the outside it is impossible to influence neither its design nor the defense of Spanish. Moreover, in the face of Brexit, Spanish territory could be a great candidate as the seat of one of the sections of the unified court, and his Government could not be missing. So they do not condemn us to stay out of the European dream of innovation and prosperity. If you want to go deeper into the European project, you now have a great opportunity to prove it. Send signals to Europe, which are waiting for us, and do not miss this opportunity. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u110	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u111	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honour, I share with you that a European industrial property framework is needed to simplify and reduce the costs of obtaining a patent, but to prevent the use of Spanish - and I am convinced that you agree with me - as an official language, I would assume that our companies would have to translate into one of the official languages the patent applications they make and, in addition, to respect patents not translated into Spanish. In addition, the system would create great legal uncertainty, as actions to attack the validity of a patent from another Member State may only be brought in the language of application, and in case a Spanish company is sued it will have to assume the language chosen by the applicant in the judicial process. Ladies and gentlemen, excluding Spanish also discriminates against our companies, especially the smaller ones, against those of other countries which can use their language and which can lead to a decline in innovation capacity. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that, in any case, Spanish companies will be able to make use of this system when it is in force; the same as companies from other countries. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u112	Thank you very much. - QUESTION OF THE DEPUTATE DON JOSEP VENDRELL GARDENES, OF THE CONFEDERAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP OF THE UNITED STATES - IN COMMUNITY WE CAN IN MAREA, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF ECONOMY, INDUSTRY AND COMPETITIVENESS: WHAT DO THE GOVERNMENT THINKING ABOUT THE PRACTICAL DISEASES OF THE SPAIN BANK? [[File number 180/000179]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u113	Question by Mr. Joseph Vendrell Gardeñes, Member of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u114	Minister, we have one of the banks with the worst reputation in the European Union, proof of which are the two hundred and fifty imputed managers. The bank has been fraudulently financed by bad practices that have led to impoverishment, ruin of many people and enormous suffering. Bad practices, massive frauds such as previous holdings, subordinated debt, abusive commissions, multi-dividual mortgages, floor clauses, early maturity clauses, payments for the formalization of mortgages that would not have to be borne by customers, repayable mortgages or the mortgage lending benchmark. Minister, I ask you about this latest bad practice: What solution do you propose to that 1,300,000 people affected by the IRPH scam?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u115	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u116	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has been the first to take steps to improve transparency in the marketing of financial products and to protect bank users. In 2012 we passed two decree-laws that increased the banks' provisions by more than €86 billion, which was against their results. In addition, we were the first Government to limit the remuneration of bank managers. Similarly, we limit the possibility of marketing complex products among retailers to prevent repeat cases such as those of the preferred ones. And, in turn, the FROB has sent more than fifty dubious transactions to the prosecution. At the same time, we established an arbitration system that allowed more than 334,000 small savers to recover quickly and agile the money they had invested because they had been incorrectly sold the products of the preferred ones. Our successive mortgage market reforms have increased consumer protection by measures such as limiting interest on delays, improving auctioning, strengthening the independence of valuation officers. And since the beginning of the last legislature, the Government has also taken steps to protect vulnerable debtors, from whom nearly 80,000 families have benefited. In this regard, more than 45,600 families have benefited from the code of good practice, which has enabled almost 39,000 debt restructurings and 7,000 payments. More than 24,000 launches have also been suspended, a measure which we have just extended and which will continue until 2020. Finally, the Social Housing Fund was created, which has awarded at a very low price, more than 9,000 rented housing units. As far as this legislature is concerned, we have also put in place an out-of-court mechanism to make it easier for those who have been given opaque terms to quickly recover their money. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Vendrell.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u118	Thank you, President. I see, Minister, that you have no answer for 1,300,000 people affected by the IRPH scam. But you also told me about the measures you have taken. The National Securities Market Commission tells us that the bank is already back on track, placing new risk products on people with no financial and vulnerable knowledge. The IRPH, like other scams I have mentioned to you, is an abusive clause, marketed without informing of the risks, promising low rates when they have always been high above the Euribor, and also placed with lack of transparency and manipulation in the formula of calculation, as the Banco de España itself has confirmed. The unification that you did in 2013 is the only thing that you have done is a change from one IRPH to another and for abusive clauses, such as those that apply, for example, La Caixa, with rates of 4%. One bad practice was replaced by another, minister, one abuse was replaced by another. What are we not asking of him? Solutions for affected persons. It is necessary to establish the nullity of the IRPH because it is abusive and opaque, as well as because of the manipulable nature of its calculation formula. It is necessary to ensure the return to the families of the fraudulently collected. It is necessary to investigate whether there has really been manipulation of this index, but above all, minister, it is necessary to send a clear message: bad banking practices cannot go unpunished. Worry about these 1,300,000 people affected, who do not have to go through the calvary of different judicial processes, which also always loses the bank. Find just solutions for these people [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u119	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u120	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already announced that we are working on a new law on real estate credit to increase the transparency of contracts and to prevent situations of opaque clauses from arising again. These rules shall reinforce the information requirements by means of a pre-filing form in which all sensitive clauses shall be collected. And there will even be a simulation from the point of view of the evolution of interest rates. The signature in the notary must verify that the consumer is fully aware of the content of the contract. In turn, we have just opened the consultation period for the preliminary draft law to transpose the MiFID II Directive, which will regulate advice on the marketing of financial products and increase transparency in the market for shares, bonds and derivatives. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u121	Thank you very much. - of Mrs Elvira Ramón Utrabo, in replacement of Mrs Antonio Hernando Vera, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which forms the Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality: Does the Government consider that its policy has meant an advance in the effective equality of women And men? [[File number 180/000184]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u122	Question to the Minister for Health, Social Services and Equality. Question by Mrs Elvira Ramón Utrabo from the Socialist Group. Go ahead, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u123	On 22 March 2007, the Organic Act on Real Equality between Women and Men was enacted. When 10 years of this law are passed, does the Government consider that its policy has meant progress in real equality between women and men? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u124	Thank you very much. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u125	Thank you, President. Mrs. Ramon, you've made progress. The data reveal an effective advance in equality between women and men. Much remains to be done, but I am convinced that working together, with the whole of society, will continue to move forward. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u126	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ramon.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u127	The Equality Act was carried out because it was not sufficient for the mere formal or legal declaration in the Constitution itself. There was a need for policy development and, above all, for the implementation of the public policies provided for in this Equality Act, but we wanted to achieve real equality between men and women in order to eliminate gender discrimination, such as the wage gap, discrimination in pensions, problems of reconciliation, gender-based violence or the lower presence of women in positions of responsibility. But the two years of government of the People's Party have been disastrous, they have been a step backwards in this direction. With you the gender gap has widened, you have been a government with a very clear negative gender impact. Their labour reform - what about labour reform - has driven women out of the labour market. For the first time in forty years the activity rate began to decline in 2012 and has not stopped. There are more than 100,000 women who have been out of the labour market since 2012, and when I asked her partner, Mrs Báñez, about this issue, she told me that it was not old in my approaches. You have done away with business equality plans, because you have done away with the main instrument, which is the collective agreement. They have reduced the public aid provided for in the law and budgets for equality policies. They have limited the right of young women to voluntary termination of pregnancy. You know why? Because you do not assume that women start from a disadvantaged situation in access to positions of responsibility or to the labour market. You never believe or have ever believed in equality, so you abstained from voting on this law and appealed to the Constitutional Court for parity on the electoral lists. Minister, don't you think there are many years of real opposition to this Equality Act? I'd say too many. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u128	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u129	Thank you, President. Mrs Ramon, the commitment to real equality is not a leftist heritage; it is a commitment of society and we all defend it. Employment is the main tool against inequality, because it guarantees our autonomy and full development. Have we made progress? I don't make slogans; I handle data. When you ruled, out of every 10 stops in Europe, 7 were Spanish; today 1 out of every 2 women working in the eurozone are in Spain. Much remains to be done; we are correcting inequalities between women and men through real and effective policies. We have narrowed the education gap: almost 55% of those enrolled in university last year are women. We have corrected the entrepreneurship gap: 2 out of 3 new entrepreneurs are women. We are narrowing the wage gap: since 2012 we have reduced it to 4 points. We are working to bridge the gap in access to senior management posts: since 2010, there has been an increase in the presence of women on boards of directors, from 12% to 19%. In addition, we are promoting selection and promotion procedures that eliminate discrimination to ensure that women are at all levels of business. We have also corrected the gender gap in pensions: there are already almost 180,000 women who have seen their pension increase thanks to the maternity supplement. We will continue to enhance conciliation: the right to a reduction in childcare time has been extended from eight to twelve years, and paternity leave has been improved from two to four uninterrupted weeks. In addition, we are already drafting the strategic plan for equal opportunities 2017-2020, and above all, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to work for the state pact against gender-based violence, because macho violence is the cruelest form of inequality against women. Women want to take our place. We are 51% of society and we are not going to waste or waste 51% of the female talent. Let us work together for the real and effective equality of women and men in this country. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u130	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u131	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. First, urgent calls from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to the Minister of the Interior on their policies to improve the safety of motorcycle and moped users. For your defence, Mrs Rivera Andrés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u132	Thank you very much. Paco came out with his motorcycle from his home in Bujalance, Córdoba, and took the road to Montoro. Once there he took the N-420. He had always liked that tour through the Sierra de Cardeña in the direction of Puertollano. It was a Saturday in June and it was hot. Near Azuel stopped stretching his legs and took a juice in a road bar, then continued feeling the warm air and speed, changing gears, feeling the engine. He entered the province of Ciudad Real and as he approached Fuencaliente the asphalt betrayed him with two criminal baches. The first one scratched him, with the second one lost control of the bike and flew out; he crashed against two traffic signals. One went through his right side and pierced his lung, the other cut his marrow at the height of the seventh dorsal vertebrae. Lying on the bushes, the young driver knew from the very first moment what had happened to him. From the navel down he noticed nothing; instead, he felt an unbearable pain that scoured his chest. It wasn't hard for him to realize that he had a broken right arm and a loose shoulder. For twenty minutes, until the Civil Guard arrived, Paco seriously wondered if he wanted to continue living. After the silence and the wake of death, many days, many months and many years of struggle arrived in a different life; then the year 2007 ran. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u133	One second, Your Honor. I beg your silence, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u134	That's exactly what Paco felt, silence. What happened to Paco remained in that silence, remains today in the silence, the silence of the victims of trafficking. Minister, in 2015 385 drivers died, 45 more than in 2014, and 3,268 needed hospitalization. One in three people hospitalized for traffic accidents are drivers. But the victims aren't numbers. They're not numbers because it's not easy, because everything changes, because we're all victims. It is the victims who leave and it is the victims who remain, because any of us, of whom we are here, can be victims of a traffic accident. That day, ten years ago, the two officers who arrived at the place where the accident was moved by the integrity of the young man who asked them nothing more to come if he kept both legs. While calling the helicopter, which took another twenty minutes to arrive, the officers themselves confessed to Paco that they had taken care of four others at the same point that week. On Monday, Wednesday and Friday, 3 drivers had lost their lives at the same point, in those two bumps without anyone taking any action on it. Things from this country. They fixed it as a result of my accident, explained Paco Salinas in his room at the Toledo Paraplegic Hospital, which was his home for seven months. On the bed, glued to the wall, scattered travel photos, stamps of the Great Power Christ of the Holy Week of Bujalance, and the T-shirt of a popular career dedicated to him by a friend who said: Champions suffer for defeat. Well, look, Minister, these are the things we need to change in this country. Would any of you who are here today deprive your children of information that might save their lives? I'm sure you don't. In the Directorate-General for Traffic, Minister, we have the data and a calculation algorithm, called Invive, which clearly and objectively identifies the most dangerous sections of our roads according to speed, and I think we should be proud because, by the way, it is a pioneering Spanish patent in Europe. So let's act in the same way with motorcycle accidents, because we know where they have taken place and what are the causes that caused them. It therefore makes no sense to deprive five million drivers in Spain of information that can save their lives. If an area is particularly dangerous for motorcycles, we must signal it by all possible methods: via the Internet, through navigation maps and, of course, by signalling the way itself, Minister. They're not worth an apology. I've heard many times that we have 166,000 kilometers of track, but only 26,000 are from Fomento. That does not work, and I will tell you why: because the Directorate-General for Traffic has the capacity and must also assume the responsibility to inform drivers of the stages that can cost them their lives, and that information we do have at the level of the State and the Directorate-General for Traffic. Manuel Castilla, a professional firefighter, was mutilated by a guardrail on his left leg in a motorcycle accident in 2000. With life remade and with the courage of the rememberer, of the one who refuses to forget, he cannot help but look down when he tells that two years later he lost a friend on the same curve where he fell with the motorcycle. History is repeated in the same places, sometimes by chance or bad luck, but most of the time it is not by chance or bad luck, Minister. This information must be disseminated, it must arrive as soon as possible so that the next driver who passes through the bend of Manuel does not play life. Holy Week is now approaching, the good weather, motorcycle trips are increasing, and at this time even the hospitals themselves are preparing to receive the victims of this massive tragedy that are traffic accidents. We have assumed it as one more part of the exit and return operations, even as part of the vacation, and it seems normal when it doesn't have to be, when it isn't, because the victims aren't numbers. Guardrails are still a deadly trap for drivers. Every year there are mutilations by guardrails in Spain and we are talking about stories and injuries that have a name and surname: Manuel Castilla, Juan Cabrerizo, Paco Salinas, José Fernando González or the paralympic cyclist Juanjo Méndez, for example. And so how long? According to the last specific study carried out for motorcycles by the DGT - by the way, minister, it is 2008, that is nothing; since then absolutely no study has been done on specific traffic for motorcycles - more than half of the dead are produced by roadways, and half of those dead occur by an impact on a guardrail. It is fought against by numerous associations of drivers who accompany us today in Congress, which are today in the rostrum. I take this opportunity to greet you and thank you for joining us here today. Juan Manuel Reyes and Miguel Ángel Serna from Mutua Motera accompany us. - I'm glad you're joining us. José María Riaño and Pedro Díaz del Río from Anesdor accompany us. Accompany us the Association Motorista Ángeles Verdes, with Begonia González Rentero, José Antonio Rego and Domingo Tena. We are also accompanied by the International Motorcycle Defence Union, with Juan Carlos Toribio. - Thank you so much for being here too. [[Applauds]] José María Barona of the Real Moto Club of Spain accompanies us, and Andrés Pérez of the Real Federación Motocyclista Española accompanies us. I believe, Minister, that the representation we have here today clearly tells you of the interest in resolving this issue. I think we all need to work together so that the warden problem starts to be something of the past. I understand that, Minister. I understand that you will say that 166,000 kilometres of road involve a tremendous disbursement for the budget and that it is impossible to change everything, but let's change those areas that are most dangerous. We have the information and you have experts with this Invive program that can save many lives. Let us do this, because we must act as soon as possible on that curve of Manuel so that no one will ever leave their lives in it, and that is budgetably feasible, Minister, of course it is. And not only that, but we have to start now, so that it doesn't cost more time or more lives. With this data from the most dangerous sections we must start acting immediately, we cannot wait another day. Although my question is addressed to you, Mr Zoido, I also wanted to address - although there is no one else in the Government - several more ministers because road safety is something integral, it is something we have to do among all of us. I am also addressing Mr De la Serna, for his responsibility on roads; Mr Català, who has yet to amend the Penal Code because today if a person escapes after an accident in which he or she has died, he or she is not considered to have omitted the duty of relief. That does not make any sense today in our Criminal Code, and that needs to be changed, Minister. It's very important that we change it. [[Applauds]] This goes for Ana González - yes, it goes for her - who lost her husband hit in a bicycle accident. It goes for her and for my commitment to her, for the memory of her husband and, above all, because no, because the victims are not numbers. Of course, yes, I would like to address Mr Montoro - who is not here either - and his budgets. I wanted to ask you - ask you when you are discussing budgets, Mr Zoido - what is the value of a life or what is the value of a death that can be avoided. In 2016, traffic accidents claimed the lives of 1,160 people. Sometimes it seems to us only a distant and silent figure; 1,160 people are as if in Madrid the entire population of El Berrueco and Lozoya disappeared. Or as if a third of the population of Alcolea del Río, in Seville - which you will know very well - was suddenly no longer so simple. There are 1,160 people, each with their own name and their own history, which could be ours, that of any of us. Minister, I think we need to act and do it now. I refer to Paco's words; Paco said he wanted to go back to work in college, that his dream was to go back on the bike. When his accident occurred, he said that his brother, who is also a biker, was very touched and that he was going to stop riding a motorcycle. He said to him, "No, keep riding a motorcycle because when I get back riding a motorcycle, I want you to be the first person I go with. Minister, never again break your dreams because of a bad patch or lack of signage or a guardrail that cuts your life. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u135	I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u136	Thank you. President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to greet all the representatives of the various associations of motorcycle users and also the associations of victims. I have to tell you that I know how you feel, first of all, because I am a motorcycle user and because I consider myself a victim of a traffic accident. I would like to thank the speaker in this case from the Citizens' Group for his speech, which is certainly very emotional. I, without a doubt, cannot help remembering Paco and so many people he mentioned because they had an accident. Each of them has been swept away by certain circumstances that have plagued and changed their lives, both to themselves and to their families. Someday if you want I'll tell you mine and you'll see how suffering also makes the words that are heard here surprise me, because I believe, not because a child lost his life when he was seventeen years old in a car accident, that all of us sitting here have a commitment to improving road safety. I'm convinced we all have it. I can assure you that this is one of my priorities, and it is also one of the Government's priorities, and I think it must be a task for all of us, and we have to work on it. That is why, from the very beginning, being aware of the situation we are going through, I have committed myself to reaching a state pact for road safety. I have reached out to everyone, to all the parliamentary groups, to all the actors involved in road safety, to public administrations and to civil society. With what objectives? With a dual objective: to reduce the number of traffic accidents and ensure safe and sustainable mobility through proper traffic management. I will put some data on the table, although it is true - I insist, you have repeated it many times and I say it always - that a single case is a tragedy, but we have to manage the data and be objective with which we each manage. I have already had the opportunity in the Commission to show the balance of road accidents showing a slight increase, of 1.4%, in the number of accidents, the already severe increase of 2.6% of the deceased - there are 29 more than in 2015 - and the increase of 4.3% in hospitalised persons compared to 2015. Thus, the trend of the last thirteen years of decline in the number of victims was broken. This data in itself is a fundamental reason for working intensively and, although a national strategy was in force until 2020, we have come to work from the Directorate-General for Traffic, which I am convinced you know. It is also good to know that in Spain fortunately we are still far below the European Union's mortality rate, so we will be doing something right, although we must continue to redouble our efforts. In answering a question I acknowledged that in the European Union there were 52 deaths per million inhabitants and 36 in Spain. I insist that this cannot serve as a consolation, let alone as a stimulus to redouble our efforts to return to the downward trend of victims and accidents in recent years. I am not going to use as an argument either the increase in the number of vehicles in the mobile park or that of the changes and increase of the displacements. I think it is important to know that, given the type of road, conventional roads are still very different where there are more fatalities in accidents, 75%. While they are experiencing a 3 % decrease compared to 2015, on motorways and motorways the number of deaths has increased by 3 %, unlike in conventional ones. As I have already reported, exits from the track are the leading cause of death in accidents, 47% on high-capacity roads and 41% on conventional roads. In highways and highways the rear and multiple collision was the cause of 20% of fatalities and 17% by pedestrians, while in conventional roads 25% was by frontal collisions. Focusing on the subject raised by his lordship in this inquiry, I must say that in 2016 the number of people killed in motorcycle and moped accidents decreased, since in 2016 214 users died - in 2015 there were 10 fewer - and 21 in the moped, - in the previous year there were 6 less -. I insist that this should be used as an acquittal and not as a justification. On the contrary, in order for you to sit well on the general picture, the dead in tourism, 604, increased by 6% compared to the previous year, 34 more, and so did the fatal victims by bus, 18 in 2016 and 2 in 2015. The number of dead pedestrians was also increased by 5. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important that you know that of the 214 killed on motorcycle 4 did not use the helmet at the time of the accident, and of the 21 killed on moped only one did not wear it. Among cyclists, of the 33 dead 6 did not use helmets, although they were mandatory on long-distance routes. It is not my intention to exceed myself in the data, but I think it is interesting to make an overview of these figures. They will allow me to assure you that I know that behind every accident there are tragedies with names, surnames and families who see how their lives change forever. I said that at the beginning of this speech. Some have told me: I never thought that it could happen to me and it has happened to me, and to other friends and companions who in one way or another have been marked by the tragedy of road accidents. Therefore, a plan of urgent measures to improve road safety for all road users has been launched by the Directorate-General for Traffic, without prejudice to the continued implementation of the 2010-2020 National Strategy. And that is why certain measures have been put in place to improve road safety, especially for motorcycle and moped users. First, the installation of longitudinal sound guides. The fundamental objective is to prevent exits from the track and frontal collisions, preventing drivers and motorcyclists from involuntaryly invading the track of the opposite direction or suffering an exit from the track. They're settling in. Secondly, rationalization in the forward zone. The rationalization and redistribution of the advancement stages generates fundamental protection for motorcyclists, due to their vulnerability in case of collision against a vehicle with a larger mass. Third, the establishment of intelligent crossings because crossings at the level are objectively an element of risk of the track. The possibility of giving advance notice to vehicles travelling by the preferred route, of the presence of a vehicle that is in a position to access the crossing, significantly reduces the danger of crossings, and it should also be noted that specific sensors will be used for the detection of vehicles on the main track and on the accesses, including the motorcycle. Fourth, speed tellers. This preventive reinforcement, showing the rider at the speed at which he is driving, allows the rider to adapt his speed sufficiently in advance and to travel through the section in question in safety conditions. Fifthly, a new methodology for determining and studying the black spots you have referred to in order to prevent you from following points where accidentality continues to preside over the numbers that make you have that black spot consideration. You mention in the text itself, and you have said so in the interpellation, the EuroNCAP RAT methodology, which is envisaged as one of those which will be used by the Directorate-General for Traffic for the objective evaluation of the routes which, with the cooperation of the various track owners, will ensure an optimal level of safety in the road network. In addition, motorcycle accidents will be analysed independently to identify risk areas and to make proposals for measures by the various administrations competent in this area and thus improve the safety of motorcyclists. Sixthly, a new surveillance instruction in the Civil Guard traffic group and an annual operational plan where specific sections are to be dedicated to improving the safety of motorcyclists, through the intensive surveillance and control of the sections and slots where there is a greater presence of motorcyclists, and in this way ensure compliance with the rules and respect for the rest of the vehicles. New criteria also, seventhly, for the implementation and management of the cinemometers, the radars, to ensure good management of them and that they are useful and avoid risk situations; sections with speed alerts showing the registration. The sections where registration alerts will be installed will allow for a significant increase in the safety of motorcyclists who are travelling through them. Installation of speed control points in sections of special danger and, in this sense, because of their preventive character through the prior signage, we want to reduce the accidentality and danger of the sections where they are located. Reinforcement of the signs in the Invive sections, of which he has also spoken, to prevent in the sections of conventional roads with greater Invive, index that evaluates the presence of the binomial excess speed and accidentality. These speed overruns will result in greater safety for motorcyclists if they have already been foreseen by facilitating the most uniform flow of traffic, avoiding unnecessary advances and other risk situations. Guide to good practice on urban crossings and sections. In this regard, the good practice guide will collect actions aimed at improving the safe fit of motorcycles and mopeds in the urban environment. Communication measures with examples of real distractions and testimonies of victims of trafficking. The example I can give you is that of the other day when I presented with Tricycle the campaign to raise awareness about the use of the mobile, where it looked perfectly like a motorcyclist was talking on the mobile and then sending a message at the same time that he was driving the motorcycle. He showed great skill, but the risk was very high. Finally, the State road education plan. In the elaboration of this State road education plan, motorcycle users must have a prominent role as recipients of some measures and as active participants, through the Higher Traffic Council and the main motorcycling associations. There is no doubt that measures must be taken for prevention and, above all, the assurance of what the fences must be like - what is known as "removals" - so that they do not increase the risk and the consequences of a fall and the subsequent exit from the road - in the second intervention I will be able to devote myself to deepening, these were subjects specific to my department and now I will be able to tell you what is also being done -. But I think it is an important step - I finish, Madam President - that Spain is pushing, as a Member State of the European Union, the progressive introduction of improvements in vehicles. Since 2016, all new motorcycle models with a cylinder capacity of more than 125 cubic centimeters incorporate ABS. I believe that this is a good measure and, above all, it seems to me that reducing the time for accident assistance must be a good way to protect, guarantee and have a better response. For this purpose, the eCall motorcycle system will consist mainly of an integrated device in the vehicle capable of collecting accident data and sending them to 112, and the possibility of having helmets compatible with eCall that would collect additional data and automatically establish a voice call in free hands is already being considered. In short, we are working to get safer behaviors from drivers; but we also want to increase road safety for this and improve knowledge of the drivers' accidentality and their own mode. It is one of my priorities, Your Honor, I guarantee it, I do not doubt it, and I guarantee you that we will continue to work intensively both in the diagnosis of the causes of the problem and in the design of the solutions. I think we all have to be together, you and I have started talking about life, and that is the fundamental thing, so I hope to count on the contributions of all those who sit in this House, for the good of all but, above all, for the good of those whom they are representing. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u137	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u138	Thank you, Madam President. I wanted to thank the Minister personally, Mr Zoido, for his sensitivity to traffic accidents. That is the most important thing we need to start working, that sensitivity and that commitment to road safety. In that sense, I want the Minister to know that he has me on his side, that I know the DGT deeply - I have worked on it for ten years, as you well know - and that for me one of the objectives of being here, in this House, is precisely that, one day that traffic accidents will come and we will take them seriously. Because, as I said before and as the minister said, it can happen to any of us, and I'm deeply sorry because I know you have that sensitivity because you've lived it. That's the first step and we have a lot of gains in that direction with you. The Minister commented on his commitment to that road safety pact. I would say that it is very good, that I add myself, that of course in Citizens we join; but we need facts and we need budget, Minister. If we don't invest in road safety, if we don't invest to put an end to those guardrails that today are mutilating drivers in Spain, we won't get anything. We need a budget and I insist on it. Road safety is not earned only by words or by state covenants. We need a budget, we need concrete tools and measures that DGT also has. You commented that motorcycle accidents had fallen in 2016. Look, Minister, you know how I know that this data is not consolidated. The only reliable data we have today of motorcycle accidents are data from 2015. As you know, these data are sometimes not consolidated until September of this year, which is what happened in 2016. Many more drivers throughout 2016, when data is consolidated, they will have lost their lives, and what we do know is that from 2014 to 2015 there are 45 fewer drivers on our roads. So I sincerely believe that we should take the data very seriously, and above all the feelings of the victims. You have commented on a number of urgent measures and I agree: the eCall for motorcycles, the Invive, which can also be used for motorcycles, is not just a matter for speed. He insists on the supervision instruction of the Civil Guard, which does an excellent job; I have worked with them - as I say - for ten years, but surveillance is not everything. We must also opt for prevention and for measures that are budget viable, such as replacing those guardrails from our roads in those sections that can be, that it is feasible to know where - and we can already know - those most dangerous sections are where lives are lost to replace guardrails in those areas. That's budget-wise. All the measures taken are important but, Minister, I insist, take them now, let's do the job now. Let us not waste time on paper or on measures that ultimately do not produce results. We need to save the lives of many drivers who today continue to play it on a curve, continue to play it on a bump and, above all, continue to play it on those guardrails. You gave the figure just like me, we're talking about that almost half of those who died in a motorcycle accident happen by track exits, and half of them happen because they end up cutting their lives in a guardrail. We cannot allow that, Minister, we have to act and we can act now. There is a theory that says that those people we have lost to someone close to whom we loved, who died before time, we must live twice as much and we must live for ourselves and for them. Minister, I believe that apart from living twice as much, I believe that we must strive twice as hard. I propose four concrete measures which we can start to implement now, not tomorrow, but today. One, identify the hazardous areas of the entire road network using accident data and the Invive-like calculation algorithm of the General Traffic Directorate specific for motorcycles. Two, inform drivers and associations - who are accompanying us today - to distribute in real time that information about those areas via the Internet, by navigation systems and of course on their own route, for example, by changing the color of the lines from white to green so that the driver feels that he is in a different area. Three, immediately replace the guardrails in those most dangerous sections, which can be identified. Maybe it's not much and you should fight in the budget to get it done. Four, inform autonomous communities, parliaments and municipalities so that they too signal and change the guardrails in their areas of competence. I insist, the victims are not numbers, they are stories and memories of those who leave, and they are bites and wounds in the lives of those who remain, Minister. Let's act. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u139	Thank you very much. To conclude the debate, the Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u140	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Rivera, thank you very much for the tone you have used and for making some proposals that can help to improve everything relating to accidents from the motorcyclists' point of view. When you have told me to continue deepening in the Invive I can assure you that, because of the data you work in my power - which you may also have, because of the place where you have served so much - there are 1,200 more points that have stood out as of high sinisterity. Mrs Rivera, I must thank you for the tone you have used and for the proposals you have been making. I believe that of the four points that he has explained several have already been developed and implemented, such as the identification of the points where there is greater sinisterity. I know it's been done on a continuous basis, according to reports in my power. You who have served society a long time from the General Directorate of Traffic know that there are magnificent officials there who are perfectly detecting them, and once they do you pass the information, you are declaring yourself and you are being incorporated as points of high sinisterity. And it should be communicated and made known to them, so that in the end with social networks we are able to get there as quickly as possible and in real time, which is something we can enjoy today. This looks good to me. There are many communications through this route from the Directorate-General for Traffic. I will now give you some information about replacing the guardrails. As for communicating to autonomous communities and municipalities where the points are, he knows that this is something that is done very often so that in all places action can be taken by the competent administration, which must act. As you pointed out earlier there is no doubt that, with a body of technicians as specialized as those of the General Directorate of Traffic or the grouping of the Civil Traffic Guard itself, they will be the ones to make the appropriate recommendations for autonomous communities and local entities to take the precise measures so that at least those elements that come to introduce a greater danger in the event of an accident can be replaced. Therefore, since I was to some extent at stake in the relations of the various ministries - such as the Ministry of Development to make investments or the Ministry of Finance to give the money - I can assure you that there is harmony between the entire Government; I am talking about an absolute coincidence in improving everything that concerns sinestrality, in improving the personal means, both in the Civil Guard and in traffic, in improving the black spots, and not only in the signage, but also in an ostensible and intense improvement of all the means of protection. The Ministry of Development has always been very sensitive to the accidents of motorcyclists, so they have been improving for a long time, since 1995, when they begin to install and replenish barriers, replacing each other. He says that nothing has been done lately, but I have to tell him that the criteria for applying vehicle containment elements come to harmonize and unify all the above criteria, and this is 2014. At present, more than 1,900 kilometres of barriers to the protection of motorcyclists have been installed on the State road network; in particular, more than 250 kilometres of these barriers have been installed on the State road network since 2012; they have also been replaced by autonomous communities and even by certain municipalities. I can assure you that there is a firm commitment from the Ministry of Development to continue to install these systems in new works or in the replacement of existing barriers and that they do not meet all the requirements currently in force. The installation of protection barriers for motorcyclists will be included in the programming of the actions, and today there is a Plan of barriers for motorcyclists, which will involve the installation of some 270 additional kilometers. The tender budget has been slightly over 23 million euros. It has been auctioned in the last quarter of 2015, and after it has been awarded it is running throughout 2017. I'm done. In addition to the installation of protection barriers for motorcyclists, the Ministry of Development carries out activities consisting of the removal of obstacles, levelling and filling of berms, margin clearances, filling of coves, exits and entrances in the link branches, elimination of fish tail terminals and adaptation of median steps, which also have an impact on the improvement of the safety conditions of all motorcyclists. I would like to end by reiterating my thanks for the tone, sensitivity and measures proposed, and I hope that we will all be able to continue working together to improve road safety in general and for drivers in particular. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u141	Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) can, in common, support the reform and measures envisaged to promote the Government to combat and bring about the growing corruption in water management, in many cases linked to the privatization of water and sanitation services. [[File number 172/000034]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u142	We turn to the urgent appeal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, concerning the reforms and measures that the Government plans to promote to combat and eliminate the growing corruption in water management, in many cases linked to the privatization of water and sanitation services. For your defence, Mr. Arrojo Agudo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we should have started this plenary session, on World Water Day declared by the United Nations, as it deserves, with an institutional declaration that recalled and welcomed the fact that the United Nations adopted the Declaration of the Human Right to Water and Sanitation in full by 2010 without any vote against. We should also have welcomed, together with the Plurinational Republic of Bolivia, the leadership of Spain, which, together with Germany, presented a similar proposal at the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva. However, I do not know why the People's Party has not approved it, it has not seen it convenient to talk about human rights. I feel perplexity and concern. I would have liked to look into the President's eyes to tell him that I am concerned, and to ask him why he is concerned about entering this debate on the basis of what is required of us by the United Nations, which is the practical and effective recognition of the human right to water and sanitation. In any case, I recognize that the debate that we are opening about whether to manage such basic services as water and sanitation through private or public management is strongly ideological. Now I, in the short time I have, will be proposing democratic arguments, which could be of consensus, and I will try to ensure that the motion that comes out of here is in the form of practical proposals to combat and put an end to the schemes of galloping corruption that arise and multiply in terms of water in this country, and I hope to have majorities that make clear the position of the House. We can say with some collective pride, and above lefts and rights, that the challenge of guaranteeing safe drinking water to all, rich and poor, has been a public challenge. I am proud to live in a country where I open the key, as they say in Latin America, or the tap in any city in my country and I have drinking water. However, since the 1970s the movement that ends up being known as neoliberalism in which the vision is another; the vision is that the market must be prioritized, that everything is bought and sold. I am a professor of economic analysis, and in the first class I give to my students I always explain one basic thing to them, and it is that the economy is very important, but the Aristotelian sense of the term economy must be recovered. And I say to you: in this life the most important things, such as the human right to water, like the true love of the cup, are neither bought nor sold. It's fundamental. However, the neoliberal model has advanced, and there are currently three major models of water privatization in the world. The first was the Chilean model, then came the British model and then the French model. The Chilean model is imposed in Pinochet times and remains in force, because the dictator has taken great care to link the Water Privatization Act to the Constitution, so that even Mrs Bachelet, with her huge majority obtained at the polls, cannot change that law at present. If we were Chileans and Chileans and needed water until recently we would have to come and buy it in Madrid, and today we would have to go and buy it in Rome, because Endesa is the effective owner of most of the Chilean rivers. Fortunately, this model has not been extended by any other country. With the British model what Mrs Thatcher did was privatise the water and sanitation networks from a pen. Nor has it spread to any other country. The third model is French. This one is in Spain and extends around the world with the shameful support, from my point of view, of the World Bank. What is proposed is to privatize management, even with very subtle but no less perverse formulas. The mayor is told: don't worry, Mr. Mayor, I don't want to privatize water or networks; let's do management, but let's even make a joint venture, PPP, public private partnerships, public-private partnership, and you mostly; public management; yes man, 51% public, 49% private! Does Isabel II Channel ring any bells? Of course, the contract must then be read, and a clause immediately appears that says, on behalf of the know-how, of the savoir faire: as this is a very complex issue for you, Mr. Mayor, by mutual agreement management is awarded, it is a function that belongs to the minority partner. So the business is not controlled both through the shareholder majority, as well as through the control of information and management. Subtle, perverse and effective. And then comes another clause that says: and with respect to purchases, contracts and subcontracts will also be made by the private partner. Public competitions, the free market, dear friends and friends disappear for twenty, thirty or forty years. Disappear! And it generates what is technically called the secondary-input market shielding, where it moves more than 50% of the value added of the sector. That's the big deal. The company itself buys and hires its companies, the associated companies, at any price, without market competition. And who pays for that? The company doesn't pay for it! There is another clause that says that costs - and extra costs of course - are paid by citizens at the rate. This perversion, this model that absolutely breaks the principles of the general interest, and even the principles of the free market, has a key to get it into town halls. The key is called concessional canon. In short, what Mr. Entrepreneur does is to get to the mayor and say, "Do you have financing problems, Mr. Mayor?" How about, with the process of anorexizing public finances at the municipal level that has driven Europe to pressure, and that Montoro law has led to an extreme situation, almost cruelty, nothing reasonable indeed! What you are told in that situation to the mayor is: don't worry, I have here a concessional canon for you if you leave me the concession for twenty, thirty or forty years. It's like an advance, like a credit. That credit that the mayor is prevented from asking the BBVA, is allowed if it privatizes. And who pays for that? Citizens on the fare, so with water fare money ends up going money to the dark box of the city hall and the mayor does what he wants. This darkness of the concessional canon is what has led France, the inventors of this process, of this model - recently in the law of transparency and the fight against corruption - to prohibit the concessional canon, to deactivate that perverse incentive to privatization and, as I say, to corruption. Pokemon is our tip of the iceberg. But Pokemon is not a single case; there are already dozens of corruption cases brought by Aguas de Barcelona; the main water multinational, Suez, with Spanish brand, Aguas de Barcelona, to see how far Judge Pilar de Lara considers Aquagest, which is a company of Aguas de Barcelona, an illicit association, not a company. This is our Spanish brand in Latin America! An illegal association! A plot of corruption that spreads across all communities, more than ten communities! The judge has decided to extend, and not to stay in Asturias and Galicia, so the cases are already starting to come out in Murcia, surely in Aragon too, in Valencia, etc. It is not a rotten apple, dear friends and friends, it is a plot of crime based on Aquagest, based on Aguas de Barcelona, and that captures political positions at municipal levels, obtainers in political parties. The second front that encourages and encourages corruption in our country is the state water society, Minister. State societies like Aquamed and Aquaes, which were introduced as a great idea by Mr. Cañete when you were already part of your team. I remember an intervention by Mr Cañete who came to say that this was a new way of introducing us, of opening us up to evolution, to new and creative forms of water management through privatization. It was a matter of private capital co-financing large hydraulic works. Neither a euro came in, nor the savings banks that were under the command and command of the incumbent political authority invested a euro. It was a failure in that sense. But what did you get? To obscure the management of public investment in hydraulic construction, to obscure all that management, which has resulted in two things. The first, corruption obviously. And the second, massively hiding irrecoverable public debt that users of these great hydraulic works are not going to pay, hiding it behind those companies. Minister, this is not a rotten apple again. Its responsibility, at the very least political, is clear. It is involved that was his dome in the ministry, from the General Secretariat to the Directorates General in the investigation that Judge Velasco has done and in the investigation of the police. On the other hand, when you were already a minister, you approved the undue compensation to FCC, who were explicitly telling you the legal services that were illegal. You were responsible for this. Its political responsibility extends to the present day, when it continues to pursue the engineers who had the courage to denounce irregular practices, Doña Azahara Peralta and Doña Gracia Ballesteros. You continue to challenge and try to bring new appeals before two judgments of nullity, instead of recognizing them as the heroines of the denunciation of corruption. In your reply I ask you not to claim that you did not know anything, because we already have overdoses: with an ex-minister who knows nothing about the Jaguar that was in her garage, with an express from the Community of Madrid who does not know anything about the obvious rottenness that surrounded her for years, with an infant who trusts her husband and does not understand current accounts. That's it! [[Applauds]] They take on their political responsibilities, minister. But in any case, as long as that comes, could you tell me, please, what measures and strategies are you going to put in place to combat and put an end to the plethora of cases, the plot of corruption that arises everywhere, linked to privatization and to state water societies? What, on the other hand, is going to face the challenge of sanitation that Europe poses to us and that goes beyond small municipalities in particular, which finally leads to perverse and dark privatization processes? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party (Christian Democrats) May-In-Communicate May-In-Mariea, stood up.- Most of them wear a blue T-shirt with the following text written: 100% public water]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u144	Thank you very much. I now give the floor on behalf of the Government to the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u145	Thank you very much, President. Today we celebrate World Water Day, declared by the United Nations in recognition that water is one of the most precious assets we have, is life itself. For our country it is also a scarce good because of its peculiar climatic characteristics, with an irregular distribution in rainfall, with regions clearly lacking in water resources. For this reason, and especially for us, it is essential to establish a rigorous, well-planned water policy that responds to our consumption needs with the highest quality and environmental sustainability, with all guarantees and that responds to the European guidelines. And this Government is particularly proud of the achievements that have been achieved since 2012 as Spain then lacked a water policy, a resource that was very abandoned. We are also committed at the international level to the right to water and sanitation, to the achievement of the sustainable development goals of the United Nations 2030 Agenda, where we also work from the ministry and join our collaboration in the Government's policy of cooperation on water, which no one has any doubts about. But, Your Honor, let me first of all express my surprise at your request for an inquiry: for the sake of clarity - two lines - for the lack of justification - none - and, above all, for the apparent focus on one area, that of the management of mouth water and sanitation services, in which the Government of Spain has no competence. As provided for in article 25(2)(c) of Act No. 7/1985 of 2 April 1985 regulating the bases of the local regime, public supply and sanitation services are the competence of the municipalities. And in particular - I quote the law -: The municipality will in any case exercise its own powers under the laws of the State and of the autonomous communities in the following areas, including the supply of drinking water at home and the evacuation and treatment of waste water. In short, as the law itself points out, the provision of both services is the responsibility of the local corporations, either directly or through the parliaments or with the help of the autonomous communities. Therefore, in this area of competence, recognized as local by the current legislation, the General Administration of the State only acts by investing in those works that are declared of general interest. In other words, the State carries out supply and purification proceedings only if such works of general interest have been declared by law. Having said that, Your Honor, as I said before, today is World Water Day, which this year focuses on purification. In this regard, as I have told you, we are not competent, but we are committed and provide important support to local corporations and autonomous communities. When the People's Party came to the Government what was found in water policy in general, and in the area of sanitation and purification in particular, it was a situation of abandonment. Spain had a deficit in waste water treatment; in fact we had already opened three criminal cases for failure to comply with the European directive affecting more than 700 urban agglomerations. For environmental reasons, in order to preserve the good state of water ecosystems, for legal reasons, in order to meet the environmental objectives set out in national and European legislation, something that is of the utmost importance to us, and I also mean to comply with the European Union in order to try to avoid the imposition of sanctions in the European Union, because we are concerned about transferring this cost to the citizens, the Government had to start by carrying out a detailed analysis of the situation of purification in our country and looking for complementary funding. An audit was launched in all the autonomous communities, agglomeration to agglomeration, allowing to know the situation and establish a prioritization of investments in the 2016-2021 horizon. The corresponding actions were included in the programmes of measures of the watershed hydrological plans of the various demarcations, to which also - that is to say in passing - an enormous effort had to be made to recover a backlog of years, of almost an entire legislature. In order to promote the solution to this problem, the Government approved in 2014 the Mediated Plan for Growth, Competitiveness and Efficiency, the Growth Plan, which incorporated actions in the area of sanitation and purification declared to be of general interest. This plan guarantees an investment of almost EUR 1.1 billion until 2020, in order to meet the objectives of the Urban Wastewater Treatment Directive 91/2017, and to meet the improvement of the quality of water, which is as much as working for a better quality of life for citizens. In 2015, 55 clean-up and sanitation activities were already launched, but their implementation was less than the desired one and they had European funds for the period 2007-2013. It should be noted that 31 of these proceedings had opened infringement files or were under investigation. Also in 2015, the Ministry launched 73 new sanitation and purification contracts that involve an estimated investment of more than 250 million euros. Of these, 50 have been tendered between 2015 and 2016 for some 136 million, and 40 contracts for 78 have been formalised. At the Lake of 2017 it is planned to start another 20 actions, with an expected bid amount of 110 million euros. In short, Your Honor, a very important effort to improve the quality of water and to meet the environmental objectives in our water bodies, a work that this Government has always given the highest priority, and which will have greater momentum in the coming years, as we are launching new initiatives still in the project phase. It should also be noted that in this task we are working with the Autonomous Communities to coordinate efforts within a comprehensive planning that will definitely respond to the water purification needs of our municipalities. Thus, for the implementation of all these projects of general interest, of all this important investment, the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment makes use of all the instruments available to it, acting well through the Directorate-General for Water, hydrographic confederations or State water societies. In particular, the use of these companies is intended to encourage the participation of users in the development and operation of these infrastructures as laid down in the Water Framework Directive. I would also like to recall, Your Honor, that water is - it is already - a public good, and not because it appears as such in a political programme; we decided it long ago by the Spaniards. It is set out in article 1.3 of the Waters Act, which states that all waters forming part of the hydrological cycle constitute a unitary resource subordinate to the general interest and which forms part of the State public domain as a hydraulic public domain, so that the Government's responsibility is to ensure that the management of this resource is carried out with all guarantees for the citizens, following criteria of efficiency and efficiency, because that is our obligation to the citizens, the greatest proof of respect for them: to provide the proper provision of services by ensuring the efficient use of taxpayers' money. This is the requirement of public service with which we fulfill from the ministry by promoting the projects to which I have referred through the instrument that in each case best serves the general interest. In order to ensure greater efficiency, rigour and transparency in the use of public funds and control of expenditure, we have already strengthened guarantees in all areas of the ministry, including in that of State societies, in particular with the implementation of recruitment instructions in August 2012 for all agencies under the ministry; instructions setting out extremely strict criteria in this area. In particular, in compliance with these instructions, the automatic bid evaluation criteria, such as the price, must be at least 80 % of the score, with the technical criteria being limited to a maximum of 20 % in order to improve objectivity. I would remind you, Your Honor, that the current Public Sector Contracts Act does not restrict the subjective criteria and only states that when they exceed 50% in administrative contracts they must be assessed by a group of outside experts. Only this measure has already resulted in a drastic reduction in discretion with which it could be operated prior to 2012. In the case of companies, these instructions tighten and harmonise the procurement procedures, imposing various requirements not laid down in the legislation, including the following: All contract documents and models must have the same structure and content to be informed by the State Advocate and the Ministry, thus reducing the discretion of the undertaking when contracting; it is mandatory to specify in the tender documents the solvency requirements and the material and human means which the tenderers must undertake to commit themselves to in the performance of the contract, thus avoiding discretion; it is mandatory to use the open procedure and only exceptionally the negotiated procedure, whose use must be expressly justified and authorised by the board of directors; if the negotiated procedure is used, a minimum of five undertakings must be invited against the three required by law, thereby improving the competition; the maximum score of the criteria which depend on a subjective value judgement shall not exceed 20 % of the total maximum score shall therefore be at the minimum score. In short, it is a question of increasing objectivity. The scores obtained by applying the subjective criteria will always be read in public before the opening of the envelopes containing the economic offer; this ensures the transparency of the process. The approval of amendments or supplementary benefits not provided for shall be exceptional and shall be expressly authorised by the chairman of the Management Board. Unjustified costs are thus limited and common rules are laid down to assess the abnormal or disproportionate nature of tenders in order to avoid arbitrary decisions. The recruitment desks must necessarily include a State lawyer, which reinforces the guarantees of legality. Your Honor, the law does not impose the obligations set out in the Ministry's recruitment instructions. This is a higher requirement of rigour and transparency that has been generally established in all departments of the Ministry since 2012. This government has already acted. I believe that so far it is clear that we are committed to achieving our national objectives in terms of sanitation and sewage treatment, beyond, I stress, the competence to provide the service, which, I recall, is municipal. I also believe that it will be clear to your honor that with the measures adopted we guarantee a much higher level of control, transparency, objectivity, legality and consistency than before 2012. In short, a political and management action which I believe is sound, well-oriented and which shows that there is nothing that respects the ministry that supports the unfounded statements that are gathered in the formulation of its inquiry, for not to go into the case of many other falsehoods that his lordship has quoted from this rostrum. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Arrojo Agudo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u147	Minister, I must begin by thanking you for not arguing that you knew nothing. Something's something. But it maintains its blatant political irresponsibility. With regard to the falsehoods I have been able to say - he has called me a liar - we will talk. Firstly, it does not offer solutions. This is the fault of the municipalities, of the autonomous communities... I'm going to propose solutions. In your last speech you will have to tell me whether you agree or not, but they are your competence. I'll start with an information reference that you haven't given me time before. You said: I have competence in major investments in hydraulic works. I give you just one example, although I have so many because I have been working on these issues of water saving for half my life: Aquaes in Navarra, the watering of Navarre. It was made Itoiz, it was made the Navarra channel and it is not going to recover even 20% of the public investment - I know it well because I have studied it thoroughly - but in the end Aquaes privatizes the last sector, the management of the irrigation, and there we find a generous concession to Acciona, La Caixa, Agbar - Aguas de Barcelona; that said of an illicit, corrupt association - and OHL. And to guarantee the business in the irrigation of these companies is guaranteed a toll in the shade of 683 euros per hectare and year for thirty years; almost four times more than the regents pay. Is that public administration of general interest? He says that in water and sanitation the Government is helping. Indeed, that too is his responsibility. I have already told you; there is a responsibility of the State in which the waters have to be healed. The Government of Spain, which is not the People's Party or the PSOE, sent Aragon 140 million for works of general interest. Indeed, as you say, works of general interest, the small municipalities of the Pyrenees. There are 140 million arriving in Aragon and the leader of the government of Aragon, it is true, he says: I already have this arranged with privatization; let me spend it on anything else. And the ministry accepts, collaborates with this privatization. Then the debuggers are not done and today their ministry, instead of seeing what they do with those works of general interest that have not been carried out, fine the municipalities. That is, those works that you had to have done with public money of general interest from Madrid are not made, privatized and now you fine the municipalities. [[Applauds]] I quickly make concrete proposals to address the problem of the corruption plot, where there are politicians from different parties and where large companies are. First, an external audit, not an internal report or a report tailored to the College of Engineers, on Acuamed and Acuae, which is the twin sister, with the same DNA as Acuamed and with the same direction from the dome of the ministry that has induced corruption in Acuamed. Secondly, the dismantling of these state water societies. Even the Court of Auditors told them, it suggested that they reconsider their existence. Thirdly, to abolish the concessional canon, as France has done, for reasons of protection of transparency and the fight against corruption. And finally, empower the municipalities. I would like to welcome from here that Ada Colau, the municipalities of change, all of Europe is today in Barcelona talking precisely about the public management of waters that in Spain have launched the municipalities of change. [[Applauds]] That applause goes for them. I want to end up saying what I said at first. The important things of life such as the right to water and sanitation, as the cup says for true affection, are neither bought nor sold. And I ask that the last applause - if anyone wants to applaud - be not for me, but for Red Agua Pública, which has been fighting the citizens' initiative, which has been fighting in the streets and which here receives our support. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party (Christian Democrats) We can-In Comú Ponde-In Marea, stood up.- Several Members of the same group have spread over the railings of blue t-shirts in which they are read: 100% public water]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, before giving the floor to the Minister, I remind you that the Spanish Language Dictionary says that a clothesline is a place or device of ropes or wires where clothes are held. This Chamber is not a shopkeeper, it is the representation of all Spaniards. I am sure there must already be enough photos, so please remove the T-shirts, because you have to have respect for the institution and this Chamber. [[Applauds]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and the Environment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u149	Thank you, President. Your Honor, as I said in my first speech, the Spanish Government is not competent in the management of mouth water and sanitation services. I also want to remind you that water is a public good because it is so established in the Water Act. You come late to claim what is already of all Spaniards; the provision of service is in any case public. Your Honor, the Criminal Prosecution Act requires that the prosecution be immediately informed of the facts that may constitute public offences. What you should do is what the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and Environment has done, which is to bring to the attention of the prosecutor's office the facts that could constitute a crime. We've done it four times. The law obliges us all - you too - and if you have any doubts about the legality of any action, what you should do is to address the prosecution rather than try to sow widespread doubts by accusing everyone and anyone. Since almost the beginning of the 10th Legislature, the Ministry has issued procurement instructions to water companies that are almost equivalent to the recruitment regime of state companies, i.e. a system similar to that set out in the Contracts Act, which goes far beyond guarantees and control of what is required by law. When this minister became aware of the alleged criminal irregularities of the public enterprise to which she referred, immediate instructions were given to start acting, both to clarify what happened with the utmost respect for judicial proceedings and to prevent such events from being repeated in the future. The Director-General was completely dismissed, the investigating judge was requested to allow the State Advocate to act, and an internal investigation of all recruitment was launched, including those modified and complementary that have been carried out in the Ministry in any of its agencies or companies with large business groups. This is between many performances. We also conducted an audit to find out the status of the entire publication. You have said many things that are not true. First, Minister Arias Cañete did not set up public companies, those companies were already established. Second, most of the contracts under judicial investigation, in addition to those that were complained of, were awarded in periods of government prior to those of the People's Party, fifteen of seventeen works. In any event, it should be noted that the Director-General of the company investigated during the terms of the former ministers Espinosa and Aguilar is included among the persons investigated. I would like to recall that, despite your assertions, there is at present not a single high office of the ministry investigated in this case. That was not his statement. The public officials and the people of the ministry also have respect for their dignity. With regard to the cleaning plants in the Aragonese Pyrenees, the implementation was agreed in 2008 and the agreement stipulated that the Government of Aragon should carry out the works of general interest of the State, while the works of the autonomous community are financed by the State with 142 million euros. The works of the Aragonese Pyrenean sewage treatment plants, for which Aragon is responsible, have not been completed and we have contacted the Government of Aragon to come up with a short-term solution. The ministry has indeed made an important effort during the hard years that it has been for us to live by maintaining the financial contributions, exercise to exercise, until in 2016 complete all the little more than 142 million euros committed, allowing the works of the autonomous community to be executed. Of course, the water bodies have a responsibility to ensure the quality of our rivers' waters and are aware and aware of the situation of the water treatment plants in the Aragonese Pyrenees, which they take into account but which in no case should distract them from ensuring the water quality of our rivers. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that when we arrived at the Government's water policy, in particular with regard to sanitation and purification, we were in a situation of complete abandonment. Improving the quality of water has been a priority for this Government, as I have shown throughout my intervention, and it will continue to be, because we will continue to work for the quality of life of citizens. I insist, do not be arrogant what is already of everyone, water is a public good, you are not inventing anything, it is so established in the Water Law, and so is the provision of services, although, on the other hand, I am very aware that it will not be I who intends to teach you to confuse citizens with language. I hope that the priority of ensuring better, more transparent, more rigorous, more consensual management of water will be shared by you and your political party, leaving aside political ideologies and confrontation and, above all, seeking the best for Spain and the Spanish. This will always be the position of the Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-03-22-CD170322.u150	Thank you very much. The meeting rose. It was eleven and fifty minutes in the morning.
