ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, this Presidency submits to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to the effect that the urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas, on the agenda as item 27, is finally discussed in the section on interpellations. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u2	We now begin, ladies and gentlemen, with the debate to take into account the proposed law of the Madrid Assembly, for the amendment of the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime, in order to guarantee the right of all persons with organic disabilities to vote. That is why we are joined by three representatives of the Madrid Assembly who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom I welcome on behalf of the House, as well as the President of the Assembly and the members of the Madrid Assembly who are in the rostrum. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Beatriz Gimeno Reinoso.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u3	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me first say in these five minutes that it is an immense joy that this law that we have brought from the Madrid Assembly is a law of extension of rights. Lately we do not have the opportunity to hold this celebration often, but quite the contrary, so it is a joy to participate in what is ultimately to do justice to a sector of citizenship that is experiencing constant discrimination and exclusion. That we have at this point that we are ratifying the right of these people to vote demonstrates the desire to deal with matters relating to functional diversity, the lack of political will, the prejudices that remain active, which makes it difficult to change mindsets from an approach anchored in the handicap to a paradigm of functional diversity or different capacities. In any case, this law, which is the result of the struggle of many years - as always - of disability associations, will end, when passed, in a situation of violation of human rights and civil rights. In addition, the adoption of this law was legally unspeakable. The deprivation of the right to vote of these people has been at all times violating international laws and treaties, especially the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified by Spain in 2008 and which has been a part of our domestic law since this date, a convention to which we know very well that a minimum part is being fulfilled. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u4	Silence, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u5	In spite of this, that this law is legally, from our point of view, unspeakable, the People's Party did everything possible in the Madrid assembly to decafeinate it with its amendments and we assume that here it will try to delay it as much as possible; finally it had to vote yes and we suppose that it will defend this vote here today. The People's Party is characterized by systematically opposing any extension of rights and finally placing them on the banner. On the other hand, the European Economic and Social Committee has said many times that persons with disabilities cannot be deprived of this right and that they can only be conditioned in a general way by age and citizenship. In addition, the committee stated in very explicit wood that persons with disabilities could not be deprived of this right either by a judgement of a court or in any other way. However, in all these years in Spain almost a hundred thousand people have been arbitrarily deprived of this right and for no other reason than prejudice. If that were not enough, we have been allowing judges to make a sort of examination of these people, an examination to which they do not submit any other person, to exercise a personal and inalienable right such as the right to vote. No citizen of this country is required to explain with what independence he or she votes, with what knowledge, with what understanding, does not even need to be able to vote, as it is logical, to know how to read or write, because, as we know, the right to vote is a personal and inalienable right. However, judges have been subjecting people with intellectual functional diversity to this kind of examination. In short, this law seeks to restore a right to which these persons should never have been deprived. We believe that the right to vote is not guaranteed in this country by means of accessibility or cognitive accessibility and, therefore, for it to be a reality, there is a long way to go. Let us hope that other issues can be incorporated into the process of this law that ensure that not only the right to vote but also the right to political participation are a reality for people, for all people, for all citizens of this country. I would like to conclude by saying, Members and Members, that I believe that discrimination on the basis of functional diversity, although it is often not thought that way, is one of the most widespread discriminations, is one of the deepest and one of the most difficult to combat. This is because it apparently does not respond to a speech of hatred, which hinders its politicization. We usually have little room to politicize it and plenty of space to sympathize with it and try to treat it as a disease. Disability therefore requires that we continue to work on the construction of a political discourse that removes it from the discourse of disability. The change we want, that we need people with disabilities, is a legal change, is a political change and is a cultural change. Today we are beginning a political change and a legal change that will be real when it is adopted; a change that will be very important and that will certainly help to bring about the necessary cultural change; a step that will really help ensure the rights of all persons with disabilities; a step in any case in the recognition of the equality and dignity of our fellow citizens and our fellow citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u6	Many thanks to Mrs. Beatriz Gimeno Reinoso. You now have the floor of Mrs Mónica Silvana González González. [[Rumors]] I beg you, ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u7	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Why are we interested in these issues from the regional parliaments? Why are we interested in intellectual disability since the Madrid Assembly? The Socialist Group in the Madrid Assembly is here to defend this measure which has to do with extending rights, which has to do with the democratic regeneration that this country needs. People with disabilities living in the European Union and in our country want to participate in politics; they are more interested in politics than the average of the general population. The right to cast a vote is a public right of a basic and political nature that can be demanded in any social and democratic State. This is what the United Nations Convention, which was ratified by Spain in 2008, states, but far from being a reality in Spain, there are still more than 100,000 people waiting to vote. The Socialist Group echoes the cry of the social movement of disability, reflected in a historic claim by Cermi, and I am grateful for the presence of the Cermi, Cermi State, Full Inclusion, Confederation of Mental Health, Autism and Down Spain, who are accompanying us today in the guest gallery, as well as for the presence of the comrades of the Socialist Group of the Madrid Assembly and the president of the Assembly, who are accompanying us in the guest stand. [[Applauds]] We regional parliaments are also trying to speed up and find agreements on an issue that affects, as I said, more than a hundred thousand people who were unable to vote in the last elections. In Madrid, for example, nearly 12,000 people have not been able to participate. We are just a few days away from the upcoming elections in Catalonia, on that famous 21st of December, and there more than 15,000 people will not be able to exercise their right to decide. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, it is in your hands now to do so quickly, to address this issue in a timely manner and to put an end to the discrimination of Mara, Nerea and many other people in relation to whom it is the judges who decide, the judges or their families. We do not want to put a coma in the reform of the Loreg, of the Electoral Law, and to continue to leave the decision to the judges or the families - the People's Group has amended it in the Assembly - we want to delete - and I say eliminate - points (b) and (c) of Article 3 of the Electoral Law to allow the full right to vote. Mara's mother said it very well at the doors of the Constitutional Court when she said: What politicians have to do is legislate and not come to the demonstrations to take the photos. We have practiced this in Madrid and that is why we are bringing this demand to this Parliament. With our differences, the groups have been able to agree and we come to this Parliament, as the Madrid Assembly, to defend it. We are no longer in the next Catalan elections, but we are in time to remedy this right for the next municipal, regional and autonomous elections. Ladies and gentlemen, this right is being realized in you. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u8	Many thanks to Mónica Silvana González González. I give the floor to Mr Alfonso Serrano Sánchez-Capuchino.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President of the Madrid Assembly and colleagues, it is an honour for me to rise to this rostrum on behalf of the Madrid Assembly to defend the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Electoral Law to guarantee the right to vote for persons with disabilities. I do not want to reiterate the arguments put forward by my fellow delegations, so I will focus on other issues. First of all - yes - let me acknowledge the work of the entire disability sector - some of us are here today - which has been working for years to improve people's lives and especially the recognition of their rights. Secondly, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, as our Constitution recognizes, that in Spain the right to vote is universal, that persons with disabilities have the right to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain people with disabilities vote. What we are talking about here today is people with intellectual disabilities or mental illness whose right has been restricted by a judge, and it is in these cases, ladies and gentlemen, that it is untenable to generalize such procedures. We must look for ways to reverse the thousands of cases that exist in Spain. In a democracy, ladies and gentlemen, the restriction of the right to vote must be highly assessed, exceptional and clearly justified. In the Madrid Assembly, the People's Group, chaired by Cristina Cifuentes, said that it would come to this House to record a clear, clear and fully committed position, and here we are, ladies and gentlemen. Let us do justice to these people and recognize their rights so that their exercise can be effective. We understand that there are doubts. Is it feasible to make one hundred thousand court sentences disappear by reforming an article of the Electoral Law? What is more reasonable, to look for mechanisms that guarantee exceptionality or, on the contrary, to generalize this measure without taking into account other conditions? Are other legal reforms necessary, beyond the timely touch of the Electoral Law, to guarantee something that we can all agree on? They are reasonable doubts, ladies and gentlemen, yes, and there are implementation difficulties, but they are doubts and salvable difficulties if your ladies and gentlemen have the political will to deal with them. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we urge you to vote in favour of the inclusion and to address a debate that is already years late, to address the difficulties involved and so we can put an end to this injustice. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that this capacity to urge the Congress of Deputies from an autonomous parliament is designed to discuss matters of national competence which expressly affect an autonomous community. The amendment of the Electoral Law may not be an example of this, especially when this particular matter is already part of the work plan that your ladies and gentlemen have given themselves in the subcommittee created for this purpose to review our electoral system. But time has given reason to my fellow delegations - we must recognise it and I recognize it - and we are here before what we all thought, even before your ladies and gentlemen address this issue in that subcommittee. That is why I would like this consideration to be seen by Congress as an acquittal to its work, as a call to action, so that in that subcommission - if you think so - this has a priority character. It is not a question of placing more emphasis on social matters than on legal matters or vice versa, ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of democratic quality and also of social justice. It is deserved by those who have been working for people with disabilities for years and, above all, by these people themselves. They deserve your attention and support, but they also deserve to work with the responsibility, seriousness and rigour that characterizes this House. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we have asked you from the Madrid Assembly to vote in favour of the consideration. I conclude, Madam President. Let me finish with a plea and a thank you to your ladies and gentlemen. I ask you that no partisan or short-term vision take them away from a maximum that electoral experts to whom I know this House values and respects - as are my colleague, Mr Vera, or Mr Bermúdez de Castro - always repeat: The rules of the game are changed by consensus. It is much better a law of electoral reform gradually but by consensus than the best of the laws imposed by a majority, be this majority of government or opposition. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, I do not do this as a Member or delegate of the Madrid Assembly, I do this as a Madrid citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for being able to live up to the exceptional moment that Spain is experiencing. The Madrid Assembly is the home of the people of Madrid, but it is the Courts that represent us all as Spanish citizens and allow us to remain under the umbrella of a modern democracy, exercising our rights in full freedom, with respect for our legal framework and our Constitution. So as a citizen, as a father, as a husband, but especially as a Madrider, I tell you that I have felt and am proud of my representatives in this House, my Government and our Crown. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u10	Many thanks to Don Alfonso Serrano SánchezCapuchino. At the time of fixing positions, I have the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. With the greeting, on behalf of the Forum, to the Madrid Assembly, represented here this afternoon, in the forum of the Congress, by the three deputies who have defended the initiative and by the President of the Assembly, and with the greeting to the representatives of the institutions and civic entities who accompany us in the forum of guests, I intervene to support the amendment of the Organic Law 5/1985, of 19 June, of the General Electoral Regime, to guarantee the right of suffrage of all people with functional diversity - around one hundred thousand in Spain - in order to have equal conditions to exercise their political and public participation. This amendment addresses one of the great demands of these disabled people to match them with the rest of the citizens and to avoid the limitations on participation they currently have. It therefore seeks to correct a democratically imperfect and anomalous situation, in addition to the need to assume Spain's commitment to the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which unequivocally reflects that no person, for reasons associated with his or her disability, may be deprived of the right to vote. The Congress of Deputies is already taking initiatives, such as those registered by the members of the Navarro People's Union, to promote these legislative changes and what is appropriate is to give them agility, because these limitations, far from being presentable, go further and further, affect more and more people, as the President of the Cermi rightly warned a year ago when he appeared before the Commission for the Integral Policies of Disability, exhibiting data from the Central Electoral Board and the Electoral Census Office on the deprivation of vote. We are going to support the proposals that are already being dealt with in the General Courts and also the one we are being urged to do so from the Madrid Assembly, but it needs the utmost urgency, because the rules and articles that restrict such a fundamental, personal and indelible right for voting must disappear as soon as possible. There can be no pretext for dealing with this necessary legislative reform with the utmost diligence, which will in all likelihood be accompanied by a high degree of agreement. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u12	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Alli Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the social, Cermi, of the full inclusion, Down syndrome Spain, parliamentarians of the Madrid Assembly - I also greet your President - I would like to apologize - and I humbly say this - because I would have liked this House today to be filled by all Members on a matter as relevant as the one we are dealing with, a matter as basic as the right to vote for all persons with disabilities who in Spain have that sentence of judicial incapacity. I would also like to apologize as a politician for these thirty-two years of delay since the already mentioned Loreg of 1985. Therefore, as a citizen of a democratic society such as Spain, as a father and as a politician, I will definitely vote yes, to this proposal for a law presented to us today by the Madrid Assembly. The two seats of the Navarro People's Union will vote a strong yes to the consideration of this bill, so that all persons with disabilities exercise the right to universal suffrage, because having a right and not being able to exercise it is like a civilian death and this country cannot allow it. I would also like to highlight the work - I say this with all humility - that has been done by the Navarro People's Union with these two seats in the Joint Parliamentary Group, at the bottom of this Chamber, which managed to unite all political forces so that the Commission on the Integral Policies of Persons with Disabilities in Spain in this Congress would have legislative rank. We also registered this initiative in February. Finally, I would like to thank the President of the Cermi, Luis Cayo, and Jesús Martín, the director responsible for the Cermi Human Rights Convention, for inviting me to participate in the Cermi Support Committee to ensure the human rights of persons with disabilities. Thank you so much. Go on with that job.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u14	Thank you very much. Also for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Bataller i Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of Compromís, I would like to thank the Madrid Assembly and the people who have represented it here and now in this Chamber for the sensitivity they have shown in bringing to this House the proposal for a law that we have been debating, which, as has already been shown, is in fact complying with an act of due justice. We share all the arguments that have been put forward in the explanatory statement of this proposal, especially the reflection that is read between the lines in the recommendations that follow from the review carried out by the United Nations Committee on Persons with Disabilities regarding the excessive scope of judicial arbitration on such a sensitive issue as to affect the restriction of individual rights, such as that of the participation in politics of persons with disabilities, because indeed the system that designs our Constitution is based on the division of powers, but not on an absolute separation between them, but on the pre-eminence of the Legislature, which places and removes the Executive, and also on the realization of the principle of legality, which sets guidelines for judicial action, which must be consistent with the interpretation and application of the law, but not with the elaboration of creative justice that can become restrictive in matters that are so important for the integration of persons. I understand that this proposal is intended to fulfil the mandate contained in Article 1(2) of the Constitution, which obliges the public authorities to remove all the difficulties for the full deployment of freedom and equality of individuals and to facilitate their participation in all the orders of life, including the politician. It is possible that, after consideration of this proposal for a law, other legal texts, such as the Civil Prosecution Act, will have to be reformed, which we will address during the period of amendments. We hope that with the vote of Compromises and seeing the atmosphere in this House this proposal will come forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u16	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u17	We welcome the representatives of the Madrid Assembly, who bring to the plenary an initiative that strengthens the civil and political rights of all citizens, especially of persons with disabilities, but, if I may and inevitably, if we talk about civil and political rights we have to keep in mind Catalan political prisoners, from sadness and indignation, for the unfair and abusive application of provisional detention to innocent people. [[Rumors]] In our heart and for their freedom: Oriol Junqueras, Josep Rull, Meritxell Borràs, Jordi Turull, Joaquim Forn, Carles Mundó, Raül Romeva, Dolors Bassa, Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sànchez. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] I would also like to thank the presence of Cermi and the world of disability. Ladies and gentlemen, the convention at the time was a real revolution in the conception of disability policies in the Spanish State. Perhaps at the time he was not sufficiently aware of what the convention entailed, from a paternalistic conception of the protection of persons with disabilities to a conception based on the recognition of the full capacity to decide of all persons, giving them the power to decide. That change introduced by the convention in 2008 has not been fully developed in our legislation and this initiative has the virtue of placing it in that field, of correcting one of the many dysfunctions that our legislation has in this area. This presents a challenge in legal terms - perhaps the parliamentary process of partial amendments will have to improve the legal quality of the rule - and in terms of public policy. Legislation that puts at the centre of its eyes the ability to decide of individuals needs supportive policies to make that independent life possible, and there, ladies and gentlemen, there is a huge challenge on the part of the public authorities, the competent administrations and civil society. In any case, there we will be, in the parliamentary process, to work. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u18	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u19	Thank you very much, President. The Madrid Assembly presents us with a legislative initiative to amend the Loreg to delete paragraphs 1 (b) and (c) of Article 3, which prevent the active suffrage of those declared incapable by a final court ruling and of those admitted to psychiatric hospital with judicial authorization, provided that the judge declares the incapacity for the exercise of the right to vote. The Madrid Assembly also proposes the addition of an additional provision whereby, following the entry into force of the repeal of the abovementioned paragraphs, all judicial decisions limiting the right to vote to intellectual disabled persons by virtue of the application of those provisions now repealed shall be void. Such a proposal by the Madrid Assembly is based on the violation which, in its view, results from these provisions of the Loreg, of the International Convention on the Rights of the Disabled and its Protocol, ratified by Spain in 2008, which promote the right to equality of these persons in the enjoyment of all their human and fundamental rights, including those of full participation in society and, in particular, that of equal suffrage as the highest expression of political and public participation, a violation which has already been demonstrated by the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Intellectual Disabilities in the review, which submitted to Spain in 2011, on the right to vote under article 29 of the Convention, when it expressed its concern that in Spain it was the rule and not the exception to the deprivation of the right to vote to persons with intellectual and psychosocial disabilities simultaneously by being deprived of their legal capacity, and that this was done - the Committee regretted - without having knowledge or the criteria applied by the judges to deprive them of the right to vote or of the evidence to determine the criteria for their application. This is the state of affairs that the Madrid Assembly puts on the table to support the amendment of the Loreg regarding the deprivation of the vote of the intellectual disabled, a problem which in the subcommittee for the amendment of the Loreg, constituted in this House within the Constitutional Commission, has been agreed its study, which is why the Basque Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of taking into consideration this proposed law of the Madrid Assembly, for the purpose of its study and evaluation within the work carried out in the aforementioned subcommittee for the reform of the Loreg. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the situation of intellectual disabilities in Spain deprived of their right to vote reaches, according to the data provided to the prosecution in 2011 by the Central Electoral Board, 80 000 people, the vast majority of the cases declared in a quasi-automatic manner by including in almost all the processes of incapacity the following order: to communicate the sentence of incapacity to the electoral census for the consequent deprivation of the right to vote. Today, in cases where a person is subjected during his or her civil incapacitation process to tests to determine whether his or her right to vote should be deprived of his or her right to vote, such evidence or evidence is not guaranteed or is not individualized, and in this regard the UN Committee has shown that the subjection of persons with intellectual disabilities to a review, in relation to their knowledge of the political and electoral system, does not imply putting in place the precise means to ensure that persons with disabilities can participate fully and effectively in political and public life on equal terms, but, quite the contrary, implies the imposition of one more obstacle: the requirement of one plus with respect to the other persons with the right to vote to whom such knowledge is required. I would even like to highlight the paradoxes that the Loreg does not prevent the right to vote for people who do not know how to read or write, nor does it prevent a disabled person from presenting as eligible without passing any exam, but it does prevent him from voting without passing an exam. Ladies and gentlemen, the inability to vote would have to be serious and demonstrated before they could curtail their rights as citizens. The impossibility of the right to vote should be the exception and not the rule that affects people in these circumstances, and the judge should make in every incapacitation a tailor-made suit without incapacitation, as happens in most cases, in a total way, since this implies the civilian death of the person, especially when recent investigations of elderly people with Down syndrome from new generations, who have generally received much more support and stimulation, show that they can understand in broad ways the differences that mark political formations in matters of interest to them. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a vulnerable group, a group which, as the European Court of Human Rights points out, along with others such as asylum seekers or people with HIV, has been prejudiced with long-term consequences that have led to their social exclusion. If they are to apply a restriction of their fundamental rights, the State's discretion is substantially narrower and must have substantial reasons for the restrictions in question. These compelling reasons for depriving these persons with disabilities of the right to vote are those which we are obliged to consider in this House, through the articulation of a guaranteed and individualized process, on the autonomous political decision-making capacity of these persons to give effect not only to their right to equality before the law, but also to their right to participate in political life and to comply with several articles of the 2006 UN Convention, which entails the revision of the articles of the Loreg, whose margin of appreciation has given rise to inappropriate automatisms or assessments on the capacity of intellectual disabled persons for participation in political and public life. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen; thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u20	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Clemente Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u21	Madam President, citizens have the right to participate in public affairs, directly or through freely elected representatives in periodic elections by universal suffrage. Article 23.1 of the Spanish Constitution. Here I could almost finish my argument to lay down a position on this initiative. I could also quote from them article 14, which proclaims equality before the law of all Spanish and Spanish, or from article 49, which obliges us to guarantee what is called for in this initiative, that it is no more or less necessary to ensure the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms for all persons with disabilities, guaranteeing full and effective participation in society, so that the exercise of the right to vote on equal terms implies the maximum expression of political participation by members of a democratic society. This is reflected, for example, in article 29 of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which I will quote again, since both the explanatory statement and the previous speakers have made this clear. In short, it speaks of participation in political and public life and calls on the State to guarantee the right to vote on equal terms for all persons with disabilities, including other forms of political and public participation. This is what we have all committed ourselves to in the Madrid Community, and we must now ratify it throughout the State. The signing of this Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u22	Silence, ladies and gentlemen, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u23	... has turned ten, by the way, ten years of a forgetfulness of the various political parties that have had the opportunity to rule in this country, ladies and gentlemen, ten years of sometimes manifest injustice with persons with disabilities. We must reform the Organic Electoral Regime Act so that those persons who do not appear in the electoral censuses can vote. It is precisely because these people have the right to do so, they have the right to participate, and today in the Congress of Deputies we decide their future so that they can dream of participating in it by choosing their representatives. Let us not fail them, please, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] We have received this request from all political groups. Here I see representatives of Cermi and associations such as Full Inclusion or Autism Spain. [[Addressing the public gallery]] It is clear that during these ten years we have been reminded of the different public representatives in the different chambers of representation throughout the State, that persons with disabilities had the right to participate, had the right to be themselves, had the right to express their views and of course had the right to vote. Point. So easy and simple. Let's not make it complicated for us, ladies and gentlemen. In the Citizens' Parliamentary Group - just a few months ago, when we approached the reform of the Loreg - we already included a small shade in this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow these people to remain segregated and excluded to participate, among other things, in all the elections of other citizens, nor can we afford to continue to consider them incapable of participating fully as other citizens. There are two cases, by virtue of a sentence for incapacity and by virtue of a person hospitalized with a psychiatric diagnosis, which do not appear in the electoral census; there are almost 100,000 Spaniards without the right to vote, the highest figure between 2000 and 2015; honestly, it is very high. Ladies and gentlemen, the protection of the rights of these people is essential if they are to live in full inclusion, as was recalled last International Day of Persons with Disabilities by persons with intellectual disabilities who have filled numerous fulls in other chambers of representation. And they told us that they wanted to participate on equal terms in all electoral processes. Injustice, disregard, laziness, forgetfulness cannot be the ally to forget these people; the participation of these people cannot be in question. In conclusion, I would like to say - and in the Minister's speech this morning we have said this - that thanks to the Madrid Assembly there should be no ideology in this initiative. This initiative is not of the Socialist Party, it is not of the United We can, it is not of Citizens, it is not of the People's Party, of the PNV or of the Joint Group. I humbly hope that there will not be a great consensus on this issue, but I hope for unanimity; I would like to see once and for all that we are doing disability policy and not doing disability policy. Before I say goodbye, I would like to thank my colleague from the Madrid Assembly and Senator Tomás Marcos. It's a pleasure to work with you and every day I learn from you. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u24	Thank you very much. Mrs Arévalo has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. [[Rumors]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u25	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today I rise to this rostrum happy; glad that at last functional diversity is hollow in the political agenda and thus acquires the relevance it deserves; glad that today we can advance in the conquest of the rights of people with different capacities. The right to vote represents the highest expression of political participation in a democratic society; however, the current Electoral Law restricts this fundamental right in our country to almost 100,000 people. There will be people who do not know why 100 000 people in Spain are not allowed to vote. Well, the reason is because these people have different abilities and, depending on this, they often request a change in their legal capacity, above all, to protect their heritage. And what happens when your legal capacity is changed? Since, almost systematically, they are deprived of their right to vote, that is, a measure such as the modification of the legal capacity to act, which is supposedly a protection measure, automatically becomes a measure of discrimination. [[The Rumors Continue]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, if it really is discriminatory that there are people in Spain today with the same situation...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u26	One moment, Mrs. Arévalo, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. There is a rumor that besides tiring the speaker makes it impossible to hear him. Go on, Mrs. Arevalo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u27	Thank you, President. He told them to see whether it is really discriminatory that in Spain today there are people with the same biophysical situation who, depending on whether or not they have requested a change in their legal capacity, have the right to vote or not. It is more - this is indeed a paradox -, today in our country, for example, there are people with Down syndrome who are councillors, but - here comes the paradox - they have not been able to be voted by people with Down syndrome. Can anyone give a reasonable explanation for this? There isn't, the only reason - it's pretty embarrassing - is that this happens based on the prejudices that still exist around people who have different abilities. These are the reasons why the social movement of functional diversity has been mobilizing and exerting popular pressure for years so that all the people to whom the vote has been taken can regain it. I would like to take this moment to greet those who here today represent that associative movement. Thank you, thank you for making us even clearer that popular pressure is fundamental to change things. [[Addressing the public gallery.-Applause]] But not only has the associative movement of persons with functional diversity pushed for the amendment of the Electoral Law; moreover, at the international level, the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations has given us its colourful face, showing its concern at the fact that the number of persons with functional diversity to whom the right to vote is restricted in our country does not only diminish, but it does not cease to grow. I will give you some data: in 2000 there were about 13,000 people with different capacities deprived of the right to vote and in 2015 there were already almost 100,000. That is why the committee in 2011, six years ago, drafted a report recommending changing our laws to ensure compliance with article 29 of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which states that all persons with functional diversity have the right to vote. I remind the Government of the People's Party that this convention is an international treaty that Spain has ratified and that, therefore, we must comply with it, or in this case, does it not matter if we are drawn to our attention and our faces are colored? My parliamentary group, of course, as it could not be otherwise, will vote yes to take this bill into consideration, but I would like to remind your ladies and gentlemen that this issue could already be a reality because we have already discussed it in Congress. Just a year ago we tabled amendments on this issue which, as in this case the Socialist Group has done in the Madrid Assembly, respected the literality of the proposal that the social movement of functional diversity had transferred us to all political groups. Well, the Socialist Party did not support these amendments. We, naive, who were barely here for a moment, believed that the Socialist Party would support us, since they had already promoted this initiative in the Madrid Assembly. But no; it was a bad time; they were about to make Mr Rajoy president and they did not want to disturb the preparations for that grotesque agreement. By the way, Mr Alli and Citizens also voted against our amendments. It does not matter, we do not care because we do not all act in the same way, because we, ladies and gentlemen, do not care who drives the initiatives, but for what and for who. Today again we have an opportunity to correct this democratic deficit and allow almost 100 000 people to regain their right to vote, and that is all we care about. By the way, this reform could also have come sooner if Minister Montserrat had kept her word. When this issue jumped into the media earlier this year, he undertook to reform the Electoral Law so that all persons with functional diversity could vote. Well, it's been ten months since those statements. In ten months' time the minister hasn't found a niche to take care of this? We actually take care of it, because Minister Montserrat is now very busy with demonstration in manifestation, and it is normal for those who are not used to exercising their right to manifest to be organized. [[Applauds]] In fact, we are pleased that it was not the minister who promoted the reform, because if we look at her statements, what she proposes is a Gatopardian reform. I would like to explain myself, and to do so I will quote Mrs Montserrat: We must establish a criterion of interpretation of her competence in order to be voters. I translate it: The People's Party, through the words of the minister but also in the amendments they put forward in the Madrid Assembly, aims to eliminate discrimination by maintaining a discriminatory mechanism. What do I mean? Today, people with different capacities who resort to the courts to regain their right to vote are given a political knowledge test to determine whether they have the right to vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, why are people with functional diversity examined in relation to this issue? I will repeat something I have already said: Because there are still prejudices about people with different abilities. If the reform proposed by the social movement for diversity is approved, and I hope it is in the Committee on Integral Disability Policies, and if it is approved in accordance with its literality, it will still not be all done. If equality in the right to vote is really to be guaranteed, it is necessary to comply with the law and to make universal accessibility possible also in this matter. By the way, the Government is in a bit of a hurry here because the legal deadline ends on 4 December. It seems that law enforcement is not always a fundamental requirement. We believe that the country cannot be defended by restricting rights and that we must therefore urgently reform the Electoral Law, so that all people, regardless of their abilities, legal status or place of residence, can vote and participate politically on an equal footing. We do not want a homeland where there is a first citizenship and a second citizenship - our homeland is a diverse, but equal one - we want an inclusive homeland where people with functional diversity can have an independent life. We want a dignified homeland that takes care of and protects the rights of all. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u28	Mr Ruiz i Carbonell has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u29	Thank you, Madam President. How many times have we talked about it, right?But at last today we begin the final stage of the path that will give or restore the stolen dignity to a part that you and we represent and help you to be first-rate citizens. You can be proud, of all you will have succeeded, we will have succeeded, to eradicate this vestige of discrimination and exclusion; I hope that when December 21st is to vote, it will be the last time there are about 2000 people from Tarragona - about 1800 - who cannot do so. I will do so in an electoral college with accessibility difficulties, and it is that we have much to do, despite the fact that the deadline that we have given ourselves to make everything accessible ends on December 4, the deadline that we will not reach with the duties done and that has led Cermi to denounce the lack of accessibility. This month's campaign on cultural and sports spaces, isn't it? Of course, the Socialists will vote in favour of this consideration for reasons of law, justice and all kinds. We will do so because it is an initiative of the Socialist Group of the Madrid Community, and I would like to acknowledge its sensitivity to the world of disability. We will do so because defending the weakest sectors of society is part of our raison d'être, as reflected in our work of government, when we promote the Law of Dependence or the secret vote of blind people by voting in Braille, for giving a couple of examples. We will do so because it was part of the program with which we are running for election; also because our candidate for president at the truncated investiture session, Pedro Sánchez, announced it as part of his government program and because the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights or the 1966 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights recognize the right to vote on a general basis. We will do so because, in addition, we ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2008, which in its article 29 states that all persons with disabilities must be able to vote on an equal footing. We will do so because we want to eliminate the anomaly, overcome the contradiction between the principle of equality before the law enshrined in article 14 of the Constitution and what the Organic Law on General Electoral Regime says, which specifies the cases in which the citizens of our country may be deprived of their right to vote on disability-related grounds, and because we want those who have lost the right to vote to recover it. We must not suppress or replace the will of people, but support them or, as is now said, empower them. We are also going to do so because at the 62nd session of the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, on 23 September 2011, speaking of Spain, our country was told that the Committee was concerned that the right to vote of persons with intellectual or psychosocial disabilities could be restricted and that the deprivation of that right seemed to be the rule and not the exception, leading to a 659 per cent increase in the last 15 years from 12,709 persons deprived of a vote to 96,418. The Committee regretted the lack of information on the rules, grounds and criteria applied by judges to deprive persons of the right to vote by recommending that we review our legislation so that all persons with disabilities, regardless of their disability, legal status or place of residence, have the right to vote and to participate in public life on an equal basis with others. Six years have passed since 23 September 2011 and six years will come to an end from the first meeting of the Council of Ministers chaired by Mariano Rajoy, who started a phase of cuts and forgetfulness like this one today; I forget that we have reminded them on some occasion, as on 23 October 2013, four years ago by the socialist Ramón Jáuregui in a debate in the Constitutional Commission that ended up adopting an initiative - I think it was Jordi Jané's - which said: To urge the Government to draw up in six months a report with proposals for the regulatory adaptation of Spanish legislation to the forecasts contained in the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, including those affecting the current electoral law. It has not been six months since then; it has been eight times six months. In addition, we will vote in favour of it on the recommendation of the Ombudsman of 30 June 2016 to reform Loreg to comply with the recommendation of the United Nations Committee that I have just mentioned. And we will also do so because in its day we recorded the request for the creation of a subcommission to reform the Electoral Law to, among other things, effectively enable the voting of persons with disabilities who cannot do so today. I could keep giving reasons, but I won't. I will end by giving them the fundamental reason why we will vote in favour and which can be illustrated by what happened to me a few months ago, as I explained on a day organized by the Socialist Group of the Madrid Assembly, and which perhaps will remind Silvana and Luis Cayo. I have a friend, the Sergi, who goes in a wheelchair and makes castles - yes, yes, castles -; they help him to climb on top of the pineapple and he is the one who, on his shoulders, endures a pillar. On top of it stands another castler and on top of another. I explained to him, while we were taking a refreshment, the procedure that had to be followed for an initiative like this to be approved, and then he asked me why we were presenting it; and I, very manually, told him that we were trying to move forward in a society in which we all had and could exercise the same rights. I wonder what for. I answered him and he asked again and asked again, until in the end I ended him saying, as I sometimes finish this kind of conversation, a phrase that I claim and that I think we should use more because, however much we do, it does not cease to make sense. He ends up saying, 'Cause we all have the same right to be happy. And the Sergi, the castler of Tarragona who goes in a wheelchair, threw a drink, smiled and no longer asked me. That is the fundamental reason why the Socialist Group defended it in the Madrid Assembly and brings it here today, so that the Socialists of Congress will vote for it and we will do everything possible to ensure that it is dealt with as soon as possible, so that in our country we can all have the opportunity to exercise all our rights, the first of which is to have the opportunity to be happy. As we say in Catalan: This is our compromise, this is our commitment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u30	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tremiño Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u31	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you about Angela Bachiller, councillor of Valladolid City Hall in the previous legislature by the People's Party, councillor with Down syndrome, and who was invited by the European Commission to the World Forum which organizes every year on the implementation of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. She was defending what she had fought and worked for to be considered as a person with capacity, not as a person with disabilities, and she was fighting and working to be considered and to be on the lists of a political party, certainly on the lists of the People's Party, not because of her disability, but because of her capacity. But Angela, above all, with the utmost clarity, security and conviction, talked about her political arguments to be on the People's Party lists; a person with Down syndrome, a person with disabilities. I love, by the way, that Mrs Arévalo has spoken about it and that Mrs Gimeno has listened to it, because it turns out that Angela Bachiller was the first intellectually disabled councillor on a list of the People's Party. As always, the People's Party was the first party to trust people with disabilities for a list. [[Applauds]] With deeds, not speeches; with deeds. [[Applauds]] The People's Party does not put itself behind any banner, it works day by day with people with disabilities and for people with disabilities, without having to go behind the banners, that's the difference. And it is told by a person who was the first wheelchair councillor twenty years ago, also of the People's Party, dear Mrs Gimeno. By the way, to Mrs Arévalo, who says, with good judgment, that we must strictly comply with the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities because it scares her - and she is right - to draw our attention, I say to her: you comply with the convention and stop calling me a different functional; I am not a different functional person, I am a person with disabilities, as the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities says. [[Applauds]] It complies with the convention and calls for persons with disabilities not persons with functional diversity. I am not and will not die being diverse functional; I am, as the law says, as the convention says, a person with disabilities. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we should be ashamed of all the Members who are here today... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u32	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u33	I'll speak louder if I have to, President. I got a voice.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u34	One second, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, as I say, we should be ashamed of all the Members who are here today because none of us, when we exercise our right to vote, are required to have an assessment of political knowledge, none of us are being examined. Perhaps, Madam President, we should take a look at all the Members because perhaps we were more than surprised, but today none of us are being examined, no one prejudges the quality of our vote, no one questions the quality of our vote. Ladies and gentlemen, do you not know anyone who has ever voted for the physical beauty of the candidate? Hasn't this ever happened? Don't you know anyone who votes for beauty and not for political convictions? And I'm going to ask you: is that vote, the one that votes for the beauty of the candidate, worth less, worth equal or worth more than the vote of the person who votes for political convictions? Is it worth less or is it worth the same? It's all right, isn't it? I have been told on many occasions: people with disabilities must be protected. Okay, but to protect is not to limit, ladies and gentlemen; to protect is not to restrict; to protect is not to separate the person with disabilities; to protect is not to replace the person with disabilities; to protect is precisely the opposite, to protect the person with disabilities is to support and empower the person with disabilities. We can, we must and we must do so; we can - as another colleague has also said here - establish all the necessary support for the decision-making of the disabled person to be fully free. It is not true, ladies and gentlemen, that legally disabled people lack the natural capacity to decide, let alone. As little as this natural capacity to decide is sufficient to participate also in decisions on collective life without requiring the person with disabilities to have particular knowledge of the political system. The possibility of clear manipulation that is present and the possibility of influence of the vote, but also can be manipulated or influenced by the vote of a person who is not disabled, it is not necessary that he or she has a disability so that he or she can be influenced. That is why we must all work and modulate what we are debating here today so that we can make very clear that there can be no manipulation of the vote or supplantation of the person with disabilities when voting. Ladies and gentlemen, the harm that is caused by the fact that in some case a person without the capacity to decide can vote or a manipulation of the vote, which can occur, is certainly much less than that generated by depriving more than 100,000 people with disabilities who need to be integrated into society as citizens of their own right. Persons with disabilities also have the right to be wrong. As the campaign of full inclusion says: 'My vote counts'. Thank you very much to all the people with disabilities and organizations who are with us today. [[Applauds]] We must take into account, as has also been said here, the Ombudsman's recommendation. The Ombudsman shares the view of the State Prosecutor's Office that the only judicial deprivation of the vote that Loreg should include would have to be only in those cases of complete unconsciousness or absolute lack of knowledge of the person. Only, ladies and gentlemen, should one be deprived of the right to vote when there is direct and conclusive evidence that at the very moment of the vote - this is very important - the person with a disability will be deprived of any reason or sense. Only and exclusively in that case. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is not violated because this circumstance applies to any person, not only persons with disabilities, thus respecting the principle of equality. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that many people do not understand it outside. I'm worried about you inside. Don't be scared and keep your mind open. This is a legal anomaly that we have a legal and moral obligation to adjust and harmonize, as I have said before, the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Our ignorance - and I say mine too - of intellectual disability, mental illness or cognitive deterioration causes certain prejudices to remain on people with some disabilities, which is nothing more than the fruit of bold ignorance. I am now addressing organizations of persons with disabilities. Of course, I also greet - which I have not done before - the members of the Madrid Community Assembly. Dear friends of disability, the People's Party has always been and will be with disability; it will be because today it will also vote in favour of consideration because for us the first thing is people with disabilities. The greatest achievements and legislative advances in disability have been achieved with the governments of the People's Party, and there we will continue to advance together with disability. We will vote in favour of the consideration, but I would like to express a special thanks - of course, to my group, which has given me the opportunity to defend this consideration - to four people: the spokesman, Rafael Hernando; José Antonio Bermúdez de Castro, secretary; Marta González, and Juan Carlos Vera, I want to thank you for being with me with this complicity. I tell you and all your lordships that people with disabilities will not let you down; we trust you. I ask you, all of you, to trust people with disabilities because in this way we will be full citizens of all people with disabilities. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u36	Thank you very much. And we thank the rapporteurs, the President of the Madrid Assembly and all the Members of the Madrid Assembly who are with us.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u37	We continue with the agenda item on the proposal for a law of the People's Parliamentary Group amending Law 42/2007 of 13 December 2007 on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity. Mrs De Lara Carbó has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, invasive alien species are one of the main causes of biodiversity loss in the world, as evidenced by the measures developed under the Convention on Biological Biodiversity and in the strategies and regulations developed by the European Union. In Spain, with its rich biodiversity due to its biogeographical situation, it has been and is a major problem, both biologically and economically. This issue has therefore been addressed both in the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Act and in the Royal Decrees developed by the Government and in the provisions adopted by the Autonomous Communities, which are exclusively responsible for environmental management. Spain has leading legislation in the European Union in this area, which is certainly much more ambitious than the European regulation that develops it. Today, the People's Group is presenting a bill amending the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Act with the sole aim of establishing a regime that will enable effective action to be taken against the serious problem of invasive alien species, while ensuring the peaceful coexistence of hunting and fishing activities, which can be valuable allies in the control or eradication of these species. Our proposal, ladies and gentlemen, is fully aligned with the European Regulation of October 2014 on the prevention and management of the introduction and spread of these species and we intend to encourage the amendment of the articles relating to their prevention and control, taking into account the requirements of this European Regulation. In this respect, the proposal incorporates some input from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Ladies and gentlemen, under no circumstances is the amendment of the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Act that we are presenting today a step backwards in the fight against these species. Those subject to appeal are included in the Spanish catalogue of invasive alien species, as set out in the 2016 Supreme's judgment. The aim of the amendment of the law - I repeat - is to give it some flexibility in order to achieve this necessary balance between the fight against this type of species and the exploitation that is made of them. It merely retrotracts the situation to which it existed before the Supreme's sentence, so that hunting and fishing in all its forms was permitted in the territories where the species included in the catalogue were settled before 2007, where their eradication is, ladies and gentlemen, technically impossible, and strengthens the fight against these species outside those territories, trying to eradicate them in areas where their emergence is earlier and their elimination is sometimes even possible. It is a question, ladies and gentlemen, of seeking solutions that will make the protection of the environment compatible in the way that the Supreme Court's judgment provides for the protection of the activity and employment of the cinegetic and fish sectors, with particular impact on the rural world. Ladies and gentlemen, we intend to work with the autonomous communities and to provide legal coverage to those sectors which, following the Supreme's ruling, which catalogues as alien invaders certain species that are the object of hunting or sport fishing, such as the carp, the lucium, the rainbow trout, the black bass, the red crab and the rust, are in a situation not provided for in the regulations. I would like to highlight, ladies and gentlemen, four aspects of the proposal for a law that we are debating today. First, the amendment we propose to the Law on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity aims, as I said, to make compatible the essential fight against invasive alien species with their exploitation for hunting and fishing in areas where, since they have been occupied since ancient times, their presence does not pose any environmental problems. Secondly, the amendment we are proposing continues to consider that those species for which there is sufficient scientific information - I repeat, for which there is sufficient scientific information - should be catalogued, but in those areas occupied before 2007, when the first regulation in this field took place, all forms of hunting and fishing may be used for their control or eradication. As a mandatory requirement, the areas must be approved in advance by the Autonomous Communities. On the contrary, the exploitation of fishing or hunting as a means of deterring the illegal releases that have continued to occur outside these areas is prohibited. Thirdly, the proposed amendment seeks to regulate in a much clearer way aquaculture activities with listed species, such as rainbow trout, the production of which is largely intended for human consumption, by referring to the regulation of the European Union. It is, ladies and gentlemen, a very important sector for the consumption of fresh fish in Spain, with a production in 2016 of 17,732 tons and a value of 90 million euros. On the other hand, in order to reduce the fishing pressure on the sections with indigenous trout, it will be possible to allow the release of rainbow trout in concrete sections and with full guarantees that their populations will not be able to settle, since only the release of specimens without any reproductive capacity will be allowed, facilitating the development of a sport activity harmless to the environment, of great tradition in Spain and generating important economic benefits in the rural areas where it is practiced, intensive quotas, ladies and gentlemen, which since the publication of the Supreme's sentence have practically disappeared in its entirety, together with the farms that supplied them, leaving to contribute more than 10 million euros in the rural areas in which they were located. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, a paragraph on the alleged hybridization of rainbow trout with native species. They are, as you know, salmonids of different genders to those present in our natural environment and numerous studies show the genetic separation of native and introduced species. After massive releases in the Spanish rivers since 1890, no hybrid, intergeneric and viable population has been found in Spain or throughout Europe, and therefore none of the countries of the European Union has considered rainbow trout as invasive because it is not naturalized or hybridized with natural populations. Ladies and gentlemen, the tent has been in our waters for over 2000 years, and the black bass, pike or crab have been in our waters for over 70 years. Ladies and gentlemen, trying to compare these species with the zebra mussel, the tiger mosquito, the Asian wasp, the apple snail, the chameleon or the plumer of the pampa seems to me ignorance or pure demagogy. Fourth. The amendment we are proposing also specifies that in exceptional cases duly justified by other overriding reasons of public interest, including those of a social or economic nature, the State Commission for Natural Heritage and Biodiversity, in which all autonomous communities are represented, may reconsider the cataloguing of a species or lift some prohibitions affecting a listed species. This possibility, ladies and gentlemen, reflects the spirit of the European regulation, which also allows for the application of a system of derogations. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, eliminating the possibility of hunting and fishing for the abovementioned species, except in the framework of control and eradication campaigns, entails negative economic effects for rural municipalities where these sports, tourism and leisure activities have a major economic impact. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u39	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u40	Difficulties in commercial activities and the introduction of doubts about the regime of some industrial holdings using listed species for food cause uncertainty. Please be aware, ladies and gentlemen, that today there are a total of ninety-three rainbow trout farms and five red crab farms spread across the national territory, so that you can see the magnitude of the problem. For example, ladies and gentlemen, we have the case of the Seville municipality of Isla Mayor, where there are some 250 fishermen of red crab, the sector makes about 20 million euros a year with 85% of its sales oriented to the external market and generates about 200 000 newspapers a year. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot imagine you trying to ban this activity. [[Applauds]] The application of the judgment has resulted in many of the recreational and sports fishing activities traditionally carried out in Spanish inland waters being out of the law and has caused negative socio-economic effects in the rural environment where sport fishing is carried out, especially in those regions where fishing-related tourism is one of their main income. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law seeks to solve a serious social problem but does not undermine the protection of indigenous species and the fight against invasive alien species. Ladies and gentlemen, the changes made by the initiative seek to maintain the activities that have traditionally been carried out without causing any environmental problems, thus contributing to the economy and to job fixing in these areas, most of the time located in depressed rural areas where it has been a very effective alternative to population fixing. The depopulation of the rural world seems to worry all the parliamentary groups, and I say 'appears' because on numerous occasions, ladies and gentlemen, some of you, with your vote, do nothing to prevent it. Ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Parliamentary Group we have always advocated that the cinegetic and fish farming activities carried out in a rational and sustainable way bring considerable benefits not only social and economic, but also environmental and cultural benefits, maintain a high commitment to the conservation of species, have deep roots in our traditions and constitute an economic sector with an important capacity to generate income and employment in thousands of peoples who without them would be condemned to disappear. It is not in vain that one of the most important problems raised by the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and recognized by the Government of Spain is the rural exodus that is suffering more than 4000 villages less than 1000 inhabitants, which, if they do not propose alternatives, will disappear without a remedy. Hunting and fishing bring to these villages a large part of the more than EUR 6 billion generated by both activities. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, that the fishing activity accounts for more than EUR 3 billion per year and that since the application of the judgment there has been the closure of 25% of the establishments related to it, about 60% of the farms, a fall of 50% in sales of fishing materials and more than 70% in nautical materials and boats. More than 75% of international tourism hires in the sector have been cancelled as a result of these tourists moving to other countries. Ladies and gentlemen, we are closing the door to the social and economic growth of the inland tourism sector, which has promoted so much for many autonomous communities for years. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of extreme and demagogic positions in the field of the fight against invasive alien species is meaningless when it is known that the measures taken will seriously harm some groups and the rural world, and yet we know that they will not be effective for the eradication of these species, which have been in our country for centuries or decades and whose eradication is technically impossible. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, and I do so by calling on all parliamentary groups to vote in favour of the proposed law. There are thousands of Spanish families in the rural world who are waiting today for the vote that will take place at the end of the plenary session. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, not to let them down. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u41	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. In mid-June I already expressed on behalf of the Forum my support for the consideration of a non-law proposal on natural heritage and biodiversity that would solve the serious problem raised by the Supreme Court ruling, which annulled several points of Royal Decree 630/2013 of 2 August, at the request of different environmental groups and associations, adopted by the Government, a year and a half ago. The plenary session of the Congress of Deputies then rejected, regrettably, that consideration, which prolonged the critical situation that severely affects and harms all those people and sectors that have their way of life around the environmental, economic and social benefits that generate fish and cinegetic activities. If half a year ago a legislative amendment such as the one proposed was urgent, it is now a matter of urgency to tackle and correct the consequences that are being suffered as a result of the invasion of exotic species that, even with the protection safeguard, have been converted into large predators of other native species of our Iberian fauna. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that the new nuances incorporated in the text presented today will be sufficient to carry out this parliamentary initiative and that as soon as possible the generic prohibitions that have led to the protection of several species classified as invasive exotics, the case of the common carp or rainbow trout, preventing the possibility of their sport fishing, which, like the kinegetic activity, maintains a high commitment to the conservation and balance of the species and constitutes important economic support for many of our rural cores and environments. It should be noted, however, that since the Supreme Court's ruling prohibiting the capture of these species, many commercial establishments and dozens of fish farms have been closed, dragging the loss of thousands of jobs and more than €3 million. The Forum vote will once again be in favour of this essential legislative amendment. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u43	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Bataller i Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, rural development and nature protection are a clear political priority for us, and we defend it and practice it. [[Rumors]] In fact, the Conselleria de Agricultura, Ambiente, Cambio Climático y Desarrollo Rural de la Generalitat Valenciana is working intensively on the new Law on Protected Natural Spaces, which adapts our regulations to the state legislation,...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u45	One second, Mr. Bataller. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Go on, Mr. Bataller.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u46	Thank you, President. ... but, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what you bring back to us today, after being rejected by this House in June this year, is a text that we cannot validate with our vote, a text that has also been rejected nothing more and nothing less than by more than one hundred non-governmental organisations, seventeen scientific societies and six hundred researchers on environmental issues. What came to Congress on 20 June and which comes again today is not a simple modification of the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Act, but - and this is the serious thing - an attempt to delegalize the protective regime against invasive alien species, something we cannot take lightly. Let's get in the background. The catalogue of invasive species, prepared by the Executive of the People's Party in 2013, left out species such as the rusty goat, rainbow trout, pike, carp and others, and this led the Supreme Court, based on a report from a large group of scientists, to dictate in March 2016 that many of these excluded species should return to the catalogue and therefore could not be marketed. Law 42/2007, with all its imperfections, has provided us with at least a legal framework to which we now want to turn, establishing an exceptionality to taste, because we see that we currently have an article, the 64, which already provides in its third paragraph for a series of exceptions of an objective nature, but now we want to add another paragraph to establish a series of singular derogations from the protective regime, singular derogations that affect a number of species, that we are not told what they are or what behaviors; it is not specified how many and neither is it said with what temporal limitation. All of this would cause enormous legal uncertainty that we should not promote in this House. And - I conclude - we do not believe that it is appropriate for the granting of these unique derogations to be referred to the State Commission for Natural Heritage because this Commission, as the law says, has an advisory status and its functions are, as its relevant 2008 creation decree recalls, to promote, propose and promote, but under no circumstances assume the role of the legislator. In short, we see that if this reform proposal were adopted it would open the door to a clear arbitrariness, to a de-legalisation of the matter, and this is something that we in Compromís will not support. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u47	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Ciuro i Buldó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u48	Thank you, President. From the bench I cannot start my intervention from a personal, moral and even political point of view without showing my absolute rejection and deep sadness for these political prisoners who today are being abusively imprisoned by the judge of the National High Court. [[Protests.-Applause.]] In our hearts are every minute Oriol Junqueras, Jordi Turull, Josep Rull, Meritxell Borràs, Joaquim Forn, Carles Mundó, Raül Romeva, Meritxell Bassa, Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez. Dignity for you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u49	Mrs Ciuró i Buldó, already in a previous speech I have allowed you to leave the matter, but I would ask you, please, that, in addition to the freedom we have to manifest ourselves in this House, you should conform to the question we are dealing with, which at this time, as you know, is a law on the modification of natural heritage and biodiversity. Thank you very much for your understanding. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u50	Thank you, Madam President. As you have asked the question, I would like to tell you that we will vote in favour of admission to procedure and in the process of amendments, if appropriate, we will do our part in defending the balance, the necessary biodiversity, sustainability and also the content of the bill that brings us to debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u52	Thank you, Madam President. We have today in the House the proposal for a law amending the Law on Heritage and Biodiversity brought to us by the People's Party; it comes back for the second time, but in a period even less than that of six months. What a speed! It was not approved clearly and has brought it back, and what I wonder is what has changed from then to now. I guess he's changed one's vote. We are not going to change it: we are voting for it to be taken into consideration, among other things, because my group rarely refuses to process a bill or a bill; it has done so and will continue to do so when it sees fit, but in this case we do not see any harm or problem in which this is dealt with. I say it comes back for the second time and, therefore, the argument we used the previous time remains the same and we will not change it. What I was saying then, and I repeat again, is that I am surprised that, with the People's Party's intention of bringing this in so much, it does not do so with a real decree. I'm not the one who defends real decrees, I've never done it, but the case misses me. I don't mean to say that he defends it, but I'm surprised that the People's Party hasn't brought a decree to change this law. I think it should not be, but, given what we have seen and what we have had so far, in the parliamentary logic of the People's Party it would seem that the normal thing would have been to bring in a decree or a bill. In this case, I believe that what is being done is a kind of political 'attachment' to avoid all the procedure involved in validating a bill, because it needs the report of the Council of State, the economic report, etc., and all that is a chore when you want to pass something. The People's Party clearly knows how to tackle it in this way when it is a majority group and brings a bill from the group itself. In any case, let's leave the methodological issue aside and focus on the content, but I will ask you anyway every time you don't want to present all that procedure, although I hope you don't resort many times to the bill because then we will already think this is a hairdo. As for the urgency of the matter, it is true that it has it, because it is a situation that occurs in many rural areas, in many populations, and I will not deny that they even live from this, so at least for them it is important. This change that occurred as a result of what the Supreme Court sentenced has caused serious economic damage. We must not hide that there is an economic objective here, and it does not seem to me wrong that there is another. Why are we going to consider it bad that people can have economic improvements or benefits from a recreational, tourist, kinegetic or fishing activity? There's nothing wrong with that. The question that we are asking ourselves, and that we were also asking at the time, is: Does this measure harm the environment? This is what we really care about. If it does not harm the environment and is also beneficial for certain rural areas to live from this activity, let's call it fishing, kinegetics or playful, why are we going to allow this to change? He said that there may be different opinions on this subject; I know that there are even scientific opinions that we have all received today that confirm that this change is fatal and there is enough argument to show that the species that are exactly included in this new catalogue do not harm or alter the environmental order in any way. I'm not going to get any longer. Consideration is always positive. In the light of this consideration, if, when it comes to dealing with this matter, we consider that we need to include a number of other issues which are not covered now, we will do so by means of the partial amendments. As far as consideration is concerned, we will vote in favour because we do not believe that it harms the environment, because it is important for people who want to engage in these sports activities, because it is important for the industry that supplies material for these activities and because, in essence, this incentive generates an economy in many places, in many autonomous communities that then reverts to improvements. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Garaulet Rodríguez has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to greet all the collectives, both environmentalists and the hunting and fishing associations that have come to be with us in a debate, and I think it is important this afternoon. Welcome. When faced with a project like this, with a load of emotion as great as the care of our natural heritage can be, a misuse of our feelings can make us perceive in a wrong way what is the goal we want to achieve with these initiatives. To open our eyes we should ask ourselves a series of questions, which is what is done in an analysis: What is it? Why is it done? What's it for? And how do you do it? What is clear is an amendment to Law 42/2007, on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity. And since we are talking about the protection of the natural heritage we will all agree on two points I think are fundamental. Firstly, that invasive alien species are the second most important factor in the destruction of global biodiversity, invasive species that cost the European Union more than EUR 12 billion a year; that the best policy for management against these species is prevention, to take the relevant actions in our customs to prevent such species from entering our territory, but also to raise citizens' awareness that these species cannot be released into the natural environment, as it is often the citizens themselves who are seriously damaging our country's habitats in the discharges. It is therefore important to stop thinking about ultraconservative immobilisms or exterminations of species. What we must think sincerely about is improving management, which I believe is the big problem, a management that is serious, rigorous, scientific and that can be adapted to the changes that will come in the future. We will also agree that mismanagement of public administrations in the eradication of some species can cause suffering to animals. I say this from the perspective that my parliamentary group has shown with initiatives that it is in favour of improving animal welfare. That's why we can't agree with this picture, we can't agree that there are two thousand rusts rotting in Sierra Espuña, because this is an environmental problem and a health problem. [[Shows a picture of a dead rust]] I am sure that Mr López de Uralde, who is in favour of the fight against animal abuse and even of the zero sacrifice, does not agree with this, does not agree with the mismanagement. [[Show the same photo again]] I'm sure you don't agree. He'll answer me now when I get down. Why is it done? Because in Spain, the law was not updated in two fundamental aspects of European Regulation 1143/2014, which was not taken into account in the Supreme Court's ruling. First, the non-mandatory need for the eradication or elimination of alien or invasive species if certain circumstances are met, and second, the need to assess the economic and/or social benefits and effects that these species bring. Ladies and gentlemen, within the strategic objectives of the Birds and Habitats Directive, Article 2 - indeed, the directive on which Law 42/2007 is based - speaks of maintaining and restoring natural habitats and species of Community interest in a favourable state of conservation taking into account economic, social and cultural interests, as well as regional and local characteristics. What is the purpose of this amendment? To provide the autonomous communities with a framework with which they can effectively exercise their managerial powers and provide legal certainty to the sectors. That's why, Mr. Bataller, I don't understand what you've come up here to say. It is to equip the autonomous communities with the necessary tools, which is important in order to be able to do proper management and not what is being done now, which, I point out again, is this. Secondly, to address the negative impacts that the application of the judgment has had on the social and economic aspects of rural municipalities, both in the commercial activities and in the industrial farms to which this sector is concerned. This is not to talk about whether hunting and fishing yes or hunting and fishing no, this is to talk about industrial farms that generate jobs and generate wealth in rural environments, as Mrs De Lara, the rainbow trout farms, who have already said the volume of exploitation she has. I want to remind Mr González of a number of things. Among the most important regions in rainbow trout farms are Castile-La Mancha, Aragon, Asturias, Andalusia. It's important that you know. There is also Catalonia, the Basque Country, Navarre and La Rioja. As for the production of the red crab - Mrs De Lara has already told us before - more than 5,000 families live from this production. Mr Cañamero, two hundred thousand newspapers a year can go to waste if this project is not properly managed. And I'm telling you this because also Prosecutor López, who is the councillor for the Environment and Planning of the Territory of the Andalusian Junta, said that we understand that red crab is an opportunity from an economic and also environmental point of view. How? Mrs. De Lara has already explained it to us. However, the important thing is that a single strategy will be developed by the State Commission for Natural Heritage and Biodiversity containing guidelines for the management, control or possible eradication of invasive species, which will solve once and for all the discoordination that exists between the autonomous communities. Because, ladies and gentlemen, animal species and the environment do not understand borders, they do not understand competences, they do not understand differences between places, however much nationalists and regionalists are committed to this. You don't understand. That is why it is also said here that there is the possibility on the part of the autonomous communities that they can put prohibitions and new actions complementary to this first step. While the first proposal they brought was a law of maximums, which defined the legal certainty of the active subjects, we believe today that it is a proposal of minimums that can be improved at the stage of amendments, in which the three pillars on which the law must be based are compatible: protection of the natural heritage - of course it is -, compliance with the judgment of the Supreme Court, but also with European legislation and, of course, resolving the economic and social needs of citizens. Just a moment, Madam President. We just want to say one thing. The previous bill did not like us for a number of reasons - the first, for the lack of communication on the part of the People's Party and the way in which the bill was presented - but we do not like the moment when it was decided to present it, because Spain is not for these things at the moment, there are far more important things. This is another example of the people's party's erratic way of doing politics on such serious issues as this. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the stage of moving forward, of dialogue, of listening to the sectors concerned and of reaching agreements that will improve this bill so that we can meet the challenges ahead, which are no more than improving our natural heritage but without neglecting the sustainable development of our rural world. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u55	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin by replying to Mr Garaulet. Mr Garaulet, since you are asking me directly, I will tell you that what I stand for is exactly what six hundred scientists, seventeen scientific societies and one hundred non-governmental organizations have put forward before this amendment, before this bill by the People's Party. I, if you allow me, at least I am consistent, which you are not, because here four months ago the representative of Citizens - at that time Mr Cantó - came to defend exactly the opposite that you have defended; exactly the opposite, just four months ago, before the same proposal. Therefore, please do not come to give lessons and see if they are a little consistent with what they pose. In recent weeks we have seen and heard a lot of patriotism about getting involved in flags and so on. I believe that there is a real patriotism that is the patriotism of those who are defending, with great difficulty, our natural heritage. Indeed, there are some of them here today, the representatives of environmental organisations, whom I would like to greet and also to thank for their work, often in the midst of enormous difficulties because normally, as on this occasion, this work is carried out against the economic interests behind most of these changes. In this case behind the modification of the so-called Narbona Law; by the way, comrades of the PSOE, you will support it to be modified. We are actually facing a flight ahead of the People's Party, which is a clear example of a violation of the fundamental right to effective judicial protection. The People's Party's proposal for a law suffers from serious unconstitutionality because it seeks to circumvent the effects of the tried thing, because it is directed against the reservation of jurisdiction and because it violates the separation of powers, since it is undoubtedly aimed solely and exclusively at avoiding the effects of a final judgment of the Supreme Court. This is the only objective that has its proposed law. You're trying to skip a Supreme's sentence that's judged in this matter and this is the second time you've brought it to the Congress of Deputies, I guess this time with well-adjusted support to get that legality skipped. You defend the environment and defend legality do not care very much. You fill your mouth with legality in certain territories and with certain questions but for what it is to defend the law concerning the environment, legality does not matter and if you have to skip it because we skip it, as you are doing with this proposal. [[Applauds]] That's right. The problem caused by invasive species is very serious and you know it. The catalogue established by the royal decree contains more than 160 invasive species. After climate change is the biggest threat to biodiversity and you are opening the door to it again. The economic impact, as has already been said here, is EUR 12 billion. In our country we spend only on the species of the mussel zebra 2 million euros and there are species that extend without brake and that do not matter to you. It seems that of the Asian wasp, the tiger mosquito or the zebra mussel we can't talk, we can only talk, we just have to talk about those species that you care about because you care about the lobbies that you permanently defend. Of the species that are generating very serious environmental problems it is not interesting to talk about, of course. As I have told you, your bill has generated a great alarm in the scientific community. Doesn't that concern you? Are they not concerned that six hundred scientists, seventeen scientific societies and one hundred organizations have opposed their initiative? Don't you care? You don't mind? The argument you have given from this seat, Mrs. De Lara, is twisty and false. Firstly, contrary to what has been said on many occasions, we must say that neither hunting nor recreational fishing for these species is currently prohibited. Secondly, it is also false that the Narbona Law and the Supreme Court ruling affect the breeding of species such as rainbow trout because only their release into the natural environment is prohibited. What you are proposing over and over again is to allow the release again of invasive alien species, which for something are described as so, in the natural environment. You are therefore opening the door to the further promotion of the greatest threat to our country's ecological diversity after climate change. I will tell you in five sentences, because I have little time, in which the current legality is being skipped with its legislative proposal. First, the proposed law attacks the same concept and content of the Spanish catalogue of invasive alien species. Secondly, the scope of his proposal for a law was that declared void by the Supreme Court. As I say, the effective judicial guardianship has been missed. Thirdly, the proposal for a law includes the waiver of administrative powers and - this is very important - the disregard of the validity of the scientific test. You reduce the validity of the scientific test and in the end I will explain to you why. Fourthly, misapplication by the proposed law of the European regulation on exotic species in aquaculture. Fifthly and lastly, they distort the concept of a zoogenetic species in their proposed law to try to validate the norm. What I want to say to you - which is very important and with this I will finish - is that the Law on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity, the Narbona Law, and the royal decree regulating the catalogue of invasive species already include a way of solving complex situations such as that which you claim with this legislative proposal. In order to resolve the issue once and for all, we know of the existence of social and economic interests linked to the exploitation of certain species - we are certainly aware of this - and that there is an economy of working people and of small and medium-sized economic initiatives and enterprises in the rural environment and around the exploitation of species such as crab and rainbow trout. You know very well that if there is the slightest intention or interest in destroying any of these species you have to do it in the proper way and following the procedure that is set out in the law itself. There is no need to amend the law to resolve these issues, there is no need. You're changing the law for something else, not for that. Don't fool us, don't say it's your social concern, we already know you don't have it. Article 5 of the Royal Decree itself contains the procedure for the inclusion and exclusion of species from the catalogue. Simply apply the law, submit to the procedure you establish and act if the scientific reports confirm that these species can no longer be considered invasive, it is enough for the scientific reports to ratify what you have said here so freely. If scientific reports say that these species are naturalized, they can be declassified and there is no problem because the law contemplates it. Therefore, it is not necessary, do not continue to deceive you. Let me tell you that please stop using expressions as ultraconservativeists or radical environmentalists because against this legislative proposal is the whole scientific community and social organizations working in Spain in the defence of the environment. Therefore, please do not misrepresent and use the appropriate language. You can defend economic interests if you think it is right but, of course, do not disqualify others because others do not; what we do is defend with arguments what we have come to defend here, which is the common heritage of all Spaniards, which is their natural heritage. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u57	Thank you very much. Mr González Ramos has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u58	Thank you, Madam President. I greet the associations of fishermen, hunters and environmental groups in the rostrum. I'm going to the People's Party. Wow, man, they bring this initiative back just four months after the previous one was rejected! This is the result of the lack of dialogue on the part of the People's Party, it seems that they are only looking for political revenue and not improving the situation because the Government has disentangled itself from a problem of legal insecurity that has its origin in the sluggish decree that ended up being invalidated by the courts and becoming a social problem which should never have ceased to be a matter of coordination between public administrations. The same objective is reiterated in the new proposal for a law which is now being debated in November, with the novelty of referring to sectoral legislation as an escape route to turn the exception into a general rule. But this proposal for a law is not the solution, the People's Party Government is not to rely on the protection of the environment, it does not guarantee any legal certainty and I wonder: where is Minister Tejerina? We do not believe that this initiative that you are bringing us today, like the one that you brought us in June, will mean for the sectors that you say you want to defend the legal certainty that you need to develop with the necessary stability. The law cannot do everything when it goes against the scientific reality of things, and you know that this proposal of law tries to put a patch to a reality that would not change by the mere fact of the entry into force of this norm; a reality that would soon be broken through the judicial way through new resources because this is bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. If this is the only thing they can offer to the sectors concerned, I am very sorry to tell you that they are simply deceiving them; yes, they are deceiving both hunters and fishermen, those who want to take hostage to a demagogic, absolutely hollow and perishable solution because this initiative is only an act of publicity and demagogic that can only bring anxiety and agony to so many families who today are following this debate with hope. If you will allow me, it is a hope that you and the Government have falsely inflated on all those good people who expect a definitive solution to the uncertainties; uncertainties whose cause you too have been for the false promises. It is a pity that once again Mrs Tejerina does not act as Minister of Agriculture and much less as Minister of the Environment, and does not have the courage to go down to the ground which fishermen and hunters tread every day - that would be asking too much - but at least to come here, to the parliamentary arena, to defend what her department proposes and find a solution. It would have been reasonable for the minister to be here today defending a draft law on the basis of legal and technical reports - which do not exist - following the mandatory process of public information and citizen participation, and accompanied by the relevant scientific studies that support it. That has not been the case; and in some way we will have to fill in the glaring deficits in which the text submitted for consideration by the House is concerned. Now the Minister is inhibiting herself by subcontracting to her own parliamentary group a bill that should have been processed in compliance with the requirements of transparency and participation, and intends to avoid by means of the formula of the proposal of law the accompanying of the mandatory reports; aware that with this they vacate the fulfillment of a court ruling and knowing that a new scenario of insecurity is opened up to generate another frustration in this already long course of demeanors. In any case, as we do believe in Parliament, in the debate and in the confrontation of ideas, we are going to tell you that yes to this consideration, with the firm purpose of this proposal of law can be processed and thus provide sustainable and lasting solutions to the fundamental question of this initiative, always from the irrefutable respect to the protection of our biodiversity and also to the durable solution for thousands of families dedicated to fishing and hunting for social and economic reasons. I have been able to observe in these months the possibilities of encounters, the possibilities of dialogue to solve this problem by all, also by the hunting federation, with its president at the head, José Luis Bruna, and we have heard many hunters and fishermen and many who know that we want to help give a solution; also to associations and ecological groups, who understand that social, economic and environmental reasons must converge in order to move forward. We wanted to seek meetings with the political parties in this House to present an initiative, but soon we saw that it was not possible, and I assure you that we insisted. Simply the group that supports the government, you, the People's Party, did not want to, rejected our proposal. This party, the Socialist Party, has once again been the only one that has sat at a table on Ferraz Street for all the collectives to find solutions. This is what the Rajoy Government should have done and on its behalf the Environment Commissioner, Mrs Tejerina. He hasn't done it and we're not surprised. It's never late; however, I'm afraid it's hidden. That's right, stop fooling all social groups. We trust that here we will be able to do the work that the Government did not want to do. We are going to do this from the Socialist Parliamentary Group so that this legislative procedure is accompanied by the scientific solvency, legal rigour and democratic participation that has been stolen from us. In the face of the irresponsibility shown by the minister by her inhibition, the Socialist Group will try to avoid, to the extent possible, this ending in a new deception to the affected groups and in another sentence similar to that which has brought us here. I insist, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we will work with commitment and responsibility to improve the text in the amendment process, in order to bring together the interests of all parties involved and to achieve a consensus that will lead to the protection of the environment and to the sustainable and safe livelihood of thousands of affected families. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u59	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u60	We turn now to item III of the agenda, on non-legislative proposals, on the consideration of the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the adoption of a true second-opportunity law, and on the non-legislative proposal of the Citizens Parliamentary Group, on measures to ensure a real second-opportunity for families and debtors in insolvency. These initiatives will be discussed cumulatively in accordance with what has been agreed in the Board of Spokesmen. For the presentation of the initiatives and amendments tabled, Mr Gómez García has the floor by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u61	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Most of our young people do not want to start, do not want to start a business, do not want to set up a business, prefer to be civil servants; and it is not that our young people are more conservative or have more aversion to risk than the rest of the young people in the countries around us, no; no, ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that our young people know how difficult and complicated it is to start in Spain, and the burden and negative consequences it will have for their future, if their business goes badly, for the rest of their lives. [[The lady]] In this sense, a relatively short time ago there was an announcement on television saying: the autonomous do not seem human. And if you start thinking, in Spain you have to be a little bold, even brave or a little crazy to risk, to start, to start a business and to try to start a business, because the truth is that it's hard and it's hard for them. Our entrepreneurs, our self-employed don't want us to give them help, they don't want us to give them subsidies, what they want is for the public authorities to do the favor of not making it harder for them, of not making it more difficult for them, of not putting more obstacles or more sticks on the wheel. That is why in Citizens it is a priority - I think it is known to all - to make it easier and to help those self-employed, those entrepreneurs, those small entrepreneurs. My group has already presented the proposal for a law on self-employed persons which has recently entered into force, thanks to our colleague Sergio, who has been struggling to get out, and thanks to that law more than 3 million self-employed persons will have a little easier life. [[Applauds]] But we have not kept that law, it has also been introduced in this House, and we are already in parliamentary procedure, a law to strengthen the fight against lateness in order to force large companies not to take advantage of their position of privilege and to pay in time and form to those small companies, to those self-employed. However, ladies and gentlemen, these measures are not enough because we have to help no company or any self-employed person to fall, but we must also help the one who has fallen to get up. And it is that, unfortunately, in Spain this being able to rise is practically impossible. In other countries you fall and you can get up, here we have the case of Walt Disney or Bill Gates himself, the president of Microsoft, possibly one of the richest men in the world if not the richest, whose businesses went to a halt, were ruined, but they managed to get back together, managed to get up and get ahead and succeed. Well, this in Spain, as I said, is practically impossible because, if unfortunately your business goes wrong, you are practically engaged in civil death, in not having any account in your name, in not having property in your name, in that any income you receive is susceptible to immediate embargo by the Treasury or by Social Security, in short, to live the rest of your life in the submerged economy. The last reforms that have taken place in this regard have not worked and have not worked because they have not addressed the two main issues that make that self-governing, that small enterprise and that this entrepreneur cannot stand up and that are, first of all, debts to Finance and Social Security - we already know that Montoro does not forgive - and, secondly, housing, which is the main asset that a person who devotes more investment efforts, his main assets, and who has to put as a guarantee that self-governing, that small entrepreneur, in order to receive financing from the banks. This has not been solved and these problems have been created that lead to civilian death. As I said, we believe that we must help those who have played it and that, unfortunately, it has gone wrong and we must help those who want to pay and cannot. Therefore, as for Citizens it is a priority to help the self-employed, the small entrepreneurs, an agreement was reached, first of all, with the Socialist Party, that government agreement with Mr Sánchez, and with the People's Party in that investment agreement of Mr Rajoy to reform the Second Chance Law. That is why we hope that you will join us now and support this non-law proposal. We already know that, although it was signed in that investiture agreement, the People's Party is struggling to move its feet and it needs to be dragged slowly. Now, when we had Damocles' sword of the European Union's sanction, it seems that the government has finally passed the bill to amend the Mortgage Credit Act to transpose the European directive and we have already announced that in the parliamentary process of that bill, if it is allowed to proceed, we will introduce amendments to make this second opportunity a reality. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of helping those who do not want to pay, but of helping those who cannot pay for different circumstances at the moment. If we really let him breathe, in the future he'll be able to pay and move on. Ladies and gentlemen, for justice and because we believe that this would be good for our economy, we ask you to vote in favour of this non-law proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u62	Thank you very much, Mr Gómez García. Mrs Tundor Moreno has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u63	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Second Chance Act, the reduction of the financial burden and other social measures that we want to amend today began without consensus. The initiative was treated as a royal decree and, therefore, without parliamentary procedure, i.e. without sufficient debate by the different groups of the House. We are talking about a law with many changes that was quickly and badly made. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to be sensitive because unemployment caused by the economic crisis, structural changes in the labour market and job insecurity are the main causes of over-indebtedness. Moreover, the evolution of family indebtedness in Spain has much to do with the evolution of housing prices, as a result of the ineffectiveness of the measures of the Soil Law promoted by the central government and the very limited investment in protected housing that should have been developed through the four-year housing plans, causes that are alien to the people who suffer it. That is why it is necessary to have legal mechanisms that give people who are over-indebted a second chance, measures demanded by civil society, judges, lawyers, self-employed workers and entrepreneurs and proposals, among others, by the Socialist Party in recent years without the People's Party giving its arm to twist so that the law can fulfil its indispensable social function. The data show that the expectations have not been met and the reality is that a lot more people could be welcomed into this procedure. The law has had a very discreet start and the number of contests presented is around 1400 in all of Spain compared to the more than 100,000 annual ones being processed in France or Germany. Moreover, these countries have for years had consolidated systems of social protection against economic bankruptcy that could affect their consumers and their families in order to avoid the risk of marginalization arising from the lack of economic resources to cope with financial responsibilities. In Spain, ladies and gentlemen, companies have the real possibility to settle their debts, but not the families and the self-employed. The Government's objective in adopting the Second Chance Act should have been to overcome this anomaly with respect to the rest of European countries and to compensate those overtaken by debts. What the Socialist Group wants with this initiative is to do justice by putting the natural and legal person at the same level, in the sense of not leaving the debt for life. One of the keys to making the Second Chance Act truly effective is that the entrepreneur or self-employed, and above all the insolvent citizen, have it easy, easy in the courts and even more before they get to that. Do you think that an insolvent person can go to a lawyer and pay the minute more for the costs for the procedure? Ladies and gentlemen, this is impossible when you've lost everything. The Socialist Group, as a result of the terrible effects that the crisis has had on people, has been demanding from the Government since 2012 an effective second chance law, such as those that have other countries in its environment, a law that not only reaches out to big entrepreneurs, but is viable for individuals who cannot cope with their payments for a change in their economic situation. The legislation that was launched in 2015 does not work and does not meet its objectives. The Socialist Parliamentary Group introduced more than fifty amendments to the bill aimed at making it easier for families of indebted self-employed persons to cope with their payments and re-establish their lives. The amendments tabled at the time contained many of the measures that we are debating today. The exemption of part of their debts and the possible avoidance of the liquidation of their assets, while maintaining their habitual housing, without having to carry indefinitely a slab of debt that can never be satisfied, was the objective of the socialist amendments to this bill. Today we urge to amend the Competition Law in order to allow the judge to paralyse the mortgage execution in the event of unjustified insolvency and that it is impossible to agree the application of the loan in payment, valuing the housing at the price established for the granting of the loan, that is, eliminating the period of five years in which the debts exonerated may be claimed again; allowing the debts with Treasury and with Social Security to be negotiated in the out-of-court settlement of payments and to be exempt from the debtor's unfulfilled liability with maximum legal certainty, following technical criteria; matching the voting percentages necessary to approve an out-of-court settlement of payments by natural persons to those required for the formalization of the agreement in the creditor's contests and making flexible, with the appropriate safeguards, the requirements for the most vulnerable debtors to cancel their debts by means of the payment of their habitual housing, maintaining the right to remain in their home for three years with a rent that does not exceed 30 % of the permanent person's income from the protected property in a special way to the state of the home, a fixed rate of the family, with a fixed value of the person's income in the family, with a fixed condition of the person's In 2014, the European Commission already made a recommendation on the new approach to insolvency and corporate failure, suggesting the establishment of a real second- chance debt-for-debt regime for less than three years, provided that the bona fide criterion is given, which is the basis for all these measures. We have to take due account of the assumptions of good faith and bad faith, because the application of a regulation such as the one we are debating today does not have to affect neither the payment culture of all our citizens nor the cost of credit being increased, since in countries of our environment with an applied regulation equal to the one we are debating today nor has the payment culture and the cost of credit been damaged. The speed with which the People's Party rescued financial institutions contrasts with the procedure of saving people affected by the crisis. Banks, fast money and no counter-performance; citizens, on the other hand, long and complex mechanisms that hardly allow us to start over again. Ultimately, at least for those affected by the mortgage, it is not a second opportunity, but a procedure that further prolongs the mortgage agony. It is an unquestionable truth that the chain is as strong as its weakest link, as unquestionable is that a society is as strong as its weakest or vulnerable member. Ladies and gentlemen, let us build a stronger society by supporting the initiative we are presenting. Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u64	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tundor Moreno. In defence of the amendments put forward by your group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States, Ms Martín González, intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u65	Good afternoon. Thank you very much. I wanted to start my speech by mentioning Isa. Isa is a neighbor of the neighborhood of Tetuán de Madrid who faces a two and a half year's imprisonment for trying to stop an eviction in a totally peaceful way. While we have the most corrupt party in history in the government, prison sentences are requested for people trying to stop the evictions of their neighbors. It is not only a complete injustice, but it is outrageous. That is why my parliamentary group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, wants to show its support, solidarity and sincere gratitude to Isa and so many other people who, like her, have been absolutely peacefully defending the rights of all with her body and on the street all these years. [[Applauds]] These two PNLs bring back to Congress - and they already go countless times - the need to pass a change of law that once and for all allows people to have a simple, quick and affordable legal procedure in order to be able to settle their debts and have a second chance. It is a shame that at this point we still have laws that protect the banks so blatantly, and it is a shame that after all these years, after the trampling of the right to housing that we have experienced and have seen, no payment has yet been approved in this country. Today, the Socialist Group proposes to introduce several changes to the Second Chance Act 25/2015, which was launched in its day by the People's Party. Rajoy himself took up that law shortly before it was passed during a debate on the state of the nation. Rajoy explained this proposal by referring to the legislation in force until then and said something like this: 'This condemned households and entrepreneurs to live on the slab of past debt even having renounced their assets. With this reform... it will be possible to get rid of that slab. It's a very important reform.' That's what I was saying. Well, today, two years later, everyone - lawyers, judicial professionals, organizations of affected people - agrees that this law has been a failure and that it serves nothing of what was said to be served. After two years less than 1500 individuals have been admitted to a creditor competition, and of those 1500 people the Government doesn't even know - we asked it and you don't know - how many have been admitted to creditor competition through this law, so it's clear that Rajoy lied, because that law doesn't even serve for people who have lost their homes because they can't afford to pay off their debt, nor is it economically affordable - which is a crime, because we're talking about people who can't pay their land - nor does it enable any simple or quick procedure. The truth is that the second chance you approved was the one you gave the banks to continue charging mortgage debts, that was the second chance you approved. [[Applauds]] That is why we are still in a country where any company that has not functioned can settle its debts and start again, and instead the families that cannot pay its mortgage find that practically the only way to get a payment is: one, to fight it on its own in the bank, with all the difficulty it is; two, to be on the platform of 'Affected by the mortgage' or other similar collectives; or three, to wait for a very harsh economic and social situation in order to be able to meet the barbarity of requirements of the code of good practice of Mr De Guindos, a code of good practice that, after five years in progress, has achieved only nine thousand payments in payment and, in return, restructured the debt, that is, it has extended the mortgages and increased the interest to pay to more than forty thousand impoverished families. With these numbers you can only tell one thing to the People's Party government: happiness. If you were the legal services of a bank, you would have earned much more than an extra at the end of the year, but it turns out that you are the government of the state and it is a shame that you work every day to cause the slightest inconvenience to the banks and to cut to the maximum the rights of the people. In 2013 you dropped an ILP which proposed payment and which came to this Parliament with a million and a half signatures, with 80% of citizens in favour and with citizen support that was absolutely cross-cutting and that was not partyist. Less than two years ago, several autonomous laws were suspended through the Constitutional Court, which sought, among other things, to enable second- chance mechanisms for all these indebted families, and today they remain unanswered. It's not that you're incompetent, no, you know perfectly who you work for, what happens is that you just understand charity and you don't understand rights, what happens is that you rule for a few and not for the majority, and what's worse, never, ever have the courage to come up here and openly say what results your proposals seek, because, if you did, everyone would realize who you work for. [[Applauds]] So, given this scenario, welcome is this GNP, although we do want to make it clear to the PSOE that we cannot talk about a second chance if we do not talk about cancelling the mortgages completely, and we cannot talk about a second chance if we do not talk about a payment. Nor can we talk about ensuring reallocation in a public rental park when today that public park does not exist, and to have it precisely what we need are those empty floors that are in the hands of the banks, in the hands of the vulture funds and in the hands of other great owners. I'm done. Today we are talking about a GNP, but all the groups in this House have had the opportunity to review already a proposal for a law of the mortgage-affected platform which contains, among other measures, the regulation of payment and the implementation of second chance mechanisms so that people who already have a debt can cancel it. Our commitment to that text is total and in this Congress there is in fact a majority that could approve that proposal outside the PP and Citizens, who already know that they will not agree. I would say that today one of the commitments that is still missing from this proposal is that of the Socialist Party, so, beyond well-intentioned GNP that we think is good, do the favor of committing to the legislative changes that citizens are proposing to this Congress, because anything else can be left alone in wet paper in the Journal of Sessions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u66	Thank you very much, Mrs Martín González. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Matos Mascareño has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the two non-legislative proposals we are discussing propose to amend Law 25/2015 of 28 July 2015 on the second-opportunity mechanism, the reduction of the financial burden and other social measures, a law which, in turn, amended the Competition Law, the Royal Decree-Law on urgent measures for the protection of unresourced mortgage debtors and the Law on measures to strengthen the protection of mortgage debtors, debt restructuring and social rent. The proposed amendments refer to the need to review a number of issues and aspects regulated in those laws and that it will be mandatory to revise as soon as the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on preventive restructuring frameworks, second opportunity and measures to increase the efficiency of restructuring, insolvency and debt relief procedures is transposed. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group and the Government share the need to address the review of issues and aspects referred to in the non-legislative proposals that we are discussing together today, but we advocate that this be done within the framework and with the content of the transposition of the above directive, which governs all these issues within the European Union. In this respect, the amendment which we have tabled and which we are asking for is accepted by the proposing groups. Furthermore, our amendment requires the Government to transpose the directive within a maximum of six months, which is not set out in the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal and which we consider necessary to impose. Ladies and gentlemen, the European directive focuses on three key aspects: establishing common principles on the use of early restructuring frameworks, laying down rules for entrepreneurs to be given a second chance and establishing specific measures for Member States to increase the efficiency of insolvency, restructuring and debt settlement procedures. We believe that it is in this area, at that time, that we should address the revisions proposed today, including those relating to public debts, those relating to public finances and social security, the reduction of the requirements for access to the exoneration of the unsatisfied liability of the natural person and the corresponding amendment of the Civil Prosecution Act, among other proposed measures. Ladies and gentlemen, the two non-law proposals, the Competition Law of 9 July 2015, the Royal Decree-Law on Urgent Measures for the Protection of Mortgage Debtors of 9 March 2012, the Law on Measures to Strengthen the Protection of Mortgage Debtors, Debt Restructuring and Social Rent of 14 May 2013, are the rules in which for the first time in our country there is talk of insolvency, bona fide debtors, debt restructuring, take-off, pay-off, debt relief and second chance. These issues had never been settled in our country before. This was done by a Government and a parliamentary group, the People's Parliamentary Group, with an absolute majority and therefore no need to depend or have other parliamentary groups for approval. Never before had the Socialist Party and its various left-wing governments made a norm like this in the nearly twenty years in which they ruled Spain. It has been the People's Party, Mrs Martín González, and not the left, which, for the first time in Spain, regulates the obligation to restructure the mortgage debt, regulates the removal of a part of the outstanding capital, regulates the payment in payment with the total cancellation of the debt for the debtor families of good faith with insolvency and in a situation of vulnerability, that is, the families with incomes less than 19,164 euros - three times the Iprem -, which are the income that 40% of the employees of another country have. Mrs Martín González, you were advocating universal pay for everyone. That is to say, a person who had a house of EUR 1 million, who had won EUR 200 000 a year and who for you had only EUR 100 000 would have the right to deliver his house of EUR 1 million and to continue living with its EUR 100 000 or EUR 150 000. Not us. We limited ourselves to people who really had that social need and vulnerability because it's nonsense what you proposed: to do it for everyone. It has been the People's Party, not the left, which for the first time regulates the second chance mechanisms and debt relief of natural persons. That to the left of this country still shakes him off. It is worth remembering this because interventions are heard from some who ruled almost twenty years and who seem to have never been in the Government, or from others, the new ones, with whose interventions it seems that Spain and the world were, before their arrival, an immense vacuum. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to its own non-legislative proposal and another amendment exactly the same as the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal. These two amendments are identical from the first letter to the last one to a non-law proposal of Citizens, already approved in the Committee on Economics at its session on 27 June 2017, just over four months ago. Therefore, today we are going to devote an hour or an hour and a half to discussing and adopting a non-legislative proposal that is already adopted in the Commission only four months ago. Mr Garaulet on the previous agenda item criticized the People's Parliamentary Group for submitting an amendment to the Law on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity, as if there were no other more important things to present at the moment with which it is falling in Spain. And I ask Citizens: and to re-submit and discuss a non-law proposal that is already passed today, how do Mr. Garaulet and Citizens value it? What is intended by submitting a non-legislative proposal that is already presented? What's the point of passing non-law proposals over and over again? Perhaps, Lords of Citizens, this is what you call a new policy. This is not a new policy, this is simply a teenager's policy or the age of the turkey. [[Applauds]] I'm done. The People's Parliamentary Group will support these non-legislative proposals if our amendment to the Socialist Parliamentary Group's proposal is accepted and if the citizens' text is maintained. If the identical text is accepted or what is voted on today is the identical text to the one already adopted on 27 June, we will do the same as we did then, which is abstaining. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Matos Mascareño. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to express my support for this set of initiatives that seek to urge the Government to move forward with new measures, the fund of which coincides with the commitment of my party, Forum, which incorporated in its electoral agenda the revision of the Second Chance Act in order to make it truly a second chance, without linking debt settlement to the smooth running of future entrepreneurial initiatives. In addition, we emphasized in our program that we want to improve it, freeing the endorsements from burdens. Ladies and gentlemen, the Second Chance Mechanism Act, the reduction of the financial burden and other social measures, popularly known as the Second Chance Act, came into force just over two years ago, but it was already warned that the mechanisms created to provide it with a social content consistent with a situation of great precariousness, even ruin, that went through thousands of small entrepreneurs, self-employed and entrepreneurs who succumbed to the harshness of the economic crisis, also dragging away the wealth and economy of their families for many years. [[The lady]] The inadequacy of the measures provided for in this law has recently been demonstrated by the recognition, even from some sectors of the Government, of its lack of usefulness and the need to change it is given by the analyses to deal with the European directive on restructuring and second chance, which, it should be stressed, is being drawn up in view of the fact that the so-called Recommendation on a new approach to insolvency and corporate failure 2014 has also been insufficient and has led to the regulatory deficit in the legislative procedures subsequently applied in the member countries. That has clearly been the case in Spain. Hence the relevance of urging the Government to amend the Second Chance Act. In fact, important conclusions and recommendations from high European bodies are already circulating for the reform of this second chance law in Europe because it had not had the desired impact in order to facilitate business restructuring and to design a real second chance. The Forum vote, Madam President, will be in favour of these parliamentary initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u70	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. This non-law proposal by the PSOE and the Citizens speaks of a real second chance law in favour of families, self-employed people and small entrepreneurs, and of course from Compromís we will vote in favour. But we have a feeling, and it is that we are wasting our time miserably; a feeling of boredom, probably the same as the spokesman of the People's Party when I asked what sense it has to approve these initiatives over and over again, because we are being lost in fireworks. As long as Mr Rajoy and the People's Party follow, they will remain unchanged from the Competition Law, as Mr Matos has already said. They will continue to keep it unchanged so that people have a real second chance, because the People's Party has no will either in that law or in any that has a social function. The Socialist Party's explanatory statement says that the initiatives approved by the People's Party are absolutely insufficient: clearly insufficient for families and small businesses, aimed at facilitating the viability of large companies. Elementary, dear PSOE, elementary. We just saw him this week. The PP has resorted to the Valencian laws of the social role of housing and energy poverty, because the PP is not of second chance, the PP is more of flags that hide their misery or to work for the interests of the most powerful, in this case the banks. And you know what? The only way I can get families, self-employed people and small businesses to have a real second chance is for this Parliament to be given a second chance to move the People's Party away from the government of the State once and for all. The rest will be commendable, but very, very, very probably useless. The PP does not change, we have just seen it again today with the intervention of the representative of the Madrid Assembly. In our view, it is not going to change the People's Party. Moreover, I believe that the fence has been opened for all social laws. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u72	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u73	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by recalling that at the moment there are ten people, ten political prisoners, who without a firm sentence are imprisoned for their political ideas: the Vice-President of the Generalitat, seven advisers and two presidents of Catalan entities. [[Some Members: No, no!]] Let them and you know from here that we're not going to fail until you're free. [[Applauds]] Having said that, we will support both initiatives. Beyond the detail, beyond the content, beyond the text, since what is intended is to promote a legislative initiative that we believe is necessary, of course we will give our support. In fact, if you take the trouble of reading the Journal of Sessions of this House on July 23, 2015, when the Second Chance Act was passed - a proposal at that time by the Party of the People alone - our group tabled some amendments, some of which we considered to be trunks and other accessories. At that time, these amendments were not adopted and were voted against, which was then Law 25/2015. It is not reasonable for all creditors to cooperate on the second occasion and not to cooperate with the Public Finance and Social Security. That should be remedied and remedied. Nor is it reasonable that the exonerated debts could be claimed at the age of five and that should be remedied because, in fact, the law, as predicted at that time, has not worked; it has not worked especially for small and medium-sized enterprises and it has not worked either for non-entrepreneurial natural persons or for self-employed persons. We must therefore be in a hurry. Citizens' gentlemen, if the People's Party does not comply with their agreements and they have to ask for the House's protection, in reasonable ways they will surely find it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u74	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u75	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Pick it up on. Our group has already noticed the need to introduce second- chance mechanisms, or fresh start of Anglo-Saxon law, that allow the resolution of the insolvency of natural persons, particularly of the debtor in good faith that becomes insolvent due to other circumstances, especially if we also take into account that the crisis that has affected Spain has its origin, among other things, in the systemic nature of private indebtedness. In addition, it should be borne in mind that the principle of universal responsibility which rests with the debtor is difficult for the debtor to trace back without the existence of such mechanisms. In this context, and also by recommendations of international agencies - International Monetary Fund - in Spain, the Law 25/2015 of 28 July of second chance mechanism, reduction of the financial burden and other measures was articulated, although - to be said - it was a law that included numerous amendments to other laws that had little to do with it, making it a bit of a bus law. A law, therefore, which has not been fully effective and which did not collect numerous amendments from the parliamentary groups which could have improved the same, so at the moment what it is trying to do is to include, via PNL, those measures that were not contained in Law 25/2015. Although we appreciate the initiative of the groups with similar GNP, with the aim of trying to improve the second chance mechanism, we are also surprised because already in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs a GNP of these characteristics - specifically that which the Citizens Group brings us here today - was discussed on 27 June 2017, which collected several amendments and which was also approved, among others, with the favourable vote of the Socialist Group. It is true that you have some new issues in your GNP, but of course - and being both compatible - we would like a compromise to be reached because the objective you are pursuing is the same. With regard to GNP, it must be said that, in agreement with numerous points, which are also reflected in the GNP of Citizens, we differ with others, however, because they include in the second chance mechanism a series of measures which should be reflected in other laws, something which we also criticize in Law 25/2015 because they differ with the central object of the second chance mechanism. Thus, for example, we do not see sufficient justification for the need to enable a central anti-discharge office when some autonomous communities already have such or similar offices and they are the ones closest to their citizens to be able to help them. Nor do we understand the point in which they speak of the development of a new model of sheltered housing for rent when it is the autonomous communities that have competence in this matter, and they also know best the reality of their territory to establish those measures that they consider most appropriate and convenient, and even the question of the automatic elimination of the clauses declared abusive, we believe that they should also be included in mortgage legislation. On the other hand, it seems to us that the payment-in-payment proposed when it equates treatment with public claims so that the process of granting exemption from the unsatisfied liability covers all creditors and that, before voices that denied and denied the possibility of exemption, we are gradually finding ourselves with judicial decisions to the contrary, inspired by the favour of creditors and that even the World Bank tells us that excluding the exemption from public credit undermines the entire insolvency treatment system because it deprives debtors, creditors and society of many benefits from the system. The State must endure the same treatment as other creditors in order to support the insolvency treatment system. Leaving public credit outside of the exemption would be a serious failure because it encourages private indebtedness for the payment of that public credit or even beyond, since the lack of access to the credit system means that many people are trapped and are driven by the submerged economy. Also the fact of not neglecting the pressing issue of guarantors and guarantors. The guarantors, family members of the insolvent debtor, are usually the parents or other family members who mortgage their habitual dwelling to endorse or trust the debtor and see how creditors turn against them to enforce the guarantees on their dwellings. This does not appear to be entirely reasonable when the guarantors are in conditions similar to those established for the mortgage debtor. I would also like to point out that, having said all the above, we must bear in mind that the European Commission has published the draft directive on restructuring and second chance, a proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on preventive restructuring frameworks, a second chance and measures to increase efficiency in the cancellation, insolvency and restructuring procedures and amending Directive 2012/30, since the report on the follow-up to the European Commission's recommendation on a new approach to insolvency and corporate failure concluded that this recommendation had not had the desired impact in order to facilitate business restructuring and to give entrepreneurs a second real chance. Thus, the European Commission seems to want to make a major shift in insolvency regulation, aware of the economic impact of the competition system as an essential tool for economic recovery or market cleaning with the release of productive resources for more efficient uses. But until this directive is formulated, we also believe that it is necessary to undertake those reforms which are deemed appropriate. For all that said and without entering into any further appraisals, our group is going to wait to see if we can reach a transactional with which they agree to position us with respect these two PNLs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u76	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Gómez García and Mrs Tundor whether the groups accept any of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u77	We're working on a transactional.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u78	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u79	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left on the defense of the model of the Catalan school. The author of the initiative, Mr Olòriz Serra, has the floor for the defence of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u80	Deputies, deputies, president, have spent fifteen days of the inquiry to the Minister of Education and everything that could get worse has worsened. My Education Adviser is in Belgium and the Minister of Education is protecting the Council, but the Catalan school is resisting. Because the Catalan school, as a fundamental tool for social cohesion, equal opportunities and educational quality, has been a reality through the consensus we have built over the past thirty years. In the last thirty years, education professionals have exercised with vocation and passion their teaching, offering children and young people the tools necessary to develop in adult life. They have done so by transmitting the values of democracy, respect, diversity, dialogue and tolerance and have done so by suffering very hard cuts in recent years but maintaining the quality of the school. Now it's time to reverse them and make up for them. During these years Catalan students have achieved the linguistic objectives of knowledge of the two official languages in our country, Catalan and Spanish. In this second case even the state average, above the monolingual communities, improves data from the same ministry of the Spanish State. [[Applauds]] It is teachers, teachers and teachers who have to determine pedagogically how to achieve curricular objectives. To this day, the validity of the teaching task has been demonstrated...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u81	One second, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u82	But despite the evidence, we periodically received...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u83	Your Honor, Mr. Olòriz, one second. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, please, to take your seats, if not, to leave the Chamber. Please remain silent. Go ahead, Mr. Olòriz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your equanimity. Despite the evidence, we regularly receive recurrent attacks on Catalonia's own language and also on how we teach. Now, this obsession becomes more evident and overwhelming with the presence of Citizens in this Congress and with the actions of some ministers of the government of President Rajoy. There is a clear will to deceive and manipulate Spanish public opinion with false and unfounded statements. That is why we call for the refusal of Foreign Minister Dastis, for having lied before international public opinion and not having rectified despite his clear evidence in the falsehood of his claims. We call for the cessation as minister of a person who has been disqualified to lead the Spanish diplomacy. However, we accept the vote on the points on the motion separately. This animosity against the Catalan school today has a new episode. This morning they were summoned to declare by the court of first instance and instruction of the Seu d`Urgell the director and four teachers of the Escola Albert Vives, the director and a teacher of the Escola Pau Claris and the director of the Escola La Salle, two public centers and a concerted center. An ordinary court declares itself competent in an issue which is educational and which has its way through regulated educational mechanisms such as inspection. All our solidarity with these teachers. They're not alone, we're by his side. [[Applauds]] Now everything goes well, everything is possible to criminalize the teacher and the Catalan school to which he serves. In contrast, the unforgivable and terrible trivialization of the fascist violence of recent days in Catalonia, whose extreme atavistic aggressiveness of the redundant discourse of 'a for them' as a right of conquest. No open court proceedings. This is the landscape after 155: my councillor, three more councillors and the president voluntarily submitted to Belgian justice, in freedom; the vice president and seven more councillors, in prison, as a result of the black spot represented by the National High Court. As he said yesterday in La Vanguardia Antoni Puigverd, it is the result of the media climate of the capital, favorable to interpret our legislation not as an instrument of civilization but as an immobilizer iron suit that most impose on minorities. Judge Lamela has assumed a case of alleged sedition and rebellion for which the plenary of the National Court at the time stated that she was not competent. He has fully accepted the prosecutor's thesis, which has been rebutted...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u85	Mr. Olòriz...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President, I understand what you are going to say to me and I will focus on the subject.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u87	But I'm going to tell you anyway.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u88	...and in the middle of this blindfold...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u89	Mr. Olòriz, one second. I'm going to tell you that you have to go to the point, and I think I've said it a few times in the afternoon. I'm telling you with all due respect, but I'm telling you. I think it will be the last time I tell a speaker this afternoon that we have to get to the point. I understand the freedom of the speaker, but I also understand that I have to comply with the Rules of Procedure and that is why I remind Mr Olòriz of that. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u90	Without a doubt, Madam President, no one escapes the context in which this speaker is speaking, unfortunately. And in the middle of this boulder, the Catalan school. Who do you want to convince by attacking Catalan school? Who wants to stay in a state turned into a prison? They're late and bad. And as never before, it unites hope, unites politics as a service, as a sacrifice if necessary, to fulfill what you have carried on the program and for what people have given you their confidence: the more sea, the more sail, and the more sail, the more sea. Mario Benedetti said: Don't give up, please don't give up, / even if the cold burns, / even if the fear bites, / even if the sun goes down and the wind shuts down, / there's still fire in your soul, / there's still life in your dreams. [[He finishes his speech in Catalan.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u91	Thank you very much. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Salvador Armendáriz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Olóriz, I do not know if you know of an internal document of Convergence, which already summarized in 1990 the strategy to build a Catalan national consciousness, a kind of nationalist reprogramming - if you don't know it, I pass it - in which a whole country strategy was designed to achieve retaliatory action for the Catalan people. I can read you some pearls about education. Aims of education - he said -: to promote the Catalan national feeling of teachers, parents and students; permanent training plan that takes into account national interests; to catalanize educational programmes; to reorganize the bodies of inspectors and to elect these staff; to influence the actions of parents, providing people and leaders with nationalist criteria; to ensure the composition of the opposition courts, to stimulate the national feeling of students, etc. Reading this, Mr Olóriz, I have no doubt what Mr Pujol and the higher mother intended to do with education. What I find surprising is that you have doubts that they would not carry it out, because we know what the power of the Pujol clan was, the interest they put in, the time they were ruling, that no one in the educational community denounced it, the complicit silence of some, the grateful stomachs of others, the civilian deaths of those who denounced it. And we know in the end that language is the instrument of nationalism to build the difference. Do you mean that, in the face of all these facts, the Catalan educational system was shielded from indoctrination, as the Government, which prepared, organized and consciously financed this retaliation, wanted? I do not doubt the teaching quality of the faculty or the system managers. I do not doubt that, but allow, Mr Olóriz, that you do not doubt the declared, publicized and interested intention of the politicians of your community to put education at the service of national construction. It's just that there's no doubt. Also, if I may, all nationalisms do the same, call Franco, call Azalluz, call Pujol; the same. What do you want me to say? As Galileo said, in front of the official doctrine, yet he moves; that is, that indoctrination, he indoctrinates. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u93	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u94	I'll be as fast as I can. We will vote in favour of the initiative, of the motion by Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya. We will do so in solidarity with the attacks on the Catalan educational model, in support of teachers accused of defending freedom of expression and in defence of the right of nations - Catalan, Basque and any other - to define their own educational model. We say solidarity with the attacks on the Catalan educational model because in these times it seems that 155 has become fashionable again and Wert too, who was saying: we must end the factories of independence. I cannot, for lack of time, present all the examples of what have been attacks on the Basque educational model, which are very similar to those now suffering from the Catalan educational model, but at the same time they were doing those attacks and talking about indoctrination they were saying things and doing things like the Civil Guard armament fair in Cintruénigo, or the fact that yesterday the Education Advisor of Castile and León said something like that emotional identification and psychological adherence with the Armed Forces was vital for the boys and girls of Castile and León. But that's not indoctrination. I'll finish with a question. I think we have every right to build our educational model, even though Rafael Catalá talks about refocusing basic competences for the State, and I don't think it's worth standing still, that what's worth fighting for our educational model. Here, at least for us, we are not worth it if we do not stand still, or what disaster or what evil everything.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u95	Thank you very much. For the Joint Group, Mr Xuclà i Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Savior, you've been wrong and you've been wrong a lot. Some fought for democracy, and you have put Franco alongside the fighters for democracy, and fought not to renationalize or reprogram anything, but to return to the normality of being able to express themselves; to return to the normality of my parents, that half of their life could not be educated in Catalan or express themselves in Catalan on the street; for the normality of the one who speaks to him, who is the son of the Catalan school and I believe he expresses himself in a correct Spanishman so that you understand him. Don't touch one of our treasures of cohesion and coexistence in Catalonia! Do not use coexistence in Catalonia and do not create the lies of the account of this manipulation of creatures. I accuse myself, myself and my family that we have educated in Catalan, also in the concerta, that which you defend and which has also defended cohesion and linguistic immersion; I accuse myself of having spoken to my daughters and my daughters' friends about what is happening these days in Catalonia, because this is the reality: a cry for freedom for which our parents fought and for which we will fight. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u97	For the Basque Parliamentary Group PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u98	Thank you, Madam President. We have a motion by Esquerra Republicana in defense of the Catalan system of education, a system to which my group adheres, among other things because, as he himself says in his preamble, it is a model that has proved to be successful, a model that has been valid for social and linguistic integration, an educational model that has the social endorsement of the unions of the educational community and of the majority of the parents of Catalonia, in the background a system of linguistic immersion that has proved to be receptive to the knowledge of Catalan by all Catalans. And that seems to be a crime for some. The Catalan system of education, as well as the Basque system of education, is an own system of education, and I think the problem lies in those who say: What do you mean, an own system of education? Here there is only one system, which is Spanish, and everything else is subsidiary. Those of us who defend the Basque system of education, for example, say that it is not only about the ability to implement the educational policies that are decided in Madrid; no, no, it is about the ability to do the educational policies in Vitoria and that they are implemented in the three provinces, and the same in the case of the Foral Community of Navarre. Therefore, it is the freedom to decide the educational model. It's not worth that of: Since I don't like the model and I still like less those in the government implementing those policies, I ask the state to intervene. Since I do not like the model that implements, for example, the Generalitat of Catalonia, I like that it intervenes, that it actually intervenes, the same in education as in health. What happens is that we end up intervening in politics in general, so that even a government is involved and a parliament is involved until it is undone. The model of linguistic immersion has undoubtedly been the totem and taboo, the permanent resource, the disqualification and the fire of hell of those who do not want to consider the Catalan language a cultural value and a necessary tool of communication. The problem is that what they want is that society doesn't need Catalan. The same is true of anti-Euskera in Navarre, so, of course, anti-Euskera in Navarre. In the Basque Autonomous Community, thank God, that has gradually disappeared, although some remain. And in Navarra, as I said, it's not enough to be against the euskera, you have to be against the need for the euskera, and whoever defends it ends up blaming all the evils. Do you remember that whole thing is ETA? For in the end defending the euskera in Navarre was almost, almost ETA. I told Minister Méndez de Vigo at his last appearance a phrase that I heard in his day to Ernest Maragall, who said that in Catalonia some people want to be guaranteed the right by law not to learn or use a language, of course, while that language is Catalan, Basque or, also to their extent, Galician. This phrase was also recalled to the ideological mother of the lords of Citizens, Rosa Díez, who in her delusions and obsessions was engaged day and night with this theme. Obviously, Minister Dastis - and as I have little time to finish - should apologize publicly for failing to tell the truth, after having done the greatest of ridicule on television with his shameful interview at the BBC, while the astonished journalist could not imagine telling him what he was saying by seeing the images he was witnessing. Is that the Spanish brand image you want to convey? After the shameful motion that on this question Citizens presented in a neoversion of the renewed José Antonianism, everything that is to stir Catalonia generates rejoicing and in turn activates the hormone of the most rancid Spanishism. Speaking of education and Catalonia, I do not want to forget Clara Ponsatí, who, instead of being in her position as a teaching advisor to the Generalitat, have been put in jail. In defence of the educational system of its own, of the language, of the identity, of the self-government and of all the rights that, as a people, assist it as well as Euskadi to Catalonia, let them know that we, the Basque Nationalist Group, will have them by their side. As Lehendakari Aguirre said, always with Catalonia. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u99	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Roldán Monés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u100	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have little time, I will make only two comments on this motion by Esquerra, one in relation to politicisation in the classroom and indoctrination, which has already been discussed in this House, and the other in relation to one thing that they are also addressing, which is the idea of the model d'éxit, this which they are trying to sell, which is another imaginary construction of nationalism. Jules Ferry, a minister of public education in France from the late 19th century, was one of the major promoters of the compulsory, free and public secular school in France. He had a great influence on the Second Republic in Spain and sent a letter in 1883 to the teachers, a famous letter called Letter to the teachers, which said the following: If you have any doubts about the degree of intervention you are planning on your students, do a single exercise, ask yourself if a single father of those children, listening to you, would have any cause for complaint. If so, refrain from saying what you are going to say. If not, then you are transmitting culture and knowledge. In recent weeks in Catalonia there have been hundreds of complaints in the courts and the prosecution against the political manipulation that nationalism has made in the classrooms of Catalonia, and many of them are reports of hatred. For example, a mother complains, in a school in Vall-lobrega, that her six-year-old daughter had been told that Spain was stealing, that that was very bad and that, therefore, we must go and vote against the oppressive state. These are allegations. People don't say that, mothers and fathers say that. There are hundreds of complaints about political symbols in schools. Do you feel good, Mr. Olòriz, putting flags in schools? Is that okay with you? Is it okay to manipulate children like that? Stealing or making political positions? It doesn't feel right to me, because I believe in secular, republican and the same school for everyone, where it doesn't politicize. [[Mr. Roldán Monés shows a photograph]] [[Applauds]] I'll tell you more. There are a number of multiple complaints that I will not have time to address, but I too am a son of the Catalan school and I have respect for it and that is why I do not want it to become a village, provincial and closed school like the one you are doing in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Can you imagine, Mr. Olòriz, that there was a constitutional flag? Can you imagine that a teacher in Catalonia, in a school in the Gràcia district, put a Spanish pre-constitutional flag? How would you like that? Would that be all right with you? I wouldn't think so and I would do the same speech I'm doing here now, because the children aren't meant to be used politically, Mr. Olòriz. [[Applauds]] Schools, like public television, must have a clear concept that you have forgotten. It's called respect for plurality. Not only are there nationalists in Catalonia, there is a plural and open society that has nothing to do with what you paint in this House. It is unacceptable to force parents to position themselves politically when an illegal referendum is being held and to mark pupils in class by virtue of whether or not they participate in that referendum. That kind of education is sectarian, Mr. Olòriz. Instead of worrying about these kinds of issues, Mr de Esquerra should worry a little bit more about the reality of the Catalan school, particularly those who say they are from Esquerra and also Republicans. Between 2009 and 2015, Catalonia has been the autonomous community in which more cuts have been made in social policies of all the autonomous communities of Spain. [[Applauds]] Why don't you talk about it, Mr. Olòriz? You're just worried about the flag, you're just worried about the flag. Dams. In Catalonia we have more than 20,000 students studying in barracks in eighty-five centers. Is that the success model you like, Mr. Olòriz? Let's talk about school failure. In Catalonia, school failure is twice as high for Spanish speakers as it is for Catalan speakers. Does that seem to you to be a model of successful immersion in Catalonia? [[Applauds]] There are many examples. Here's a PISA chart on the percentage of Spanish-speaking students who don't feel integrated into Catalan school. [[Show a chart]] One in five students in Catalonia does not feel integrated because they are Spanish speaking. If we compare it, for example, with Valencia, which has 12%, I think they have a problem with the nationalist construction of the school they have done. I'm finishing up. I would like Catalonia, like the rest of Spain, to have a first-class educational model, where we could talk about plural values, where we respect those who think differently, where there is a diversity of languages, where there can be education in trilingualism, where there can be a vehicle language that is English and that allows our children to adapt to open society and globalization. Mr Olòriz, it is you who are attacking the Catalan school. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u101	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Mena Arca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u102	Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Mr Roldán, see if the Catalan school is plural that the same educational system has made you and I, who have been educated at that school, one - you - in Citizens and one - I - in Comú Puem. [[Applauds]] Imagine if your lies don't dissolve, Mr. Roldán, like a sugarcane. If two weeks ago I had the People's and Citizens' Party see that a Catalan indoctrinate like me handles the Spanish chorus well, today I remember the one who says, "The thief is believed to be of his condition. I am not talking about the Gürtel case or the Púnica case, but about you, who dream of being able to use educational systems to indoctrinate students in the Spanish State. [[Applauds]] With its policies of division, questioning the Catalan school in an irresponsible way, they put at risk social cohesion in Catalonia for the next forty years. Far from curbing your catalonophobia, you suspend Catalonia's self-government, gag Catalan institutions, imprison the Government of the Generalitat and now go for the Catalan education system. Look, today I want to talk to you as an acting professor of Catalan school more than as a deputy. I warn you that you will not be able with the infinite dignity of a people proud of being plural and of being a land of peace and welcome, educated in the educational model of respect, tolerance and democracy. Do you, gentlemen of the PP and Citizens, know where the dignity of Catalonia is? The dignity of Catalonia is in the classroom of any public school in my country. That's where you find the dignity of Catalonia. Mr. Roldán, I have given classes in prefabricated barracks, with scraps on the wall, with half class without textbooks because the children's families could not afford them, with coats and scarves because the institute could not cope with the payment of heating, with paper on the floor because there was no money for cleaning. Still, in those classrooms there was more dignity than in the entire Government along with a corrupt party. That's where the dignity of Catalonia's educational system lies. [[Applauds]] You tell lies, Mr. Roldán. School failure in Catalonia is not associated with language, it is associated with the socio-economic level of families. [[Applauds]] Bring here proposals to combat inequalities in the classroom. That's what you should do. Inequalities in the classroom promote equal parts of the policies of the PP, Citizens and Convergence. Therefore, Mr Olòriz, from the 21st we will have the opportunity to build a new majority in Catalonia, because we can only win from the social struggles that drive out the ideological cuts of the PP and Convergence. [[Applauds]] In Catalonia, Mr Roldán, there is no language conflict. In his appearance at the Commission, Méndez de Vigo told us that if he lived in Catalonia he would surely speak Catalan, because it is a language he appreciates. The Catalans don't ask you to talk to her. We do not ask the minister to speak Catalan; all we ask is that he respect the Catalan language and that he respect the social consensus of Catalan society. That's what a minister should be doing. My parents, as I told them two weeks ago, have been living in Catalonia for fifty-five years, they don't speak Catalan and no one has ever asked them to speak it. To me the linguistic immersion made me bilingual and today I have the freedom to speak the language I want. [[Applauds]] Without the Catalan educational model I would not have that freedom today and that, Mr Roldán, is what this is about. Therefore, they defend the school as a structure to correct inequalities and stop using it irresponsibly as a bold political weapon, because the Catalan school educates on the values of democracy without looking at the language spoken at home, the flag that each decides to hang on its balcony or the political party to which each family votes. The important thing is not what flag hangs from the balcony of each house, but if those living within that house can pay the rent, they have work and are not evicted at the end of the month. That's what we should be interested in. [[Applauds]] I'm done, President. You, PP and Citizens, of divisions; you, of Article 155 - I also look at the Socialist Parliamentary Group - stop incarcating prisoners for political ideas. As García Márquez said in his novel The bad time, it is not yet too late to build a utopia that allows us to share the land. Otherwise, a hundred years of loneliness awaits you. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u103	For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Cruz Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, some of the speakers who have spoken before me have given even enthusiastic praise to the model of Catalan school and to linguistic immersion, and I will not be the one who disagrees with such praise in my speech. Indeed, how are we going to discuss from my group that Catalan, as a language with less speakers, should continue to enjoy a central position in teaching? How are we going to refuse to continue pampering the Catalan language, to continue considering it as the centre of gravity of the educational system? To sum up, how were we to disagree with a model of Catalan school that - as Mr Olòriz himself in his question the other day had the nobility to recognize, quoting Rosa Sensat or the socialist senator, Marta Mata - we contribute with so much effort to build? But that - let us not call ourselves a deception - is not what is being clarified here today, because the motion that you present, gentlemen of the Republican Left, has nothing to do with the Catalan public school or the linguistic immersion, in fact your motion is the other side of the coin from which you presented Citizens a few weeks ago. They have an identical purpose, extracting political revenue from education. Or do you expect us to believe those who, after applying the fracture of Catalan society so well, as you have done, now come to shed crocodile tears and tell us that you are very concerned about their cohesion? Is there anyone who has tried harder than you to blow her up? [[Applauds]] It is his way of doing politics with which my parliamentary group is in radical disagreement. For us who occupy these seats representing popular sovereignty must be the means at the service of an end, the welfare of the citizens, and not the other way around, they must be the means at the service of the short-term political interests and the changing strategies of their representatives. You certainly trusted, as Mr Tardà said a long time ago and now it has been known, that a severe application of the 155 would come from pearls to exacerbate victimism, and now you are hanging from the brush without any intervention or interference in the schools; hence you have promptly recycled your approach and started talking today about Mr Junqueras' preventive prisons and seven advisers, a matter which is certainly important, but whose connection with this motion is nowhere to be seen. I'll tell you more vertically. If you, gentlemen of Esquerra, cared about Catalan students, you would have behaved differently and would not have come to this House with a motion in which, taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, you used frankly unfortunate statements by Mr Dastis to make as Citizens and to put the school in the political debate. Mr. Olòriz, you opened the poetic fence the other day reading a verse from a poem by Martí i Pol and today you have continued in that line with Mario Benedetti. Since he goes with poetry, he will allow me to evoke only two verses from José Angel Valente, who will agree with me that he is not a minor poet either. They belong to his poem Melancholy, and they simply say this: The worst is to believe / that you are right for having had it. Why do I evoke these verses? Because I remembered them when I heard him thunder emphatically: Catalan school is not touched! And I couldn't stop wondering, are you sure? No way? Not even to improve it? I suppose you will accept the possibility of doing so, because otherwise I will have no choice but to think, Your Honor, that you are a dogmatic and, frankly, did not seem to me so far. I'll tell you what my point is. I understand rather that, precisely because the model of Catalan school has been a model of success, it is necessary, achieved the primary objectives designed decades ago, to examine with professional criteria and not ideological in what can be improved by including in the improvement the question of languages. But you do not have the slightest interest in it, you have not come to talk about education but about your book or, better, about your political libretto. That is why, because they understood that they needed the tension between their own, so they have brought here the alleged defense of the Catalan school and of the language. I'm finishing up. Don't waste your time trying to kill the messenger. Mine has not been the intervention of a Spaniard or a unionist, nor that of a constitutionalist, although I defend the Constitution, not even that of a federalist, although as such I define myself; it has been the intervention of someone who has devoted his whole life to teaching and who is deeply repugnant to the use of such noble activity for such a despicable opportunist purpose. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u105	Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Moneo Díez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not really possible to hear the intervention of the proposing group and its fellow speakers, Mr Mena, without feeling a certain blush. No, ladies and gentlemen, no; you cannot go up to this rostrum to talk to us about consensus, social cohesion and linguistic coexistence, because this only exists in your imagination, in that happy archadia which only enjoy those who are complacent with the politically correct. Dissidents, those who simply want their children to receive an education in freedom, without sectarianism, without indoctrination; an education that allows them to be proud of how much we have built among all, of their language, of their culture, of their land, of their country, are cornered by a system that evidently despises those who resist being abducted by unique thought. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not go up to this rostrum to satanize the educational system in Catalonia, but I do come to denounce all those who have used the weakest, the most innocent, the children, to impose a uniform thought based on lies, insidiousness and confrontation; those who have built a new history, those who have used the tongue to separate rather than to unite; those who have wrapped themselves in the banner of victimism to hide their misery and incompetence. No, Mr de Esquerra, the report of the European Parliament, as your motion says, does not endorse the model of Catalan school as a model of success - again you intend to rewrite history - and does not do so because your actions contradict the recommendations of the report itself. Because you, ladies and gentlemen, are advocates of a model that does not guarantee that it is the parents who choose the official language in which their children are to be educated; because you promote the mistake of one language being promoted at the expense of the rights of the speakers of another; because you do not defend multilingualism, but instead corner the official language of the State in this case rather than ensuring the use of both languages, Catalan and Spanish, at all levels of education. No, ladies and gentlemen, these are not the recommendations of the European Parliament; these are their demands on the education system. And you know why? Because you have forgotten the most important thing, that we are not here to defend the rights of the languages, here we are to defend the rights of the people; rights, ladies and gentlemen, which are run over every day, because when the Catalan school forces all students to do the tests in Catalan without having the option of doing the tests in Spanish - as happens in other autonomous communities with a co-official language - you are undermining the rights of the people; because when you cause the Spanish speaking students to fail in Catalonia twice as much as the students who speak Catalan only because their mother tongue is the Spanish, you are cutting the rights of the students; because when more than 21 % of the Spanish speaking students recognize that they do not feel integrated in school - exactly twice as much as in the rest of the autonomous communities - it is because you are the banners of a profoundly exclusive and segregating educational model. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have been reaffirming yourself for so long in your own lies that you have intended to turn them into truth, and the sad and only truth is that you have broken the principle of institutional loyalty that should preside over the day-to-day life of a country to which the Constitution confers on it the basic rules that guarantee two fundamental rights: the right to education and freedom of education. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dastis, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, did not lie. Mr. Dastis only transmitted the reality described by hundreds of families who have denounced the cut in their linguistic rights, because parents do not report arbitrarily. The more than 340 files processed show that you have deliberately ignored the rulings of the Constitutional Court and trampled on the right of pupils to receive the teaching in Spanish, the official language of the State, also in Catalan, within the framework of an inclusive bilingualism. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, in Catalonia it was intended to make language an instrument of political domination for a purported national construction. Those of us who are bilingual and publicly exercise bilingualism, as is our constitutional right, are considered colonists, even if we have, as is my case, not eight, but more than sixteen Catalan surnames. Evidently these words are not mine. These words were spoken here, in the parliamentary seat, within the framework of the State Pact for Education, Dr Teresa Freixes, Catalan, Professor of Constitutional Law. No, ladies and gentlemen, for her and so many others. We're not going to defend them, nor are we going to tolerate them. We will work to ensure that Catalan pupils have a fundamental right: their freedom. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u107	Thank you very much. - the Joint Parliamentary Group on the general policy of the Government in matters of transport and railway infrastructure, in order to promote competitiveness, growth and the creation of the employment of the Spanish economy. [[LORD MARTÍNEZ OBLANCA]] [[File number 173/000056]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u108	Thank you very much. We continue with the motion of urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the general policy on transport and railway infrastructure to promote the competitiveness, growth and job creation of the Spanish economy. [[Mr. Martínez Oblanca]] For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the question to the Government on railway policy, discussed two weeks ago, I highlighted the need to promote the full integration of Spain's railways into Europe with the aim of implementing Article 100.1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which mandates a common transport policy that preserves competition and guarantees the freedom to provide services, and which requires the harmonisation of administrative and safety technical standards. A gradual harmonisation of these requirements is essential in order to achieve the interoperability of the different national rail systems. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible in Spain to comply with this article without removing the existing physical and technological barriers, the main exponent of which is the difference in track width in corridors that are not part of the high-speed network. To that end, I have tabled the motion which I have the honour to defend from the rostrum, to which various groups have tabled several amendments which I would in some cases accept in part, although rejecting those made by the Socialist Group, which did everything to change my point first, has made it impossible to draw up a compromise text with amendments from the Group of the European People's Party. I will not refer to the Citizens' amendment, which shows that they have not understood the meaning of this inquiry and of the consequent motion. However, I would like to dwell on the amendments tabled in particular. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u110	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u111	... by the People's Group which I ask you to withdraw, because part of its content discredits the European content, the European commitment and the railway prestige of the government to which this group claims to support. I explain it to you in reverse order following the foundation of the three points of the motion. Third point: Forum urges the government to present to Congress before 31 December 2017 Renfe's new plan to acquire rolling stock, whose completion announced the Minister of Development himself in the course of the inquiry before the end of the year, enclosing this plan above EUR 1500 million, with specific reference to the specific plan for Renfe Mercancias. What now comes an amendment to request that it be delayed to 31 January 2018? Didn't the minister tell the truth? Don't you want Congress to get that information from Renfe's plan as soon as possible? We do. In the second point Forum also urges the Government to raise a detailed report to the Congress of Deputies within three months on the state of compliance with the European directives of the four approved railway packages, both those relating to passengers and goods, for the opening to competition of the Spanish railway, reflecting in detail their transposition, as well as the measures taken to implement them and the concrete results of their implementation. The People's Group comes from cuts, extends the deadline to six months and limits its proposal to the Government reporting only on the fourth. - It is a fourth recently approved package for opening up the Spanish railway to competition. For us it is essential to know the degree of compliance of the three previous railway packages and we do not endorse the distrust of the Government. Do you assume that the government does not know the degree of compliance with directives seven years or more old? In relation to the first point, Forum calls on the Government to forward to Congress within six months a plan for the complete adaptation of the Spanish rail network to the UIC standard track width, in order to promote the definitive removal of technological and physical barriers with Europe and to promote full integration with the European Union. In return, the Popular Group wants to replace the plan by strategy, in a game with language, camouflaging itself in an evanescent semantics that contrasts with my party's irrefutable commitment, reflected today in this motion, to represent Spain's great ambition for its full integration into Europe. We also believe that the plan should include a report on the current state of the network's transformation, detailing the railway corridors that already have a UIC width and those in which projects or works have been approved and/or are currently being carried out for this purpose. The People's Group proposes to continue working on the strategy set out in the Pitvi 2012-2024 for the change of UIC standard track, but they cannot continue what they have not yet begun; they have not even raised it, as demonstrated by the Minister of Development's avoidance of referring to this commitment during his first and extensive appearance at the General Courts on 19 December. If not, why were they putting Iberian wide lanes in March of this year in a corridor again traced, as is the variant of Pajares, in breach of all existing European rules? It had to be the president of the government, Mariano Rajoy, who decided to rectify this wrong decision. Can you quote from me any other engagement of the Pitvi other than the reflection of its page II.153: is it appropriate to consider the transformation of width from the borders in order to gradually remove the barrier that the current load rupture entails? If this is the strategy set out in the Pitvi, I politely recommend that you deposit it in the trash. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the proposals in our motion are, in addition to a national need to avoid the creation and consolidation of two railway Spains, an obligation as a member country of the European Union and to ensure that part of Spain does not remain outside the single railway area called for by Directive 2012/34/EU of 21 December 2012, i.e. to encourage the development of an effective railway infrastructure, to establish a rail market based on an integrated infrastructure network and interoperable equipment that will enable efficient transport services to be provided in neighbouring countries and throughout Europe; also to remove administrative and technical obstacles and, finally, to ensure a level playing field with very positive effects on economic growth and job creation, our main economic and political priority. I conclude, Madam President. We do not allow Spain to fall short of our European convergence. We want to put a definitive end to the existence in Spain of two economic spaces as a consequence of having different systems of railway communications: Spain that progresses in standard width UIC and Spain that loses the opportunity of progress with the perpetuation of Iberian width. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u112	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Navarro Fernández-Rodríguez is speaking on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Asturias Forum brings us today a motion with a rather dramatic hue in which it tells us, first of all, that if we want to achieve full rail integration with Europe, we have to lift our entire road network in Iberian width and put it back in UIC width, no less. Secondly, that otherwise - it has reiterated not only in its motion, but now in its intervention - we risk creating a Spain of double speed and with dual economic development. And, in the light of Directive 2012/34 of the European Union, if that were not enough, we are practically out of the law. Well, there doesn't seem to be much to go on, actually. The European Union Transport Roadmap marks the White Paper of March 2011 and indeed establishes the need for a single transport area. But there are deadlines. For what is the basic network, which is that of the runners - in Spain the Mediterranean corridor and the Atlantic corridor - gives up to 2030, but for the global network it gives up to 2050. In addition, looking at the basic legislation on the matter, the Regulation on the development of the trans-European transport network expressly provides for exemptions. Directive 2008/57 on interoperability expressly recommends progressive implementation and, more clearly, the Regulation on technical specifications for interoperability is not to include Iberian width, but to include five different widths for Europe. In short, of course, adaptation must be made, but it must be progressive. We cannot now afford an absolutely intractable investment which would also have very serious adverse effects. For example, it would be very difficult right now for freight trains to travel through that wide UIC. Right now there is a technology in motion - OGI technology - that allows to change the width to two lanes, but it is in tests, it is not yet tested; and even when approved it has a cost and has problems: it increases the weight of the goods and increases the costs of maintenance. Why then is this motion? For you have made this clear to us; it is related to an initiative of yours concerning the variant of Birds. Let us remember that the variant comes to solve the problem of the port, those forty-three kilometers of very hard slopes and very closed curves that make it take more than an hour, in the case of travelers, and almost two hours in the case of goods for its forty-three kilometers. In addition, it limits the length of the trains and is also saturated. Therefore, the variant of Pajares comes to solve this problem, drastically reduces travel times - from more than an hour passes to twelve minutes for travelers and almost two hours of goods to forty-five minutes -, moreover triples the capacity of the line and allows, in short, to open the plateau to Asturias and Asturias to the Meseta and to provide a great opportunity for growth. Well, Forum changed the original project, which, let us recall, was an Iberian bridge and wide to double tunnel from the beginning and wide UIC, and this requirement was accepted by the Government. Moreover, from the moment it was raised, the Government suddenly found all sorts of reasons to find it very reasonable. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the eternal problem of the Ministry of Development, the submission of investment decisions to non-technical criteria, not of social utility, but of electoral value. Surprisingly, Forum seemed to understand that the new layout favored its electoral interests; and I say surprisingly because technically everyone has discouraged it. Firstly, because it delays the completion of the works; secondly, because it creates an island of width UIC that would force to install a third lane between León and La Robla but, above all, because it would force the goods to follow through the port, with which it would force to adapt the port and continue with the annual maintenance so expensive that it entails. We have no problem at point two and three that you have told us, and we agree that before three months we will be presented with a report on the degree of compliance with the four packages and before 31 December we will be presented with the new Renfe plan. But, of course, we do not think we should support a first point which, as I say, is not only foolish, it would not only require an absolutely intractable investment but would also cause very serious side effects. All this, as I say, for a decision not motivated either by technical criteria or by criteria of social utility, but only derived from the electoral arithmetic that was favorable to him at the time of negotiating the budgets. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u114	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Pascual Peña has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing here today with a motion to urge the government to take urgent measures in the area of railways, and in doing so we are talking about the right to mobility, a right that supports other rights. [[The Lord]] Allow me to invite you on a train trip to the province of choice of Mr Hernando - who is not here now - which is Almería. To do so we would have to think carefully about the timetables because if we go to the station very soon we may encounter a wait of between two and four hours at the station, which suffers many of the mid-distance users. Once on the train, get comfortable and choose a good book because the trip will take six and a half hours. The dramatic thing is that those six-and-a-half hours are an hour and thirty-eight minutes longer than it took that same train in 2003. In Spain the transport of the majority takes more than fifteen years today, ladies and gentlemen. One last recommendation, hold tight because the driver is going to be forced to make 152 speed changes forced by the deterioration and abandonment of the railway lines. The same deterioration and abandonment is experienced by the more than 420 million users of the network of proximity and half distance when every day they have to go to work not in an AVE, but in a proximity or half distance, or go to school or hospital. That is the same deterioration that the citizens of the vicinity of Madrid found yesterday when they had to jump to the tracks, in a image more peculiar to Mogadishu or the 19th century and not the European railway network of the 21st century. [[Show a picture]] They are the same faults that FEVE users find in Cantabria or Asturias, who do not know when their train will pass, or the problems with the arrival times of the trains found by users of Eastern Andalusia or Extremadura. Do you know why this is happening? Because the number of workers per train and kilometre in conventional services is half the European average, ladies and gentlemen, because the average subsidy per passenger and kilometre is three times lower than the European average in the conventional network, and because you have consistently decided to invest between five and ten times more at high speed than in the conventional network. To make it clear; one euro in each user of proximity for every hundred euros in each user of the high speed network. Ladies and gentlemen, you are abandoning the conventional network because you are allergic to public services. That is why Mr Montoro is now saying that we must cut down inefficient lines and replace them with buses. I warn you, the platforms in defense of the railway are going to slow it down. Faced with its census model, classic and ineffective, we believe and want a network that guarantees the right to mobility and transport as a fundamental democratic right of citizenship. For this we make very concrete proposals. Firstly, we call for an increase in the amount of Renfe's programme contract to at least increase Renfe's public service obligations by 10%. It is not worth us putting 226 million in Renfe Operadora, and then, in a sort of financial trilerism, to take it by canon to ADIF. Secondly, we urge you to plan and design our network with intermodality criteria and with integrated timetables, as do the networks of Germany, Holland or Switzerland. Only in this way will we be able to meet our commitments to the White Paper on European Transport and the reduction of emissions. Thirdly, we want to achieve the modal shift commitment of 50% of road traffic to the railways. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, above all we want a network that will allow us to vertebrate our territory. You are filled with the word Spain, but it turns out that Spain is also the millions of users who are going to be left without travelling through your country if you manage to dismantle the railway lines, as you try to do. [[Applauds]] I cannot finish this intervention without reminding the victims of the landslides. It is as simple as amending article 3 of Royal Decree 623/2014, which regulates the investigation of railway accidents and incidents, to incorporate them and thus can be investigated. Too many lives have been lost in our country because of this situation. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. I have intervened in this House not too long ago telling you that it was time for the fox to stop caring for the chickens and, Mr Ayala, a Member of yours, was very angry; it is the same gentleman that you now have at the head of the Anti-Corruption Office after giving AENA two concessions to your company, the casinos of Alicante and Malaga. I remind you today and I repeat today that the fox must stop taking care of the chickens. I say this because you are headed by ADIF, a public company with a budget of more than 3000 million euros, to Mr Juan Bravo, the compadre of Alberto Ruiz-Gallardón, to whom the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office denounces for its responsibility in the collapse of 70 million euros in the Canal de Isabel II. Gentlemen of the People's Party, you can complain as much as you like. We're going to keep pointing at them every time they put a defendant at the head of a public enterprise. We're going to keep blaming your minister every time you skip the laws to the bullfighter, and we're going to keep asking for more and better public services. There's no doubt about it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Pascual. Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u117	Thank you, President. Surely most of us here have heard of an urban legend saying that politics, or politicians, are often far from the problems of citizens and that what we are discussing in Parliament has nothing to do with their priorities. Today I tried to do an experiment and see if that was in line with the initiative that had been presented by the Member of the Foro Asturias and I must say that he has complied with it in rajatabla. I asked the citizens here what they thought were the priorities for the Spanish railway system and what topics we had to talk about today and people said very simple things: the criteria of vertebration of Spain, the reopening of certain lines that were closed long ago, the empowerment of the conventional train, solution of the symmetry of the Spanish networks, electrification of the lines that are not electrified, prices and accessibility and, obviously, a worthy train for Extremadura, as we have been claiming for a long time and we will do on November 18 here in Madrid, all the extremists. I have to admit that I was surprised by the initiative put forward by Martínez Oblanca because he usually acts as the second spokesman of the People's Party and today has criticized the People's Party, he has criticized the Minister for Development and I do not know if this is going to sit very well with Mr Barrachina whom, when things are bad for him, we know in this Parliament how he brings them. I hope it does not create a conflict between Foro Asturias and the People's Party, but I recognize that I have missed the intervention of Martínez Oblanca, because his initiative of the one thing he speaks about here is of Iberian width and of international width. But you ask the majority of Members what the consequences are and the majority do not know what to answer, whether it is good or bad for the citizens or whether it is going to improve the service given to the Spaniards. The second point noted by Mr Martínez Oblanca in his initiative is the liberalisation of the train. Will the fact that Spain changes all the Iberian width that exists at international level solve the problem of citizens? Obviously, no; on the contrary, it can aggravate it. Does Mr Martínez Oblanca know what cost it is for the public coffers to change all the routes of the conventional Iberian wide to international wide? It is a question that needs to be asked. The Socialist Group has tabled an amendment because we believe that, once we are here, we need to prepare for the initiatives and we need to do so knowing the consequences of the things we are asking for. And I am going to say what the priorities of the Socialist Party are on the issue of railways, something that we have also said many times and that we will continue to repeat: territorial cohesion and equal opportunities for all citizens. That has not been discussed here today, nor has it been put on the table by Mr Martínez Oblanca. In addition, we believe that there are regions that continue without high speed - Galicia, Asturias, Navarre, the Basque Country and Extremadura - and we believe that this must be solved. We also see that there are cities like Granada, which has been disconnected from the railway for a thousand days, and that has not been discussed here either and we are talking about the Spanish rail system. [[Applauds]] In addition, we know and have seen from the media how Murcia is literally broken by the train, broken by the train, and Mr Martínez Oblanca has not spoken of that either. We believe that it is essential to think that the priority corridors that have been marked by Europe, the Atlantic and the Mediterranean must be developed, and Mr Martínez Oblanca has not spoken about this either. These are the priorities of the Socialist Party. The Government has to push forward the two priority corridors that exist and the corresponding branches, because that is what will ensure territorial cohesion and that we can all be more competitive in the companies that are located in each of the regions that are part of the State. That is why we have tabled an amendment which seeks to improve the initiative put forward by Foro Asturias, which we believe is very lame, which we believe is based on an obsession and lack of awareness by Mr Martínez Oblanca of the consequences for Asturias - for which he is a Member - of changing the Iberian width, with which the variant of Pajares will be put into operation, to the international width. Ask the freight companies and they will tell you, as they have told the minister, that it is going to cause a problem, and that many of the goods that circulate daily or could circulate there will not be able to do so if you do what Mr Martínez Oblanca asks. We believe that we need to be more serious, we believe that we need to remove the obsessions that Foro Asturias can have for the president he had and for the responsibilities he had. Changing the whole conventional line with Iberian width for international width is an authentic madness, it is a waste, it does not solve the problems, it does not represent any improvement for the service, but quite the contrary. That is why, Mr Martínez Oblanca, we have amended the whole point first, because we believe it to be a misconception. We think that today we have to talk - and that is why we have done so - about the problems and priorities of the Spanish rail system. I recognise that it has been a shame for me to have to debate, as we are going to do here today, whether Iberian wide or international wide, because if the citizens see this debate, they will say that this is not of interest to them, that this is not their priority, that this is not their concern, that they want to have a rail transport that guarantees them that they are citizens of the first instance, regardless of where they live. These are the priorities of the Spanish, these are the priorities of the Socialist Party and these should be the priorities of the whole House. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramos. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Barrachina Ros has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President, and good afternoon. Thank you, Mr Martínez Oblanca, for giving us the opportunity to discuss the Spanish rail system. I also thank him for the vehemence with which he does it. I understand that with a liberal view and coming from the land of Don Pelayo, you manifest yourself as you do, and I thank you. You know, Mr Isidro, that I share much of the text that you have put forward today and, in fact, we agree both on the extension of our rail system to the European width and on the opening up to private competition, and on the raising of the quotas for goods transiting the rail. Not so, as you well know - and that is why we have amended it - with the literality proposed by the universal and integral transformation of the 16,000 kilometres of railway network of neighbourhoods and goods at high speed. I do not share what I have heard, to some of the spokesmen who described the Spanish railway system as their own in the 19th century, to leave neighbours with dismantled trains, because in the end they distort the Spanish reality, and when one dives and observes how Spain is found in the international arena, he discovers that a Spaniard can travel from Seville to Barcelona - it is 840 kilometers - without a transshipment by high European speed, and that means that Spain is today the first nation in the world in kilometers per inhabitant at high speed and that there are more than 450 million travellers who enjoy the whole of our railway network. After hearing the catastrophic message from one of the left groups, one is surprised when he discovers that it is the World Economic Forum that says that Spain, from among the fifty European countries - the fifty, not twenty-seven of the Union - is the first country in railway quality for safety, punctuality, comfort and speed. And being the first in Europe and the fourths of the world, it is surprising that there are parliamentarians who claim to represent Spain who speak of trains of the nineteenth century. And I'm not just talking about the superstructure of our roads, I'm also talking about the management system, about the system that allows the integrated European rail traffic system that says that only Spain already has 1800 kilometres and that the next European country with this integrated technological instrument system, which is France, instead of 1800, enjoys 500 kilometres. Therefore, we are not in the country that has everything but in the country that goes first in the implementation of the European width, and that is why we should be moderately proud that neighbours of Valencia, Alicante, Madrid, Zaragoza, Barcelona, Valladolid or Zamora, and soon of my city, Castellón, can enjoy the high speed that countries such as the United States, Canada and others of the same size lack. That is why we have amended this text and why we believe that we should continue in the right direction. It is unthinkable that instead of 3000 kilometers of high speed we have a magic wand that turns them into 16,000. In fact, you know that we are making a huge economic effort; what this Spanish government, with 4400 million, is dedicating to the railway is twice as much as we are devoting to roads and four times as much as we are devoting to ports or airports, even ten times more - despite the huge increase - than we are devoting to housing policy. To want to multiply our high-speed plant by five at this time does not seem, Mr Martínez Oblanca, most reasonable, although - I insist - we will ask you for a separate vote to support your second and third points, and we also share a good part of the music of the first although not the letter in its literality. We have passed through this opening to competition from 14 to 36 % of freight trains with private operators. I in my village, in Segorbe, have seen trains full of vehicles from Zaragoza to the port of Sagunto, the port of Valencia, transiting for a few weeks, by the investment - as you well know - of 1400 million euros to make the twenty-eight ports of Spain trasable and accessible by rail. Spain is therefore undoubtedly the most advanced country in this area. Let me conclude by thanking you for your initiative, you know that we have made every effort, and let me say that I am moderately proud of the efforts of all the political parties that have ruled Spain for transforming what some call the nineteenth railway and turning Spain into the first European country and the first country in the world into miles of high speed per inhabitant. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u120	Thank you very much, Mr Barrachina. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor on behalf of the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was going to make another initial speech, but, Mr Barrachina, every time you speak, the price of bread rises, because it is true that the railway reality in Spain is what it is, but I imagine that our European partners will not be too happy when the Mediterranean axis has not yet been completed and when the Atlantic axis is still not connected, even though the Structural Funds have largely financed these facilities. But that is not the object in principle of my speech, but that was the motion by Mr Martínez Oblanca, on which I am not going to insist too much on his demands because, as other Members have also pointed out, we can share much of his arguments for the necessary adaptation of the railway network to situations that allow its interoperability with the European railway area. Nor will I do so with the information requirements that it makes, referred to in the second and third points, since as a party and as a group we have always set our preference in the railway field in the need for its fitting into the trans-European networks, which must be established as a principle or guide for planning and decision-making on new infrastructures and improving existing ones. This pretension starts with the establishment of two basic transpyrenaic corridors for both travellers and goods: the Atlantic corridor and the Mediterranean corridor and, as the motion points out, such a pretension must fit with a temporary development of the environment. And we add that in both corridors, in the Atlantic and in the Mediterranean, in line with European forecasts and requirements. We therefore agree with this, although in our view the issue does not lie in those desirable elements of the railway system, Mr Isidro, but - and that is the glue I am going to put to it - in the priorities. In this sense it gives the impression that the motion focuses on the issue of the broad UIC which, as has already been mentioned, is questionable not so much for its object, its necessity, its preference or its vocation, but for its priority. It leaves for another time the debate on the transport of passengers, which it considers partly covered through the high-speed network and which has been developing for years, and strengthens its position in the field of goods with which we of course fully agree. However, and for the sake of a small limitation, I would say that the proximity networks, which have been partly taken over by the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, are being left out of the consideration of such a passenger transport network, and that we intend to improve and strengthen them through the assumption of their competence, as provided for in Article 10.32 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country. Moreover, not only in the area of the narrow road, but also in the conventional width, since today the transit measure that runs through our territory has become a main axis of communication of our citizens and of the development of the territory, which is why, again and again, and again here, we call for its transfer to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. For its part, the motion argues, and we also agree with it, the need to strengthen the scope of goods traffic and its interoperability, precisely as an argument for promoting competitiveness, growth and job creation. We would agree on all that, but that is not the issue, but the priorities. In conclusion, we particularly agree with the motion in the second and third paragraphs on the information it requests, but we believe that it points to a desirable but non-priority objective in respect of the first, where progress must be made gradually. That is why I will end by pointing out that we are once again calling for the possibility of managing a Basque rail system from Euskadi which is compatible with the general interest network of the State and which is responsible for the comprehensive management of Basque railway infrastructure. And a note - let me remind myself - of precisely a political leader who would make the same claim on this issue in relation to his territory if for his ideals he had not been arrested a few days ago. In memory of Josep Rull, Territorial Advisor and Sustainability of the Generalitat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u122	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. In the turn of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, I ask Mr Martínez Oblanca whether his group accepts any.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u123	Thank you very much, Mr President. I do not accept any, and I take this opportunity to thank Mr Barrachina for his statement and to ask the Presidency to vote on the motion by points.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u124	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca, we will take this into account for the vote. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the Government's policy on prevention and combating forest fires. [[File number 173/000057]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u125	We move on to the next item on the agenda, the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on government policy on forest fire prevention and control. Ms. Cancela Rodríguez has the floor for the initiative and for the defence of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The fire wave of the month of October, in particular from 13 to 16, in Asturias, Castile and León and above all Galicia has been the biggest forest disaster in recent years; if we translate it into objective data, it is devastating. It has been 49,200 hectares of land burned that weekend in Galicia which, together with 11,500 hectares of land burned the rest of the year, makes a total of 61,000 hectares, accounting for almost 33% of the total area burned in Spain. To this we have to add four mortal victims. In Asturias, more than 13,000 hectares burned and in León, more than 2500 hectares. In addition to countless damage and material losses, as well as the desolating baggage of environmental protected areas destroyed by fire. This shocking result indicates that the preventive policy is ineffective and insufficient and that the extinguishing policy is deficient, since in the end the definitive extinguishing element has been rain, in particular Ofelia. We therefore lack an inclusive national fire strategy with adequate resources and effective preventive policies, and the rural development strategy must be restored by implementing the Rural Development Act and the Montes Act. The factors affecting the fire risk situation are multiple, as many must also be the political lines of action to prevent the reoccurrence of the arson catastrophe that we have just experienced. For example, abandonment of the rural environment and the mountains and hence depopulation; disuse or misuse of land; planting of certain species and their location; termination of contracts of brigadists before referring the incendiary risk; uncoordination between extinction operations; urban-forestry interface; non-compliance with the ban on burning soil construction under the Mounts Act; failure to respect minimum planting distances with built-up areas or the inexcusable fact that climate change is a reality and has come to stay. The risk becomes damage and the damage is sometimes irreparable. Let us change the circumstances that produce it, improve preventive policy and articulate a coordinated and effective extinguishing policy with sufficient resources in both cases. Ladies and gentlemen, this parliamentary group is pro-active and constructive. We do not lead demonstrations seeking immediate political profitability or say such unfortunate phrases as that of 'with us there are no dead', but we put forward proposals on a twofold front: to help those who have suffered economic losses from the action of fire and to promote the socio-economic and environmental recovery of the affected areas, and to move on to political action by proposing measures that change the state of things and prevent the same from happening again. This motion includes two separate paragraphs. One concerns aid, such as promoting the activation of the European Union Solidarity Fund in relation to the Autonomous Communities of Galicia, Asturias and Castile and León - in particular, León - and proceeding, as provided for in the Law on the National Civil Protection System, to the declaration of an area seriously affected by an emergency of civil protection in relation to the territories concerned, applying the measures provided for in Article 24 of the said norm. With regard to legislative measures and immediate political action, we propose to provide budgetary resources for the Sustainable Rural Development Act in order to allocate real investments to address the process of deterioration and depopulation that is suffering from a lack of opportunities for its development, resulting from the abandonment and scarce use of forests and mountains in the area in which we are concerned, with the consequent risk of the relevant fires. We also want to promote before the end of the next session the amendment of the Montes Act in order to include, in relation to forestry, the promotion of the economic sustainability of grassland forestry with a preference for extensive livestock farming and biomass use for energy purposes and to ensure its compatibility with agro-environmental requirements and aspects of environmental conservation, fire prevention and habitat maintenance. We must set up two working groups with respect to the constitutional distribution of powers to draw up basic statutes for firefighters and forest agents. The fight against forest fires also includes labour rights. Neither seasonality nor precariousness, but continuous training and decent wages. Coordination between administrations should be improved in agreement with the autonomous communities, guidelines and basic criteria should be established to define areas particularly sensitive to fire risk, to encourage within the Committee to combat forest fires to carry out campaigns for the clearing and cleaning of systematic mountains in areas of high fire risk, and to establish, on a cross-cutting basis and under the coordination of the Vice-President, a working table and coordination to implement multidisciplinary measures in relation to land management in forestry, fire control and rural depopulation. Finally, within the future draft law on climate change and energy transition, a predominant role must be given to the management of forest masses, promoting an appropriate regulatory framework to ensure the prevention of deforestation and management of forest natural spaces, avoiding overexploitation of resources and stressing that compensation measures should be directed towards restoring the most degraded areas. According to the European Commission, ladies and gentlemen, if we exceed 2 degrees the fire season will be twice as long before the end of this century and the burned area will be 20% larger than the current one. The impact will be devastating. Whether we continue to do the same or not, we will continue to achieve the same results. That it is not the courageous citizens who exercise a counterfire, that it is the effective political action that prevents it from happening again. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u127	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cancela. In defence of the amendments put forward by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United People's Party, Mr Gómez Reino Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u128	Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Obviously, from our parliamentary group we will push for this motion to come forward. Everything that has to do with turning forest policy around, everything that has to do with putting rural development at the centre, and everything that has to do with taking real action to end fires, is at the heart of our legislative activity. Our group has been working for a long time from the realization that the future of our mountains is a challenge for society as a whole. In fact, since the beginning of this parliamentary term we have presented many initiatives in this regard: oral questions in plenary; we have presented initiatives to try to bring forward the Rural Development Act, on the working conditions of the brigades, on the requalification of calcined land, on the expansion of eucalyptus and monoculture of pyrophyte species, and today we have presented a proposal for a law on the Montes Act, which, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, we hope will not be vetoed by the Government. We do so because we are aware that we need comprehensive action to address the problem of root fires. You can't put patches on to calm your consciences in an emergency. The problem is fundamental and, therefore, the solutions must be equally profound and addressing the real causes. But what is the real picture of what is happening today with forestry policy and fires in this country? First, there is a disturbing increase in large forest fires. It is growing both in number and in size and already accounted for 50% of the calcined area in 2016. On the other hand, climate change brings us more complex, virulent and destructive fires. There are high temperatures in spring and autumn and our systems and plans of extinction have not incorporated either the temporality or the new mode of fires we face. Forest expenditure is misguided, with almost 70% going into the extinction budget. There is a total absence of policy for conservation, planning, management and sustainable management of mountains. Today only 12% of the forest area is subject to a management project or a technical management plan. It seems a lie to have to be clarified, but it's not the same as a forest plantation. We cannot confuse forests with forest monocultures, which have colonized much of what used to be agricultural and livestock land. And it must also be said that large fires occur mostly precisely in these restockings or forest crops, while they hardly occur in indigenous or natural forests. Finally, on the depopulation and abandonment of the rural world, I will give you a figure: more than half of the municipalities affected by the fires in October have suffered a 50% loss of population in recent years. There is a direct relationship between population loss and forest fires. And the precariousness of our prevention and extinction services. In rural areas - everyone knows it - fires go out in winter: prevention, prevention and prevention, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] It is precisely in order to give more substance to this motion that we have tabled three amendments. I'll explain them to you quickly. Firstly, we must limit the expansion of forest plantations with monoculture of pyrophyte species. Secondly, we must protect and take care of our fire prevention and fire-extinguishing services; they must be considered public services, they must be directly managed by public administrations, and they must therefore be provided by public personnel and employees. And finally, a forest plan needs to be updated by starting the way for a determined implementation of planning and management tools. For this, we have our hands and for this they will have us to the rest of the groups in the House, they will have us to adopt clear measures to combat climate change, they will find us to adopt measures to ensure that our extinction services work in the conditions they deserve and that we deserve, they will find us to adopt measures that signify a courageous forest policy that attacks, among other things, the problem of the monoculture of pyrophyte species, and they will find us at the end of a model change in forest policy. For this they will find us and this will also be what we will do when we govern this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Denial]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u130	Thank you. I speak very briefly from the bench to say that the forest fires that have taken place in Galicia, in the north of Castile and León, and so on, have been very serious, that it has been a tremendous situation that has been experienced, but before this thesis I do not know whether the motion put forward by the Socialist Group is the best. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u131	Wait a minute, Mr. Agirretxea. I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen, please. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u132	He said that, given the gravity of the situation, I do not know whether the best solution is the motion put forward by the Socialist Group, although it contains criteria that we can share, and we believe that it is necessary to activate specific policies on forests, on mountains, on climate change, etc., since there are a number of questions concerning precisely the competences of the autonomous communities in this area and we do not see very clearly what the intention of certain points in this motion is, my group is going to abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u133	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cantó García del Moral has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u134	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to say to all those who have come up here today and have said that in 21st-century Spain there are people imprisoned for their ideas, to all those who today have ties supporting the idea that in 21st-century Spain there are people imprisoned for their ideas, that they have already extended the list and claim, for example, the idea of Jordi Pujol junior, who is also imprisoned for his ideas, for the idea of stealing, for the idea of charging commissions, for the idea of embezzlement; that they include Mr. Ignacio González, of the People's Party, who is also imprisoned for the idea of breaking the Isabel II Canal; or Mr. Miguel Bernad, of Manos Limpias, who is arrested for extortion. [[Applauds]] And I want to remind especially two groups, not the secessionists, that at the end of the day I understand a little that phrase that applied to Noriega, that he is a thief, but he is our thief, to the Lords of Podemos, that the people who are right now in jail and that you say that they are there for their ideas, not only are they in jail for jumping the Constitution and the statut d'autonomia, for closing the Parliament, for silence the opposition and for wanting to throw more than half Catalonia from Spain, Europe and the euro - they are not only in jail for that - but they are also in jail for misappropriating public flows,...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u135	Mr. Singing, please stick to the matter.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u136	... for devoting social policy money to paying multinationals to create a public fortune, gentlemen of Podemos. [[Applause. - Several Members say words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u137	Mr Cantó, I warn you for the second time that you must stick to the issue under discussion.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u138	That's how I'll do it. I want to dedicate, first of all, a special memory on the part of Citizens to all those people who have been victims of the fires in our country. I want to dedicate a memory not only to those who lost their lives, but also to those who lost their property, and I also want to dedicate a very affectionate memory to all those who risk their lives to protect us, to protect our ecosystem and to protect the ecosystem of neighbouring countries, such as Portugal. We are going to vote in favour of this GNP that the Socialist Party is bringing to us today, and I hope that we can get it going together. We presented a very similar one months ago - I remembered very much what they were saying to ours today - the People's Party saw how it was approved with their support - they abstained - and with the support of virtually all the parties represented on the Commission and, unfortunately, the Government has done nothing. In that GNP we basically called for more prevention work with several key tools. One had to do with agriculture and mountain livestock; another had to do with the exploitation of all that biomass in small thermal power plants that would be installed in the villages, in rural Spain, and that could provide heat and energy to sportsmen, schools and municipalities. We counted that the use of that biomass could reach the equivalent of more than 400 000 tonnes of oil, and we recalled that that was very important to further progress in the economic exploitation of forests. It must be remembered that the forests that give money do not burn. There is an amendment by Podemos that I do not particularly agree with and which has to do with the criminalization of certain species. I want to remind you that there are thousands and thousands of families in Galicia who live thanks to the forest exploitation of the eucalyptus. I find it dangerous to criminalize something that generates so many jobs and I would like to remind you that many times these are the forests that do not burn, those from which we can derive an economic benefit. [[Applauds]] We also told the minister that it is in winter - as you said - when the fires go out, removing biomass, cleaning, creating new firewalls. We told the minister and the PP that yes, that it is very good, that a soft drone, that it looks very good in the photo, but often a goat is more effective than a drone, let us hope that one day of these will listen to us. We remind you that we must let the technicians work and please also move away from the temptation to use a drama like this for political purposes. There are representatives of his political force who with the flames still in Galicia said true barbarities through the networks. In this sense, I want to remind you that we are European power, but sometimes we are European power without doing anything and letting things grow without any meaning. There are some governments who point out that we have more and more trees, or more mass, or more forests; they point to success when this is only a response to a rural abandonment that should be of concern to us and which also causes a drama and a problem for the form of growth and for such abandonment. I want to say quickly that virtually everything you have done has already been done. We have asked the Government, we have presented two GNPs on the Sustainable Development Act, my colleague Miguel Garaulet has done an impressive job recalling the importance of repopulating the rural world. Finally, we also - I think it is important to point out - welcome the PSOE with the coordination of actions. You are often very frightened about this subject and sometimes you jump like the nationalists, who when it comes to coordination it seems that you are lying to the devil and forget that in this you have to think big and remember that the environment does not understand borders. Ladies and gentlemen, I am running out of time, so I just want to remind you that the future is going on. In conclusion, I would like to recall a film based on a book that seemed absolutely brutal to me and that has an ending that seems poetically bestial to me: Cormac McCarthy's road. After an entire book in which there is nothing but shit, dirt, darkness, black and grey, Cormac McCarthy says: 'Once there were trout in the mountain streams. You could see them in the ambarine current, where the white edges of their fins waved softly in the water. They smelled like moss in their hands, they twisted brownish and muscular. On his loins there were vermiform drawings that were maps of the world in its becoming, maps and labyrinths of a thing that had no backsliding or possibility of settlement. In the deep canyons where everything lived was older than man and murmured mystery.' Ladies and gentlemen, there is still a possibility of settlement...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u139	Finish, Mr. Cantó.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u140	...so let's do something at once. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u141	Mr Viso Diéguez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u142	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by conveying my grief to those affected by the forest fires this October in north-eastern Spain and in neighbouring Portugal and, of course, especially to the families who lost their loved ones. As a Galician and neighbour of some of the affected areas, I especially share his pain. I would also like to convey our appreciation and affection to the thousands of people and professionals who worked during these months in the extinction of fires, playing their lives and fighting tirelessly against this scourge of forest fires, as well as to the neighbours for their collaboration. [[Applauds]] I also take the opportunity to appeal to society so that it cooperates with justice and so those who provoke fires intentionally and dolo do not go unpunished, because it is worth remembering here what society has denounced, and it is that, ladies and gentlemen, in October the mountain did not burn: they burned the mountain. That cooperation of all, that joint awareness of fires should also apply in this House. Today the Socialist Group is bringing us a motion on the government's policy on forest fire prevention and control. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by talking about the European Solidarity Fund. This Government is acting: it is working on the assessment and quantification of damage to forest ecosystems, as well as to the autonomous communities and municipalities; it is also following the evolution of damage to have all the information available and to take the necessary measures to proceed with the declaration of emergency of civil protection. Ladies and gentlemen, this Government continues to work, both in the strategy of rural modernisation and diversification in the context of the fight against demographic challenges and depopulation, and in favour of the forestry sector: the example of eighty-five measures under way in the 2014-2020 programme is enough. In this case, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, you cannot give lessons in the implementation of the Rural Development Act. You know perfectly well that she was already born with deficiencies and you yourself made cuts in her in 2010. The Government, on the contrary, contributes to the prevention of fires: it contributes, among other things, to the state financing of rural development programmes of the autonomous communities, allocating EUR 2 billion to the 2014-2020 programme, and 44% of these EUR 2 billion is for prevention. That is a reality of the People's Party. Prevention also includes thinking about climate change, of course. There we do agree: we will continue to work on climate change, but it is this Government that is working on the future climate change and energy transition bill. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are also talking about the Law on Mountains and Shepherding. You should know it's regulated by autonomies. Lords of Podemos, changes in use - forest, shrub grass, wooded grass - were improved to reach the pasture; therefore, they should also know. They should also know that our legal system reserves to the Autonomous Communities exclusive competence in the matter of basic statutes for firefighters and forest agents. Ladies and gentlemen, demagogy doesn't turn off fires. They also tell us about coordination between administrations, and of course we must work together on this, there is no doubt. Here I put a case from my province, from Ourense, where the fires of 15 or 17 October ravaged. The provincial council that was working from the zero minute, what was it? The Provincial Parliament of Ourense, of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Ask yourself what others were doing at that time. That same parliament on 27 October itself approved a fire commission to work day by day on the needs of our people. Finally, a reflection. The government allocates 14% more in the budgets for this matter, but the fact that up to 264 fires occur on a single weekend cannot be the result of chance. If we have several fires at several points at three in the morning it is not the result of chance. If we add 35° for the day and 25° for the night logically that makes it worse; if we add to it also the drought season that we had that also hurts, and if we add to it that a hurricane like the Ofelia arrived of course we are facing a perfect storm. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we need to reflect, but with all this we are proud of all the services of extinction, we are also proud of the government, because not only were the president and minister Tejerina within hours, but they took out a package of measures that was published this week: the Mapama invests 2.3 million euros in emergency actions in the geographical demarcations Niño, Sil, Duero and Cantabrico. These are realities. I'm done, President. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us to continue research, respond to damage and work in the future. There you will find the People's Party, because we are not the enemies. Our common enemy is the fire and who provokes it. It is important that they do not forget it so that they too keep it in mind. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Viso. In the course of accepting or rejecting the amendments tabled, she asked Mrs Cancela Rodríguez whether her group accepts any of the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u144	Three additional amendments have been tabled. We accepted the first and the third because the second has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u145	Thank you very much. We shall take this into account for the votes. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE POLICIES OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY TO GUARANTEE EQUALITY, REDUCE UNEQUALITY AND AVOID TERRITORIAL HEALTH FRAGMENTATION. [[File number 173/000058]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u146	We turn to the next item: Motion resulting from urgent questioning by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on policies to ensure equity, reduce inequalities and avoid territorial fragmentation in the area of health. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Igea Arisketa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. It has come as a coincidence that today this book is being presented for sale for the first time, My Marathon Against Cancer. [[Show a picture of the cover of the book]] It is a book written by a journalist you will know, Jesús Martín Tapias, a journalist from Antena 3 who became famous for some chronicles about Haiti. It is a book in which he tells of his adventure and his fight against colon cancer that was diagnosed two years ago, colon cancer with metastasis, in which he literally says: I strongly protest. It's an unfair situation to all intents and purposes. If I had lived in the Basque Country or Valencia, I wouldn't be like that today. Unfortunately today Jesus Martin cannot attend the presentation of his book because he passed away last Sunday. This is what we want to talk about and this is what we were talking about the other day. The inequality of the Spanish health system is a tangible reality, but it is also a readable reality. Read specialized press. In the last week at least three articles deal with the inequality of the system. It is a hearable reality for all those of us who work in the Health Commission, who have heard day after day patients with rare diseases, patients with some diseases, how they suffer from the inequality of the system. But above all, it is a measurable reality that is reflected in the system's indicators. There are inequalities in funding, we said the other day, there are differences of 60%, from 1000 euros per patient to 1600 in the Basque Country. This reality is perpetuated year after year and perpetuates differences in staffing, staff and, more importantly, results. We also have inequalities in benefits. There are autonomous communities, such as the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, which have in place tests for the early arrest of severe immunodeficiencies that allow children born with these diseases to be diagnosed and treated in time. There are communities where there are no communities, and over the course of this year ten or twelve children will be born in Spain who will die because they do not have that test. I understand that that's less sexy than the other things we're talking about here, but that's human lives. There are also inequalities in access to such benefits, in access to reference centres. There are inequalities in access to orphan medicines. There are income inequalities; we all know that the cohabiting has been a barrier to adherence in low-income workers. We know that, because there are studies that say so; one of them, the most important of all, from the Pharmaceutical Bank - which is an NGO dedicated to caring for those patients who cannot afford their treatments - tells us that 98% of them are type 3 cards, low-income workers. There are inequalities in primary care; there are inequalities among professionals; professionals who are dedicated to being, in some communities, girls for everything, are not integrated in primary care teams and are available to managers to go every day to a centre, to attend every day a gap. Inequalities also in results. That is why we are going to the whole House today to try to do something that we understand - and I understand - that is not as sexy as raising a flag in defense of an idea, as raising a flag in defense of a country. It's a very simple thing, it's trying to do something that Victor Lapuente called in the excellent book The Return of the 'Increasing Politics' Shamans. Let us make concrete improvements, concrete improvements that will influence people's lives; the citizens who pay us all pay us to improve their lives, not to be here throwing the mess at our heads or raising flags. That is why we propose a series of specific measures, determined, such as, first of all, speeding up the updating of the benefit portfolio, so that every six months the interterritorial council equals the essential benefits. That is why we propose things as simple as studying a funding system that avoids those budget differences between communities. Let us see if we are in the same hurry to study this problem of health financing that we have, some of us, given to reach an agreement on the Basque quota. We also propose to improve the cohesion fund that allows patients to go from one reference centre to another. We propose to establish centralized committees that allow patients who have rare diseases and need orphan medicines to have equal access to them; that this does not happen as happened in Aragon, where children with muscular dystrophy do not have a treatment that is given to them in Madrid and that they do not have it because they do not budget it. We also propose to establish indicators at the hospital level, at the service level to make those differences clear and to be able to combat them. We also propose improvements in primary care and that it be done with those area doctors I was talking about earlier. We also propose - and we will like to see the result of that vote - that the co-payment of patients with type 3 cards be topped up, that workers with lower incomes in this country do not see their adherence to the treatment as said Sespas, as the study of the Pharmaceutical Bank says, as the studies of the health economy that are most affected say. Finally, we also propose to improve screening and reform the professional status so that professionals from all over Spain are encouraged to increase their results and improve the quality of our health in a uniform way. Look, after this we may not be trending topic, and after this we may not go out on the Sixth and do not dedicate Ferreras a special, but if after this we get a few less Jesus Martin Tapia to write a book like this in four years, if we get ten families next year who don't lose their children because we have done something useful, we will have done something decent, we will have made a real policy that is what citizens pay us in this House. Nothing more. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Igea. The Socialist Group, Mr Fernández Díaz, is speaking first of all to defend the amendments put forward by its groups.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u149	Good afternoon. It is a pity that the minister to whom it is clear does not accompany us today, having listened to her in her response to the question two weeks ago, who is not interested in talking about inequalities in health. Instead of talking about solutions to these inequalities, he read us an almost endless list of tasks that his ministry carries out, from 2013 agreements with the professions, which does not comply, to an agreement with Farmaindustria to ensure the growth according to the IPC of pharmaceutical billing while sending Brussels a budget plan that reduces health investment in relation to GDP, or a pilot project of socio-health coordination in Ceuta and Melilla while keeping patients with, for example, radiotherapy treatment having to be transferred to the Peninsula to receive their treatments and blocking solutions that exist for these cities. He planted as a historical success an agreement between professions, that of medicine and that of nursing, on the prescription of nursing that, in fact, the only thing that solves is an error - that was historic - of the Government of the People's Party when he published the Royal Decree 954/2015. The People's Party bothers to talk about inequalities because it is talking about the impact of the crisis and its policies on the health and determinants of the population's health. Mr Igea, inequalities are not solved with more centralization. You forget the results and progress of health and the fight against inequalities with the autonomous state. In 1975 the difference in infant mortality between autonomous communities was 10 children per thousand live births and today it is two, a fifth has been reduced between the autonomous community with the largest and the autonomous community with the lowest infant mortality. A study a year ago published in the British Medical Journal says that Spain is the European country where inequality in mortality between social classes has been reduced most in absolute terms. Today the map of health inequalities is the map of unemployment and poverty. We were already told by the Spanish Society of Public Health in its appearance at the Health Commission to present the 2014 report: there is evidence that the economic crisis has had a negative impact on people's health and has increased inequalities. It also identifies some population groups such as the elderly, children, the unemployed and immigrants. That is why we approved a study, requested by the Socialist Group, for the Government to send to this House a report on the impact of the economic crisis on health and inequalities; a study whose deadline is this November, so we hope that the Government will send it to us, that it will have the rigour we expect of it. Mr Igea, you simplify the situation of autonomous financing. For example, the Basque Country compares us with Andalusia and ignores that four other autonomous communities around the Basque Country have a health expenditure per capita similar to - if not equal - that of the Basque Country. It is true that we must make progress in a new system of autonomous financing that improves equity and territorial levelling, but we must respect an autonomous state in which we respect the capacity for decision-making and self-government. The same experts from the Commission of the autonomous financing system say that it is not necessary to look at what happens to a given tax or provision in isolation, but to adopt a vision that fully reflects the package of services, services and taxes in each territory and the costs of providing those services. An effective and fair system of autonomous financing is one that promotes equity between territories, without limiting its allocation capacity or undermining efficiency and fiscal responsibility. Therefore, to solve the problems of financial sufficiency in the National Health System you have to have more rigour than you do. The Socialist Party has been presenting initiatives since the beginning of this parliamentary term to correct the health inequalities that policies have brought against the economic crisis, starting with a bill that you and the People's Party have vetoed to return the health card to thousands of people who lost it in 2012. That's why your motion doesn't help us, because it's a make-up motion; it's not incremental politics, it's make-up politics, and with that we don't solve the inequality problems that exist in Spain. We have proposed an amendment with nine measures: We must first return the universal right of health care to all people living in Spain, we must eliminate the co-payments that were established in 2012 and withdraw the resources that the Government of Spain has proposed for measures to return health rights realized by certain autonomous communities. It is also necessary to reach an agreement with the autonomous communities to define the criteria of sufficiency and equity of health financing in the new autonomous funding system, as well as to strengthen primary care, to provide the State's general budgets with the health cohesion funds that were lost as a result of the crisis, not the three million euros that you have accepted as the alms of the People's Party. We must also reduce the quality gap and health care conditions...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u150	Mr Fernández, you have to come to an end.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u151	I'm finishing up. ... in Ceuta and Melilla and immediately transfer prison health to all autonomous communities. These are the measures that we have put forward and that you, as I understand it, will not accept what will therefore force us to vote against your motion. These are measures that, I hope, the minister who preaches so much of the pact but does not practice it, agrees to negotiate with the Socialist Party as a sign of wanting to reach agreements and of wanting to move towards a pact for health.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u152	In conclusion, Mr Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u153	The Socialist Party, Mr Igea, will not support an attempt to wash the face of the policies of the People's Party that have done so much damage to Spanish health. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u154	Mrs Angulo Romero has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u155	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not share with you the somewhat catastrophic image of our health. I don't do it because I think it's one of the best in the world and that's what most Spaniards value it. We have a system with 13,500 health centres, more than 286,000 doctors and nurses, 1500 portfolio benefits, 19,000 drug submissions and more than 520 million health events a year. It is a system that incorporates innovations and is a leader in Europe in health, it is a system that, thanks to this government, already protects all Spaniards and it is one of the best examples of that cohesion that we defend. Don't you think that a transplant system that allows the organ of a deceased in Badajoz hours later to give a new life to a citizen in Barcelona is one of the best examples of cohesion that the Spaniards have? [[Applauds]] Mr Igea, some of us have been working for forty years to get all these things, don't stand up for the only defender of Spanish patients because it's not credible and many of us have been doing it for many years. I think your intention is to improve things, really... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u156	One moment, Mrs. Angulo, one moment. I beg your silence. [[Pause]] Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u157	I think your intention is to improve, but don't let tearful speeches or political opportunism lead you to align with those who want to discredit all the good things that we Spaniards have given us as an excuse to destroy or separate. That the system can be improved? Of course. It has weaknesses, but it also has progress to incorporate, as well as challenges that can break it or endanger it, and not only economic. Let us work together to overcome them with loyalty and consensus, as this Government does, which in a single year has reached agreements, yes, with professionals, patients and the autonomous communities to advance in equity and which is fulfilling the agreements signed with Citizens: thalidomide, Rare Disease Fund, transparency portal. We want to continue to reach agreements and hence our amendment. You present us with a motion of points that have nothing to do with each other and that are sometimes simplistic in the analysis, as if all the challenges facing our model could be solved by a single motion. Things aren't always white or black, Mr. Igea, and that's why there are points we want to agree on. It calls for a report on funding, and we already have the report prepared by the committee of experts; let us work on it. We agree on the Rare Disease Fund; a big bet from the Minister of Health that was included in the budgets and whose endowment we want to increase in the 2018 ones, but for that it is necessary to have budgets, and that is the responsibility of everyone, also the lords of the left, who are constantly talking about inequalities and cuts but who are the ones who deny those sick most vulnerable budgets that cover those funds. [[Applauds]] The PP wants them to be. Do you want it? So less demagogy and more facts. Mr Igea, we agree to return to our professionals the salary cuts made to them by the Socialist Party - budgets are needed - and to improve prevention through screening, and the government is already doing so, but respecting the procedures. We want to agree, but you are introducing, perhaps intentionally, something that prevents it, because you again insist on the subject of cohabiting, disregarding the agreement we reached in the Health Committee. The People's Party reformed the unjust system of socialist co-sponsorship to have a fairer model and for which the most vulnerable people paid nothing. You quote us reports on economic causes for non-adherence, but there are others who deny them. The OECD has said that economic reasons in Spain are not the cause of non-adherence. A figure of 1.2 million patients buy medicines, that is, they pay for them, and then they don't take them, Mr. Igea. There are other cultural and social factors for this lack of adherence. In addition, workers with such incomes continue to pay the same as before. For thirty-five years they had no problems and now, paying the same, yes? Gentlemen of the PSOE, the patients without work who with you paid 40% of the price of medicines were not caused health problems and now, who do not pay anything, yes? Can you explain it to me? Mr Igea, do not make us go back to that unjust system and accept our amendment or, at least, allow us to vote on what we are in favour of. Let us not make policy with health, but health policy with capitals and get that health pact that truly and thoroughly addresses all the challenges the system faces. May in these convulsed times in which we are living this covenant for healing serve to demonstrate that together we are able to advance in what really matters to the citizens. Let us leave the political opportunism, let us remain with the opportunity to build, Mr Igea. I trust that all of you - you, too, and you, lords of the PSOE - will be able to do so. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u158	Thank you very much, Mrs. Angulo. Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's agenda. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u159	Thank you, Mr. President. The title of this motion refers to policies to ensure equity, reduce inequalities and avoid territorial fragmentation in health. I would like to propose a title that I think is much more appropriate: to refocus public health. If they really wanted to talk about ensuring equality in this motion, they would talk, for example, about ensuring free and universal health care. They would talk about repealing Royal Decree 16/2012, which expels people from public health because of their administrative situation. They would talk about withdrawing the unconstitutionality resources that this Government has put against those autonomous governments that do want universal health, but this motion does not seek equity, it wants to re-centralize. If this motion wanted to talk about reducing inequalities, it would talk, for example, about including as soon as possible the health measures of the state pact against macho violence or would talk about implementing equality plans in our hospitals; it would even talk about eliminating the pharmaceutical co-op altogether. But this motion does not seek equality, it wants to refocus. If I wanted to talk about avoiding territorial fragmentation, I would talk, for example, about paying the Care Guarantee Fund to self-governance, or I would talk about a fair financing system that would ensure that all self-governances could provide the same services. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u160	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u161	Or I'd talk about how to compensate for the lack of investment that some autonomies like the Valencià Country have suffered for years. But this motion does not seek to avoid territorial fragmentation, it wants to re-centralize. And since he has talked about programs in The Sixth, I would like to tell him that Citizens often seem like the Save me of politics, which comes here with biased, uncontrasted data and fairly sensational information, because some autonomy we are fighting against the model... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u162	Wait a minute, Mrs. Sorlí, wait a minute. [[Pause]] Thank you very much, continue.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u163	Thank you. As I said, some autonomy we are changing and fighting against this toxic model of the People's Party, we are fighting for universal health, we are working for a truly public system, we are striving to recover a health system at the service of people, and all this despite the unfair treatment we receive from the central government. So no, we're not going to allow them to reconnect public health so they can control from Madrid what they couldn't win in the polls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u164	Thank you very much, Mrs Sorlí. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u165	Thank you, President. I am telling you that we are going to vote no, and we are going to vote no because, even if you do not like it, the competences are autonomous. But let us vote that not especially because for us the solution or the way to achieve a quality and efficient health is not uniformity, uniformity for us is not the solution. Indeed, the diversity of practices and experiences enriches. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, diversity enriches, does not impoverish and you, far from deploying the potential that exists in Spain, what you do with your policies is to make it a little smaller every day. I will also ask you to stop insulting us and not just those who want the freedom of Catalonia or those who do not want to be in a country where some parties give white paper to fascism and call out in the face of the violent acts of these fascists. No, we ask you to stop insulting all citizens and stop making ridiculous applause for the imprisonment of your political rivals, whom you should be able to overthrow with your arguments and not with the bars. But I know I'm asking too much because I'm asking you to do politics. I will also ask you to stop lying and stop telling stories because we are not bothered by Spain, and we are not bothered by Spanish citizens, quite the opposite. Fortunately, the people who know the citizens of Catalonia know perfectly well that you, storytellers, lie and deceive because you live in the wasteland of division and attack. Deputies of Citizens, those who want us to withdraw the salary for our ideas and not for our work, despite their hatred, we will continue to work without ever giving up... [[Protests.- Rumors.-Applause.]] [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u166	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nogueras. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have three speeches left and I would ask you to moderate that murmur which is becoming increasingly constant and unsustainable so that we do not have to interrupt the speaker. I've told him on more occasions. I'd beg you, please, silence. Thank you very much. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u167	Thank you, Mr. President. The Citizens' motion, in essence the citizens' inquiry and the consequence of that inquiry, is another piece of the ideological puzzle of this parliamentary group, a puzzle in which education, health, above all, and social services generate a puzzle in which the message is that Spain is unequal, there is no equity and that we cannot consent to. [[Applauds]] Yeah, yeah, cheer up. And why do they say that? Why do they say that? You say, "Do you know why that happens?" Because some enjoy privileges and we, the defenders of that essence, are not going to allow it. So if there are differences, inequalities in the health world, which is what concerns us right now, who is the culprit, the one who allows that to happen or the one who doesn't do things right so that it stops happening? But basically what you want to convey is that there are some communities that have some privileges that because of different funding makes others not able to have that situation that they have. Because you in your motion from the beginning recognize, for example, the good health - worth redundancy - of the Basque health system. But that seems to you to be a problem, it seems to be a situation in which, instead of thinking why others cannot be as well as Basques or shipwrecks are, it seems that what this is about is that the situation is generated because some have a bad health system. Aren't some of us very concerned about the health system? Doesn't the Basques pay it with our taxes in such a way that we prioritize the health system in our budgets? Let us therefore make a true reading of what is happening. I'll never ask others to go wrong, what I'd like is for everyone to be fine. You said if a congressman breaks his hip, he'll have less chance depending on where he is. What I am going to tell you clearly is that if that Member, wherever he is, breaks his hip in Euskadi, he will be treated as well as if he were a Basque and with the same priority as if he were a Basque. We therefore do not confuse the issue of the health system in any way with privileges or with situations because the health budget of the Basque Autonomous Community does so with our taxes. Our funding system, as you well know, comes from the Economic Concert, but it is that we also get to the mother of the lamb, what you really question is precisely that, that we have an Economic Concert that we are not going to give up, obviously, that gives us the possibilities for us to prioritize that. Ask yourself why others do not prioritize the health system, why they do not put so much effort into spending on the health system. [[The lady]] Having said that, and since I have no time left, I would like to say that some of the points that you put forward could be dealt with one by one in any case. With regard to the basic portfolio of benefits, there is already a network at the national health system level for coordinating health technology assessment agencies that evaluates the health impact of the new benefits and on autonomous financing, once again I reiterate that it is a system of outside funding. I also want to tell you that some things they've been asking for for years have been treating them. It seems very good to me that they are asked to do all of them, but do not use the subject of health to, instead of reinforcing others to do things the way they should, it seems as if others had some privileges. We don't have any privileges, it's a right. We invest and spend on what we prioritize, which is healing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u168	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Botejara Sanz has the floor. [[Rumors]] Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u169	Mr. Igea gets upset when the minister doesn't answer him as he wants and the minister can't answer him because she doesn't understand what he's reading. That's a problem. It is not the responsibility of the minister, but of the person who has appointed her, who has put her there to solve the problems, the protection of the health of our population, article 43 of the Constitution, now that we are with the Constitution all the time. Mr Igea talks about inequality and inequity in the health system. It is obvious, from what the previous spokesman said, and I can give some figures. In the Basque Country, the budget per inhabitant and year is 1600 euros while in Andalusia it is 1100. As for doctors of specialized care, there are 2.3 per 1,000 inhabitants in Navarre and 1.3 in Melilla. Clearly, there is a situation of inequality. That's clear. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u170	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u171	What measures does Mr Igea offer? It talks about the Cohesion Fund, which was provided in 2002 when health transfers were completed, with 150 million. What happened to this fund? That in 2011 it had 87 million and has gradually been decreasing. In 2015 it was 2.3 million; in 2016 it was zero euros and in 2017 it was 3.7. We've gone from 150 million to 3.7 million, but Mr. Igea doesn't say we have to get them back. Autonomous financing. It is clear that there are clearly insufficient communities and that they are not finalists, and we have to say this without fear. We cannot make roads with health money, just as we have parameters to review, because the cost of caring for one million people in 1000 square kilometres is not the same as in 40 000 square kilometres. Service portfolio. It should be part of the Inter-Territorial Council, which is our cohesion body. The Inter-Territorial Council and the Plenary, according to the rules of procedure, have to meet every three months. And how many times have you met since this minister is here? One, June 21st, and he hasn't done it again. It is our organ to co-ordinate our healing. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u173	One fundamental element that Mr Igea has been overlooked is privatization. It is a fundamental element of inequality, but he has not mentioned it. As far as primary care is concerned, it is not a question of strengthening it, but of budgeting it. We have a budget deficit of 15%. The primary care budget, which is the axis of our health system, has been lowered. Why? Because it's a structure that doesn't matter, because the ones who make the box here are the hospitals. Markets don't make money with primary care. The indicators. Mr. Igea is with the indicators all the time. I have already commented more than once that we cannot use the same indicators in scenarios that do not have the same resources. We cannot take the Public Hospital of Móstoles, which is frankly underutilized, and apply the same indicators as the Rey Juan Carlos University Hospital, which everyone knows is very well endowed. That's no use. Indicators are a tool, not an objective. As for the private, how are we not going to agree with the private? I'd miss more! What can't be is that you name the privates and you don't name the waiting list we have. We cannot have patients with a well-founded suspicion of cancer three months longer waiting for further tests. That's a priority over what you put here. [[Applauds]] With regard to what the representative of the Basque Group said, I would like to comment that article 149 of the Constitution states that the State will guarantee the equality of all Spaniards in the exercise of their rights. As we have said before, health protection is a right and an obligation of the Government to guarantee it. Finally, I would like to say that I do not lose my hopes of convincing Mr Igea that public funding and private provision are not working. We've already seen the side effects that it has and how money goes around the corners. It is clear that this is not the alternative. My political group's choice is, logically, a public health for all. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Igea Arisketa, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u175	No, but we would like to see a point-by-point vote and read it to them.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u176	Thank you very much. In three minutes we shall begin the voting. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, we have begun voting. We vote, first of all, to take into consideration the proposed law of the Madrid Assembly for the amendment of the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime to guarantee the right of all persons with disabilities to vote. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 341 plus 2 telematics votes, 343; 341 plus 2 telematics votes, 343.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u178	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u179	We voted to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group, amending Law 42/2007 of 13 December 2007 on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 341 plus 2 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 263 plus 1 telematics vote, 264; against, 78 plus 1 telematics vote, 79.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u180	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u181	Let us now proceed to vote on the non-legislative proposals of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the adoption of a real second chance law, and of the Citizens Parliamentary Group on measures to ensure a real second chance for families and debtors in insolvency, which have been discussed together. We are voting, ladies and gentlemen, on the compromise text presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 132 against, 2 abstentions, 206.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u182	They're approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u183	Let us now turn, ladies and gentlemen, to the votes on the motions. Firstly, a motion following urgent questioning by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left on the defence of the model of the Catalan school. We're going to vote for points. We voted, first of all, on point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour 176 against 165.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u184	It was adopted. We voted for point number two. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 171 against, 165 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u185	It was adopted. We voted for point number three. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 87 against, 165 abstentions, 89.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u186	It's rejected. - the Joint Parliamentary Group on the general policy of the Government in matters of transport and railway infrastructure, in order to promote competitiveness, growth and the creation of the employment of the Spanish economy. [[LORD MARTÍNEZ OBLANCA]] [[File number 173/000056]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the motion of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, for an urgent debate on the general policy on transport and railway infrastructure, in order to promote competitiveness, growth and job creation in the Spanish economy. We are also going to vote on points. We begin with point 1 of that motion. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 13 against, 312 abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u188	It's rejected. We voted for point number two. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 175 against, 70 abstentions, 94.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u189	It was adopted. We voted for point number three. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 177 against, 71 abstentions, 93.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u190	It was adopted. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the Government's policy on prevention and combating forest fires. [[File number 173/000057]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u191	We shall now proceed to vote on the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Socialist Parliamentary Group into the government's policy on forest fire prevention and control. We are voting on the terms resulting from the incorporation of Amendments Nos 1 and 3 of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 204 against, 130 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u192	It's approved. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE POLICIES OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH, SOCIAL SERVICES AND EQUALITY TO GUARANTEE EQUALITY, REDUCE UNEQUALITY AND AVOID TERRITORIAL HEALTH FRAGMENTATION. [[File number 173/000058]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u193	We now turn to the motion resulting from an urgent call by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the policies of the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality to ensure equity, reduce inequalities and avoid territorial fragmentation in the area of health. Let's vote for points. We started with point number one. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 38 against, 298 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u194	It's rejected. Point number two. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 34 against, 295 abstentions, 9.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u195	It's rejected. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 161 against, 175 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u196	It's rejected. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 34 against, 304 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u197	It's rejected. Point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 161 against, 175 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u198	It's rejected. Point 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 32 against, 304 abstentions, 5.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u199	It's rejected. Point 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 165 against, 174 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u200	It's rejected. Point number 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 32 against, 305 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u201	It's rejected. Point 9. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 161 against, 175 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u202	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-07-CD171107.u203	Let us now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to the vote... [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. The proposal of the Committee on Agriculture, Food and the Environment to set up a subcommission for the study and elaboration of water policy proposals in line with the challenges of climate change was put to the vote. Can it be understood to be approved by consent? [[Consent]] The proposal to set up the said subcommission was therefore approved. The meeting was suspended. It was eight thirty-five minutes of the night. [[*******page with picture **********]]
