ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency is submitting to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to the effect that the urgent inquiry of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Campuzano, on the agenda as item 31, is first discussed in the section on interpellations. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] Thank you very much. The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted. I would also like to inform you that items 2 and 8 to 10 of the agenda will be put to the vote at today's sitting. The rest of the votes will take place at the sitting on Thursday.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u2	We begin with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Citizens Parliamentary Group for the creation of an independent agency that assumes the functions of the High Educational Inspectorate, the agency of the high educational inspection. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Rivera Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens who follow this parliamentary session, today we are presenting a law with thirty-seven years of delay; exactly thirty-seven years of delay because in 1980, in the law of education at the time and since 1978 in the Constitution, the State provided in article 27 of the Constitution not only for basic legislation, not only an organic law of education, but also for the High Inspection of the State. Why has it not been formulated in this House? We will talk about this in today's debate, but the reality is that thirty-seven years ago a law that came out of this House, from the Legislature, asked parliamentarians and executives to develop what many decentralized countries have, which is a high education inspection exclusively of the State. Article 27.1 specifically - and to initiate this intervention is as simple as taking our Constitution and reading what the text of the Magna Charter says - says: 'Everyone has the right to education. Freedom of education is recognized.' But 27.8 says - and this is what we are going to bring here today -: 'The public authorities will inspect and approve the education system to ensure compliance with the laws'. This is what the Spanish Constitution says, which is provided for by the constituent from the parents of the Constitution, the Communist Party, the Socialist Party, the UCD, the People's Alliance, all the parents of the Constitution of all parties agreed to agree on the High Inspection of the State as the exclusive competence of the State. Therefore, today we do not come to discuss the competences that the autonomy already have, which are those of development and execution; today we do not come to question the Organic Law of Education, which is a competence of the State, we come to develop a vacuum, an omission of the Legislative Power and the executives of Spain. First, I will explain to you, therefore, where we are going from, which is from the Constitution and successive organic laws that have not developed - and then we will see why - this legislation. Secondly, if I may, I will explain to you what is happening precisely because I do not have a High State Inspectorate in many schools, in many places in this country. Thirdly, what can we avoid and, above all, what can we do with an independent high inspection, such as the one proposed by this law and, fourthly, why education is the fundamental pillar for a country project. Because today we do not come to talk about anything, we come to talk about equality, about the freedom of all Spaniards to receive the right to education and to receive it according to the Spanish Constitution. [[Applauds]] If we have exclusive competence of the State - without any doubt Article 27.8 - if we have transferred competences to the autonomy that has legitimately developed the legislative competence of development and enforcement, if up to eight organic laws of education have been made, the question that any Spanish citizen will ask today is why in thirty-seven years neither the governments of UCD nor the People's Party nor the Socialist Party have wanted to develop something as basic in an autonomous state as ours. Well, the explanation is diverse, it's complex, but it's troubling. Because the reality is that it has not developed because some political parties, partners of the Spanish governments, have not wanted to. Certainly, many Socialist or People's Party voters agree that there should be an inspection, as in other countries, to ensure and ensure the equality of all Spaniards. What happened along the way? That successive Governments of Spain have omitted an obligation and this Legislative Power, with dependent majorities in some cases of nationalist parties, has not done so. Why? Because nationalism had a goal, which was to turn education into a place to work for the destruction and liquidation of Spain. This is what we have seen recently, it is no longer an opinion, it is a fact that they have tried and it is also a fact that has been working against the general interest for decades and, above all, trying to create more inequality between Spaniards. Therefore, today we play here, with this proposal of law, equality before the law of all Spaniards, freedom of teaching, freedom and critical thinking against those who want to impose their opinion at any price and, above all, today we play the obligation of a State, of a nation, to develop a fundamental article of its Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot keep looking elsewhere, seeing what is happening in many schools in Spain and saying or saying that they are not going to do anything or that nothing is happening here. Yes, we are going to do something, we are going to legislate, we are ready to legislate, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and of other parties that will certainly oppose this, because they have tabled a total amendment and I do not understand it. I do not understand how the Socialist Party that has ruled for twenty-one years Spain is going to go against Article 27.8 of the Constitution, but in any case we will have a debate on it, because I trust that many socialists, even members of the Socialist Party, do agree with the Spanish Constitution and Article 27.8. In all the places of Spain, but especially where the focus has been these days, in my land, in Catalonia - where some have tried to strike a blow to democracy - some have tried to use the blockade on Article 27.8 so that no one inspects the illegalities they commit there. That's right. I will tell you something, from now on, if it is up to us, I do not know about you - the Socialist Party or the People's Party - we will not stop developing our Constitution or defending it because Mr Pujol, Mr Artur Mas or Mr Carod-Rovira tell us. [[Applauds]] From now on, that's enough. If this law comes into force no politician, no damage in no dark room, no Covenant of the Majestic, no Covenant of the Tinell will end the high inspection, because it will be in progress. Moreover, it will not depend on any politician, it will be an independent agency, in which State technicians will evaluate whether textbooks, whether in classrooms, whether teachers, whether the educational community complies with the Organic Law on Education. Can any of you please tell me why you are opposed to monitoring the Organic Education Act? A law that is organic because it defends fundamental rights. Therefore, the groups that are going to vote against today, why are they against the Constitution? Why are they against compliance with the organic law that this Parliament has also legislated? Therefore, I ask you to reflect, stop playing the game of nationalisms. Start defending the Constitution without complexes, defend the equality of all Spaniards. It makes no sense that those of us who consider ourselves progressive do not defend equality. I do not know why the members of the Socialist Party are submitting an amendment, not only do they not support it, but they stand in front of the Constitution so that it does not apply. In 1980 but also in the law of 1990 - by the way, of the Socialist Party - the development of this competition was already foreseen, but they did not, it was not to be that Pujol or the partners of government were angry or then spoke Catalan in privacy or then Mr Artur Mas or then Mr Carod-Rovira who, by the way, invested Mr Zapatero from the Republican Left Presidency. That's what happened, that's the pure truth. It has not developed because you had a pact with the nationalists so that Spain would not apply its Constitution. [[Applauds]] Do you know what happens when the Constitution does not apply? That you give instruments to those who want to liquidate it. Look, what I'm going to teach you are things that happen, even if you deny it; don't deny it because it exists. [[Show photocopy of a page of a textbook]] It is a Catalan textbook that, as you will understand, places Catalonia on an equal footing with any other country. It says: Spain, Germany, Finland, United Kingdom, Greece, Netherlands and Catalonia. Now we have discovered that Catalonia, as Puigdemont says, is a state, a Catalan republic. Do you believe that textbooks in Catalonia have to say what Puigdemont says or what the Constitution says? [[Applauds]] Pick you guys. In Catalonia, some make new colonialism, which is the colonialism of the Catalan Countries. [[Show another photocopy of a page of a textbook]] It is no longer the autonomous state, now - it turns out that we did not know it - there is a new entity, a kind of cultural tectonic plate that turns out to include the south of France, a part of Aragon, a part of Italy, Balearics and Valencian Community. This is what is studied in the textbooks and, in the face of this, the Socialist Party, Podemos and other groups say that this does not exist. Well, there is, unfortunately. What do you prefer, to study as Puigdemont wants and those who have given a blow to democracy or as most Spaniards want, respecting the Constitution? On the other hand, ideological symbols are also used in school. Look, the school is the civil temple, the school is the most sacred place of a democracy, it is the place where you learn to think, where you learn critical thinking, freedom, equality, civil values, it is the place, even, where we will vote, that yes, with guarantees, not as some do, using schools illegally. Well, look, this is what hangs from some schools in Catalonia. [[Shows a picture in which they look starry next to a school]] Do you think it is normal for ideological symbols to be used in public schools? Do you think this is normal? Aren't you going to do anything? [[Applauds]] We do not want textbooks that lie, nor do we want anyone to convert other autonomous communities into part of Catalonia, nor do we want stellates or symbols of any political party in schools; we want freedom, we want equality, we want neutrality. There have recently even been complaints against teachers who pointed out the children of civil guards at school, pointing them out for the profession of their parents who, by the way, are public servants of this country. Are we going to continue to allow high inspection not to protect against hatred in our country's classrooms? Are we going to continue to look elsewhere and that nationalism also seizes, in this case, what must be a sacred civil space, such as education? Citizens have not come here to be a companion or to apologize to those who want to destroy this country, has come here to change things. [[Applauds]] The People's Party has had an absolute majority for five years and has not wanted to make this law. I hope that you will join, not as last time, in supporting this law. Since you do not legislate, we also legislate parliamentary groups, so I ask you to support this law. They've had five years with an absolute majority without anyone telling them anything and they haven't. It is better later than ever, to support this law, do not continue to be mistaken because the nationalisms in the end all they want is that in education no one controls that the law is complied with; and we already know what happens in Catalonia and many parts of Spain when the law is not complied with. Anyone who is in favour of complying with the laws that come out of this House should therefore vote in favour of this law. What will change with this law? First, there will be an exclusive high-level inspection of the State, which does not depend on the Government of office, which is an independent agency that will ensure compliance with the laws. I ask you, who in this House is afraid that some technicians will assess the compliance with the legality that is approved here? Which one of you is afraid that Spanish educational system technicians will evaluate with reports whether the law is being enforced or not in Spain? I'm not afraid of technicians, I'm not afraid of officials who look after legality, I don't have it. They therefore vote in favour. We can discuss how it is regulated, we can amend it, we can discuss it, but I ask the Socialist Party to withdraw the amendment altogether because they are playing the game with the separatists. [[Applauds]] You're voting with Republican Left this law. [[Applauds]] With this agency, we also guarantee that there can be complaints without pressure, without coercion. Some will say: no, if there is no pressure or coercion. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, They are pointing to their children according to their parents'profession. Isn't that pressure? That's reported for hate crime to the D.A. Therefore, we do not want anyone to be afraid to ask for law enforcement in a school. There are places in Spain where it is very difficult, ladies and gentlemen, - believe me, some of us know it more than others - to comply with the laws. There are places where there is pressure, where nationalism exerts pressure on many parents who want to denounce the violation of the law, on the educational community in some cases and on people, ultimately, who want the law to be enforced. This is an absolutely necessary law, urgent after thirty-seven years of non-development of the Constitution, but it is also a law where we play the model of country. I want a Spain of future opportunities, I want a Spain of freedoms, I want a Spain that, without complexes, defends the Constitution and the constitutional order and does not defend those who break the constitutional order. Whoever swears this Constitution is therefore under an obligation to defend what he says and to develop it. [[Shows a copy of the 1978 Spanish Constitution]] And if we have developed autonomous powers, those of us who are in favour of the state of autonomy must vote for this law. Those of us who believe in an autonomous state, but not in a set of tribes, but in an autonomous state, must vote in favour of this law. [[Applauds]] Because the greatest instrument we can leave to our children and the future is freedom of education, equality before the law. The greatest instrument a citizen has to prosper in his country is education, and good education and education that guarantees equality and freedom is necessary for that country. So, as a defender of the State of autonomy, as defenders of the competences shared between autonomy and the State, as defenders of the validity and the need to apply the Constitution in Spain, today we bring this law so that technicians, trained people who are not political, who do not make pacts in the dark, watch over the legality in force in Catalonia and throughout Spain and, above all, for a model of country in which freedom and equality are imposed on supremacy, selfishness, confrontation, division. Ladies and gentlemen, just look away. It is not the nationalists' fault that this happens; it is the fault of those who have not done their job, and I am not going to be a Member of this House or President of this group looking elsewhere. I want democratic legality to be defended in Spain, I want equality and freedom to be defended, and I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will comply with the Constitution, that we will vote in favour of this procedure, and for a while now we can say that in any corner of Spain, in any classroom - which is the most sacred thing in a democracy - laws are respected and hate is not promoted but union is promoted, supremacism is not promoted but equality is promoted, imposition is not promoted but freedom is promoted, and selfishness is not promoted but solidarity is promoted. That is the school of the future, the school of quality, but also the school of equality. Spain which comes, ladies and gentlemen, must be Spain of opportunity, not Spain of confrontations. I do not want a Spain divided between the education law of the Reds and the education law of the Blues; I want an education law for all Spaniards. And I don't want a Spain where it faces the territories depending on where people were born, but I want a Spain of opportunities, a Spain of free and equal citizens. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u4	It has called for the use of the turn against the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I give the floor, on behalf of that group, to Mrs Martínez Seijo.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Mr. Rivera, lessons on constitutionalism, none. None of us can consent to it. [[Applauds]] I remind you that of all groups the Socialist Party was the only one that was in the negotiation of the Spanish Constitution. So we don't take any lessons from him. [[Rumors.- Mr. Rivera Díaz shows a copy of the Spanish Constitution of 1978]] Look, stop playing with this country's education at once. [[Applauds]] Stop using education. We are not in an election campaign, and that is what you are demonstrating. We did not have enough with the motion they brought us a few days ago, which caused us stupor, but they also now bring us a proposal for a law that is absolutely subjective, opportunistic, sensationalistic and deeply harmful to the Spanish competitive education system. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz shows again the picture in which they look starry next to a school]] They criticize that there is indoctrination on the part of some, but what you are doing here today is the same, more of the same, but, yes, at the opposite extreme. [[Applauds]] [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah, same thing. You have been and are being tremendously disloyal to the work of the subcommission of the pact for education, systematically torpedoing with the shadow of doubt about the educational system the professionalism of teachers and objectivity in the classrooms. [[Several Members: Nooo!-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u6	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u7	And none of the issues that you have put on the table have any basis, because it is affecting the entire Spanish education system, not simply because of some suspicion or some cases that have occurred in some autonomous community. Precisely you, who are saying to bombo and platter that you are the creators of the negotiations of the educational pact; you, who are constantly criticizing that other parliamentary groups are responsible for the great problems of education in this country, of ideologicalizing education, you have given the great lesson of incoherence, the great master lesson of what it is to use and manipulate education in this country. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz shows a copy of the 1978 Spanish Constitution.-Applause]] It had never been so far in the instrumentalization of education in Spain. [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, they're instrumentalizing education. His bill plays with basic educational principles, and once again confirms the educational and ideological inconsistency of his parliamentary group. They show a deep ignorance of the Spanish educational system and how it works with absolute irresponsibility and, of course, they show the seriousness that it would entail, in the case more than hypothetical and unlikely that you would arrive at the Government: in which hands we would leave the education of this country! I will briefly translate the consequences of what you intend with this bill: to leave the Government without competence, to leave the Ministry of Education of this country without competence, as simple as that, ladies and gentlemen, would leave it without competence. And I remind you that we are in a system of educational decentralization, as you have said, yes, based on the Constitution, based on the statutes of autonomy and also, of course, on an administrative system. So his proposal for a law affects the Constitution, the autonomous powers and the public system, to which by blow and plumage they remove powers, and in passing they directly and belically attack the role of the educational inspection in Spain. By the way, for your knowledge, there is a body, that of the High Educational Inspectorate, which is the one that has the function of the ordinary inspection in the centers, Your Honor; you must remember it because it seems that you forget that there is and that there is an ordinary control, which, by the way, is carried out daily, in each autonomous community, to which you want to remove the management skills of the educational centers. [[Denials of Mr. Rivera Díaz]] Look, this bill does not simply pursue a system of control, an agency of educational censorship, but it also questions the professionalism of teachers, the freedom of a chair and a specific body, as I told you before, I remind you: that of the High Educational Inspectorate. Entering into the matter, and analyzing part by part, it is clear that the objective is to privatize and outsource the educational inspection, to assign the functions of the high inspection to an agency whose members do not even have to be inspectors, but that is, they are intended to function as such. That is to say, the supposed advisors of the agency are given the category of inspectors without being, that is, a genuine barbarity. And even that independence that you defend is not guaranteed, because at the end of the day the figure of the director and the advisers, as you propose in your bill, would ultimately be appointed by the same Government, therefore, no autonomy. And on objectivity and professionalism, we find it very serious to forget - possibly intended - not to regulate more rigorously the profiles of those who would perform such inspection tasks, because in order to carry out inspection tasks it is understood that they must be professionals of the educational inspection with specific training, which you do not even contemplate in your proposal of law. A body, that of the High Educational Inspectorate, which for us deserves all our respect because you have a formation and preparation for that purpose, something that you apparently do not share because you want to eliminate it. We find it absurd and pointless to create an agency with functions and powers that already exist. Yes, they do, Mr Rivera, and they carry out both the ordinary inspection and the various administrations, that is to say, they charge the competent system of education in this country. [[Denials of Mr. Rivera Díaz]] The incoherence of your group, of course, reaches unsuspected limits, a few weeks ago they wanted to strengthen the high inspection and today suddenly and plumage they eliminate it, creating an agency that will replace those functions of the high inspection and that, in addition, I remind you, they would leave the Ministry of Education without only competence, or do they also intend to eliminate the Ministry of Education and be replaced by this agency? Well, that's where I leave it, like who doesn't want it. [[Rumors]] They talk about guarantees, about justice for parents, but do you really believe that an external agency can give those guarantees? Your Honor, I believe that the legislative function is much more serious and requires much more rigour than you have used today in this bill. Education and training are gradually created, it is a whole process, and the control and authority that you propose with this agency will certainly not guarantee that there is that freedom that you are manifesting right now. Control and authority, of course, are not exercised with an external agency, but are being created day by day, it is an educational principle, in which the educational environment, of course, has a great influence. Therefore, this agency that you propose is not going to solve anything, none of the problems that you supposedly consider to exist in the Spanish educational system. In short, its proposal for a law is inadmissible, it has neither legislative consistency nor sufficient educational arguments nor administrative justification. The assignment of functions to an independent administrative authority at the state level is on economic sectors. Or does that also not know him? Moreover, it must be accompanied by a clear consensus, with which, by the way, its proposal for a law does not count. In addition, it would require substantial funding for functions that are already covered by the system we have in Spain at the same time. In other words, what is intended is to duplicate, replace public functions with external agents. We do not understand, Your Honor, the desire of this Citizens Group to control, centralize and outsource services. Ladies and gentlemen, we also have enough measures already to ensure compliance with the law because, despite what you say, there have been previous governments that have been concerned to establish mechanisms of control and rigour to ensure that no illegality is committed in the education system, and so the education system has been functioning in recent years, very properly. To conclude, we also find it very dangerous to use the Constitution in this matter. They talk about the constitutional function of high inspection. If not even in the Constitution reference is made to the High Educational Inspectorate! Reference is made to inspection, but not to high inspection. Moreover, they affirm, and I quote literally, that it can only be exercised properly by independent authority and will act on objective criteria of legality, without opportunistic political distraction. Almost nothing! That is, an absolute mistrust of the functioning of the State administration. So practically all state activity would be under suspicion? Do they want to leave the various administrations of the State without competence? Is that what they're trying to do? That every time there is some kind of problem you have to create an external agency to control what you understand is not working properly. Well, honestly, I think it's a real barbarity. [[Rumors]] We find it regrettable and shameful that they use education for a handful of votes, Your Honor, for a handful of votes. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Alluding to specific cases, in Catalonia at the gates of an electoral campaign. With your media campaign and with these initiatives you will no doubt make clear what is your real interest in the education of this country and I will sum it up: zero. The position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group vis-à-vis this nonsense of this proposal for a law is clear. Ladies and gentlemen, we ask you to start working seriously for the education of this country with responsibility, to focus on what are the real educational problems of this country and to work with all the parliamentary groups within the subcommittee in which we are trying to achieve an educational pact. We are, of course, in this, but it seems, according to the facts that are being presented to us lately, of course, we doubt, and for many reasons, the sincerity of their commitment to an educational pact and to the facts, of course, we refer. This, ladies and gentlemen, is no urgency, this is simply the urgency of seeking electoral revenue at the expense of education, and proof of this is that you have been in this rostrum defending this initiative, this bill, you, which has nothing to do with the education system and you have nothing to do with education. [[Rumors]] So, Mr. Rivera, we're not going to be found on this initiative. You have undoubtedly already demonstrated and are demonstrating what you give of yourself as a new party: demagogy, vavenes, opportunism and superficiality. That's all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u8	Mr Rivera has the floor in turn for a reply or correction.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u9	Thank you, Madam President. How nervous! How many nerves after thirty-seven years without doing anything. [[Applauds]] It's okay; you defend what Squerra Republicana defends and we want to defend what the Constitution says. It's legitimate that they want tripartites with Republican Left. Hey! You gave Don Ernest Maragall the education competition and the Republican Left the second tripartite. It is legitimate that they want to agree with the nationalists, but I do not; and it is legitimate that they want a nation of nations, but I do not. Don't think they're the center of the world. There is more life outside the Socialist Party; in fact, there is more and more life outside the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] As for the educational pact, welcome! They have also had thirty-seven years to propose a Commission for an educational pact and have never done so because the sectarianism they distill has not wanted an educational pact to exist. Some thought that education had to be as conservatives wanted and others as socialists wanted and not as Citizens proposed in the creation of this Commission: an educational pact. Now, I'll tell you one thing. Do not confuse an educational pact with an educational pastel. An educational pact is to ensure the equality of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] And if you thought that our educational pact was going to be with Esquerra and Bildu, you are also wrong, because you wanted to be with the Socialist Party, with the People's Party, with the parties we thought - I say it in the past because you are showing less and less country project - that with differences we had a project for Spain, but I see no. [[Applauds]] You are flattered by the PSC and the PSC, as happened last time, you have told them that we must vote against this and you have come up here without reading the law, without reading the Constitution and you have invented things. He says the Constitution doesn't say anything about this. But how can he not say anything! I've read it to you, but if you want, I'll read it again. I don't have much time. Article 27.8 - take note, read it - the High Inspection of the State which you have not developed. And what fear are they of being state officials and technicians? What do you prefer, Carod-Rovira? Carod-Rovira likes to watch education better? [[Applauds]] They have put the gentlemen of Esquerra Republicana, who have given a blow to democracy, to monitor compliance with the Education Act in Spain. Well, of course, it's normal what happened, but it's that we don't want to go that way, we don't want to go that way, and Citizens, who have all the freedom to make a proposal that's different from what you've made these years, that's how it does. You talk about a handful of votes. Won't you suggest that the Spaniards want this law? Aren't you saying that the Spaniards want this law? [[Applauds]] I am convinced that you are right, that there are many Socialists and voters in the Socialist Party who also want this law, as I am also convinced that there are many people in the Socialist Party who do not understand the stellations that I have drawn here, who do not understand what the textbooks say. Why do you defend him? I really do not understand, beyond its alliance with the Socialist Party of Catalonia, with the PSC, how a party that wants to govern Spain can defend the barbarities that it has brought to this rostrum. And they talk about isolated cases. Yes, isolated cases one after the other, because the isolated cases together all they denote is that the laws are not enforced. How afraid the Socialist Party and other groups in this House - I insist - are to comply with the organic law that came out of here. What a fear they have of defending the Spanish Constitution. It's all right; I know it's been hard for them to implement the Constitution. I know, we've all been jealous of applying the Constitution. Neither the DUI nor 155 nor all this that the PSC has imposed on them. I am not to blame that you have a pact with a nationalist party; we are not to blame the rest of the Spaniards that the Spanish Socialist Workers Party has handed over the policy of state to the Socialist Party of Catalonia and, since we are not to blame for their alliances with a nationalist party, we have the right and the obligation to develop the Constitution. I repeat to you again in case you have not understood: we will not omit, as you have done for thirty-seven years, the development of our Constitution, we will not look elsewhere. And when they talk about using education, that's what we complain about, how education in some Spanish territories has been used precisely to go against this Constitution. We have seen posters against the Constitution and against democracy, political propaganda. Is it okay for you to have political propaganda in a school? Not to me, it doesn't feel right. A school is sacred, the place where your children, mine and everyone else have to go to think, to educate, to train and not to indoctrinate or to manipulate. We want them to learn to think and not to teach them what to think. We want you to learn, in freedom, critical thinking and that needs a guaranteed education with the Constitution. They have for many years - the People's Party has not done so either for those pacts with the nationalists - destroying the High Inspection of the State, the guarantees that a Constitution has to protect education. We're not gonna stop doing this. We have brought this law here and we will continue to work. If you leave us with one abstention and withdraw the amendment, we will be able to discuss all that you say you do not like. It's legitimate that he doesn't like the whole law. We have abstained in many of your laws to debate them and, if you bring laws to debate here, sometimes we process and speak them. But you have come up here nervous, without arguments, without reading the law and with the speech of Republican Left. That's very complicated. Empowering on the one hand and now the pacts with the nationalists prevent the Socialist Party from being a state party. Therefore, I ask you to be a state party again. You told me I went up to this rostrum today to defend education. Of course. For the chairman of a parliamentary group that matters education, it is essential to talk about education in his country. If Mr. Sanchez isn't here, it's not my fault. He's the one who quit. It's not my fault he can't come up. [[Applauds]] Don't worry, we will continue to defend public education, free, universal, quality, in equality and freedom for all Spaniards. I will rise and rise to this rostrum as many times as it takes to try to convince you better than what the separatists have convinced you and I hope that one day the Socialist Party will be an ally and not an obstacle to the development of the High State Education Inspectorate. For now, you are a great obstacle. They could do the same as in the investiture and it is not a question of not abstaining. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u10	Thank you very much. Mrs Martinez Seijo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rivera, I'm afraid it was you who didn't read your own bill. [[Applauds]] If I had read it and internalized it, I wouldn't say the barbarities you said. There's nowhere to take this bill. They try to find solutions to problems that are being generated by themselves. They are looking for solutions with an agency outside the education system that will certainly not solve any of the educational problems that this country has. Don't give us any lessons about the educational pact, which you're the ones twisting it. Do I have to remind you what is the only party that has been working for an educational pact in Spain? The Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] The Socialist Party. The LOE was worked with the entire educational community and with the support of all parliamentary groups, except that of the People's Parliamentary Group. We work intensively with teachers in the classroom, which is how to work on a bill that covers the education of this country. I have come to talk about this proposal for a law that is about education, because what you intend to do is to create an agency that controls the education system in Spain; I repeat, that controls the education system in Spain. I prefer that our students have a critical spirit and that they are trained as serious and responsible citizens. But for that there has to be confidence in the teachers of this country, there has to be confidence in the management teams of this country and there has to be confidence in the educational inspection that exists in this country and that you are questioning. Don't give us any kind of lesson about how education works in Spain. Indeed, we are waiting for you with real proposals within the subcommittee, working in a coordinated and coherent manner with consensual proposals, and not as you intend to do here, which is to come and impose a body of law - I am serious about it - that does not respect the competences of the State or of the autonomous communities. [[Applauds]] Let go of the election campaign. We have not yet entered the electoral campaign. His plumer has been seen very clearly. He's using this country's education. Go to Catalonia to campaign and don't come to Congress of Deputies to play with the education of Spain. [[Applauds]] That is what we are talking about and not just about problems that you consider to exist and that you want to resolve externally with control and censorship. I believed that the censorship had disappeared from the educational centers at the time of the dictatorship and it seems that now they want to bring it back to us. Controlling an inspection and an external agency will not solve the problems that are being generated in the context, environment and social environment, because families also influence them. Your Honor, that's how the education system is formed, that's how the education system is built, with cooperative work among all. You can't look away. You have to look at it in its entirety. Don't talk about propaganda or not propaganda. What we need to talk about is a civic education to form critical and welcome citizens be you if you defend the model of recovering the subject of Education for Citizenship. In constitutional rights, yes; in civic values, too; in democratic rights, too; and of course in human rights. All this will possibly give you what you seem to want to achieve, which is serious, responsible and non-manipulable citizens. Nothing more. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u12	Thank you very much. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u13	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. There are two points on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary that revolve around the High Educational Inspectorate, whose services are based on the Spanish Constitution, the Law on the Organization and Operation of the General Administration of the State, the Law on Education, the LOE, and also on a series of royal decrees and regulations regulating high inspections in all the autonomous communities. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group proposes to take into consideration a law for the creation of what would be called the high educational inspection agency, an independent agency. Forum disagrees with this proposal defended by Mr Rivera because he believes that education can never be independent in its management and forecasting. It would be ironic to call services which depend precisely on the same powers independent of the public authorities. However, we believe that it is appropriate to recall that the High Educational Inspectorate has two large blocks of functions, a first block covering the supervision of the school system in the autonomous communities and a second block on bureaucratic functions to manage the approval and issue of foreign degrees and studies, which is the responsibility of the State. This second block was the one that gained the most weight, because with regard to the first, the one on supervision, all governments were wrinkled to avoid educational conflicts with the autonomous communities, especially Catalonia and Euskadi. For us, the reinforcement that should be urgently undertaken should focus on monitoring the school system in the autonomous communities with the capacity to act in the centres, albeit with nuances. We therefore believe that it is not necessary to create any independent agency and I will vote against this consideration. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u14	Thank you very much. I also have the floor for the same group, Mr Salvador Armendáriz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, today we are discussing two almost similar initiatives on the same subject, the role of high inspection. This has two readings, one negative, and it is clear that we do not agree on something we should be, that it is the role of high inspection and instrumental use that some do on education, and another more positive, and that we are going to discuss it at least twice and, therefore, we will have more opinion after hearing what we each think about a problem that, in fact, is not solved and that breaks political unity, breaks social harmony, makes many people's lives worse and forms part of the diabolical business of separation. In any case, we hope that by Thursday we can reach some kind of agreement, because we must do something to prevent the perverted use of education for political purposes, confrontation, separation and division through lies and misrepresentation. We believe that it is better to strengthen the positions of the high inspection than not to create a new body. It would be logical for the inspection to carry out its functions, not look elsewhere and collaborate with the autonomous communities. Therefore, beyond the instrument that we will finally choose, and we will not reject the debate that will be held, we believe it is more appropriate to facilitate a broad consensus on this issue and to remove it from the electoral dialectic. As I say, let us not prejudge the solution, but we are going to ask for a scrupulous respect for the autonomous competences, in this case of the outside community, in the same way that we are not going to collaborate to leave unpunished spaces of indoctrination under the cover of an excuse of competences that nobody owns. We've never done it, and we're not doing it right now either. We are therefore in favour and will not prevent this debate from taking place, but we ask that, being a trunk issue and a very important problem today, we all make an effort to agree on the best instrument. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u17	Thank you very much, Madam President. Euskal Herria Bildu's vote is going to be against this bill, and I also anticipate that we do not like the Constitution. We are greatly displeased by article 2, article 8 or article 155. But not only is that why we are going to vote against this bill. We will do so because there are plenty of arguments and, as you were told before, because the context also marks the agenda. And this is framed in a total offensive against the Catalan school. Yesterday it was against the Basque; today against the Catalan; tomorrow against all that school that decides to create in its territory and to create an educational model alien or far from the ideological imposition, of ideological indoctrination, which they want to impose on us from unionism or constitutionalism. It is not true that the framework in which we live today is a framework without interference. There you go. There are interferences in public job offers; there are interferences when it is decided that more than 50 per cent of the curriculum is decided by the Ministry of Education. What is needed, in any case, is no longer control, but more trust in educators and the educational community. And, of course, what needs at least Basque education, which is what worries us, is a country agreement; ours, not yours, so that sooner or later we will stop suffering authoritarian and doctrinal proposals like this. Mr. Rivera, your attitude in the atril reminded me of Eduardo Galeano, who said that when the Spanish conquerors arrived in America with a Bible and the Indians had the land. They asked them to close their eyes and pray. When they opened their eyes, the Indians had the Bible, but the Spanish conquerors had all the land. This is not going to happen to you at Euskal Herria, and it's certainly not going to happen to you elsewhere. We're not leaving them. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u18	Thank you very much. Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u19	Thank you, President. Mr. Rivera, have you seen Gru, my favorite villain? If you haven't seen it you can look at it, because Citizens are like Los Minions, at the service of the People's Party, at the service of their favorite villain. [[Applauds]] They do everything, even what the People's Party is ashamed to do. Always to the rescue of the villain; all the dirty work, undemocratic, re-centralizing, makes him Citizens. And lately, with education they have a special fixation. Of course, it is an autonomous competition just where the People's Party has lost quite a few governments. Now, they want to create an educational police so that the People's Party can control from Madrid what it couldn't control in the autonomous ballot boxes. Always at the service of your villain. Look, what is immoral is to dismantle public education; it is to give concerts to right and wrong; it is to pass a law, such as the Wert law, where the word competitiveness appears rather than the word right. Is that really what Citizens want? Is that what you want, that the inspection, in the end, is a placement agency in order to have public schools in barracks and to be able to market with public education? Is that what you want? In addition, they have nothing to worry about, the People's Party is already seriously disrupting progressive policies since the Constitutional Court. They're already doing it! But you, of course, at the service of your favorite villain, the People's Party; to give governments when they play, to approve general budgets when they play, and to create educational police when they play. We have fantastic professionals in inspection and education, and our entire faculty is very good. So stop saving the People's Party, because this villain gets used to it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Miquel and Valenti have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u21	Wow, Albert, wow! I thought it was good news that they had removed Mr. Singed from the educational subjects, but Mr. Singed from the 'Memes' makes speeches, but you are much more serious, because you come here to lie. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz shows a copy of the 1978 Spanish Constitution]] Yes, well, among other things, because you are a son of the Catalan educational system; something that shows the failure of the Catalan educational system in its will to indoctrinate. [[Applauds]] You, Mrs Montserrat, Mr Roldán, are all children of the Catalan education system and all, thanks to the will of the Catalan education system to create free and critical citizens come here. Whenever you want, I can tell you the difference between the Catalan Countries and the Catalan-speaking territories. Whenever you want, I'll tell you. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you have been raised this week as a defender of the Statut d'Autonomie de Catalunya, and I wonder: Have you read it to you? Have you read Article 131 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, where it is said that inspection is the exclusive competence of the Generalitat of Catalonia? Have you read it to him? You haven't read it to him! [[Applauds]] Your party was born with the will to end with a very concrete educational system that has more than a hundred years of history, which was inspired by the model of Maria Montessori and which was built with the help of teachers like Rosa María Sensat, Mr Triadú and so many others that you today want to cancel. Mr. Rivera, look me in the eye. Mr. Rivera, you have the heart... [[Mr. Rivera Díaz shows again the picture in which they look starry next to a school]] I've seen this picture three times. Look me in the eye. Do you have the nerve to say that the Catalan system indoctrinates in thought and ideology when you are a child of that educational system? [[Applauds]] That's the answer. Mr. Roldán dares to say that the Catalan system indoctrinates when he is a son of the Catalan educational system? Tell me something. Do yourself a favor...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u22	Mr. Miquel.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u23	I'm finishing up, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u24	One second, Your Honor. It has to end because it has exceeded its time.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u25	...and his party's education spokespersons... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u26	For the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV, Mr Aguirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of the Citizens' Group, Mr Rivera, you are delighted to have reappeared in politics, to be called to save Spain, to be sent to rescue the Spanish health from inequity, from the abominable fiscal inequality that infuse Basques - also shipwrecks, of course - and to rescue the sacrosanct values of Spanish national education from the perfidious hands of autonomies such as Euskadi or Catalonia and to put it back under the cloak of the State, of that single, indivisible, centralized State, with which you dream every day, a State in which nations different from Spanish, including languages, and of course dangerous non-Spanish identities, are left. You're obsessed, Mr. Rivera. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: A lot!-Show a chart]] You, who so much appeals to the Constitution, on Thursday you have the opportunity to vote something that says the Constitution that we have, which is the Law of quota. [[Applauds]] Therefore, you propose the adoption of a proposal for a law for the creation of an independent agency to assume the functions of the High Educational Inspectorate. The high inspection agency would be so independent that it would be attached to the Ministry of Education. Very independent, surely. This is part of his DNA as a party: establishing control mechanisms. You just want control mechanisms, especially to empower the State Administration and subjugate the autonomous communities, or at least some, that we all know what they are. The proposal for a law that you are presenting says that, given the jurisdictional division operated by the so-called constitutional bloc, it confers on the State the competence of the high inspection to achieve the constitutional objective of ensuring the fulfilment of the obligation of the public authorities in this area, that is, in the right to education. You pose a perversion of what you say because we know what it is to ensure rights and education, but what you claim is something else. The situation obviously does not pass by chance and the situation that we are experiencing and that we have lived in Catalonia for you has been ideal to sell that in the classrooms, as in the educational system itself, proselytism is done, certain ideas are instilled, etc. What you are doing now is purely electoral and the truth is that buzzing Catalonia is free bar, and when this happens it has some sort of rise, and you are already several times in this rostrum, either through motions, or through another series of issues, whether in health, or in education, and with the subject of taxation with Euskadi. Those three are your banners, and that's how they work, and in the end they don't get the support or the support you think they are. In any case, the objective of refocusing is very clear. More than aimed at improving coexistence, his proposal is aimed at carrying out a pure and hard process of re-centralization and standardization of education and the educational system in general. In Euskadi we are competent in the field of education. The Autonomous Communities have assumed responsibility for education, and as far as the Autonomous Community of Euskadi is concerned, a self-education system has been built based precisely on the development of these competences granted by the Gernika Statute of Autonomy. Thus, the education and training of people is materialized through the exclusive competences of all educational and cultural policies, integrating all dimensions of training, education at all levels and regulated, occupational and continuing vocational training. But there is one more basic thing still, which is an agreement of the Euskadi educational community, which participates in that project. It is not the government, it is the teachers, it is the parents, it is the unions, it is the centers, it is the community that says what kind of education we want for Basques and Basques. I know that you are very upset that this is so, because you would love it not to be so, you would love it to depend on the state and not to be a competition for which the autonomous communities that have the right to do so could decide what kind of education they want, what curriculum they want to do. You, who speak so much of the law, respect it, because what you are bringing here now is precisely that, not respecting the law that is currently in force. Education is a matter shared between the State and the autonomous communities, which implies that, with the exception of those aspects that are the competence of the State... Yeah, sure, but what happens then? That more and more competitions are being invaded. Two routes are being used by the State to invade these powers. On the one hand, a reduction in the margin of competition by drawing up regulatory provisions which are considered to be of a basic nature and therefore of compulsory application. Thus, the capacity of the State is growing because it says that it is normative and that the space of the autonomous communities in this area is being reduced more and more. And if it is not the Government, it is already the Constitutional Court that is responsible for the substantive competence of the State. On the other hand, through the judicialization of decisions. The Basque Government can make decisions, which are judicialized and automatically resolved in the way we all know. The bill presented at the Congress seems to open up a new avenue of interference without any doubt in the competences of the autonomous communities in the field of education. Recantralization and standardization, that is what you claim with this proposal of law. And then we'll talk about what's next, because here it looks like a championship to see who's more in this area, and then we have another debate on the same thing. This proposal - I have to finish with an implicit question that is something very serious, a question of the work of the educational inspection that the autonomous communities have. You are saying that those who are currently engaged in this are not worth anything, and that is a very serious way of underestimating the work of people, of underestimating the work of centres, educators, autonomous inspectors at the moment. Because their work, the work of the faculty, the work of the management teams and the centres are being questioned. Why is the state, this new one that you propose, going to be more equitable, more diligent, more objective than it is at the moment? Or is what you claim to be an active part of the defence of what you have already established politically? Let's see if that's it. That is, it is an educational police what you intend to pose; not an inspection, an educational police. I would like to end by saying that we are not going to accept as many educational resources as we are considering, this margin which is increasingly narrowing for communities and widening for the State. You would already like it to be complete, and that the entire Spanish State directly had the same educational model, the same hours, the same curriculum, the same textbooks and the same orientation. That is why, Mr Rivera, we consider it unnecessary to incorporate into the legislation this trap project which says one thing and hides another. Although, on second thought, he doesn't hide anything either, he makes everything very clear.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u28	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u29	Alcalá Galiano said that the Spanish nation had to be made a nation, since it was neither, nor had ever been. Therefore, you have to refer to the State, but you lack the nation, because you believe that there is a nation and there are many nations. That's right, they have the state. We'll vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u31	MPs, MPs, President, Demosthenes, Athenian politician, at the beginning of her First Philippia said that if the topic were new she would listen instead of talking. In fact, when I heard Mr. Rivera, this appointment was changed to one of Cicero's: How long will he abuse our patience? [[Laughter.-Applause from the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left and the Joint Parliamentary Group PDeCAT]] You have already seen, spokesman for the Socialist Group, the true face of Albert Rivera and of Citizens. Soon, gentlemen of the People's Party, it seems to me that you too will know it. That's your face, that's your face; it's the one that uses a matter as important as education, with which I have points of agreement with the spokesman for Citizens in the Commission. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz: The one in Puigdemont]] In education we have many coincidences, not with Mr Albert Rivera, because education is a pretext, it is a pretext to talk about his book; it is a book that we in Catalonia have known for nine years, but it was presented as a new book in Spain, recently published, had a smell of ink and even the Socialist Party agreed with them thinking they were regenerationists. Regenerationists! No, they've seen it, they weren't. The only thing they want is to have a space in the Spanish political space and, lately, the smoke has gone up and wants to have a lot of space in the Spanish Parliament. You see the foot you spend! It's about looking for a pretext, the Constitution as a pretext, apart from blending the Constitution - in fact Mao did, right?, blended the Red Book; in this case it's Petete's Fat Book - saying that he's the only one able to interpret it. You, who have been ruling for many years, did not really know what the Constitution was until Albert Rivera arrived! [[Mr. Rivera Díaz shows a copy of the Spanish Constitution]] Open your eyes, open your eyes, you'll finally know. Look, wanting to legislate from political opportunism, from grudge it's bad in general, but in education it's catastrophic. According to Citizens all schools are suspicious, all; all inspectors are suspicious and therefore there must be a Great Brother - Orwell -, a Great Brother who watches them. Remember that each teacher may have to have a small television that measures what he is going to say and if it suits him not the Constitution, but Mr. Albert Rivera. [[Laughter.-Applause from the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left]] I suppose he himself would propose himself as a major inspector, he would be the best candidate, no doubt, for this independent agency. Because Mr. Rivera is very independent, you see, once he deals with one another and again he deals with another, he's very independent. [[Applauds.-Mr. Rivera Díaz: Or we propose to Mr. Junqueras]] So who better to chair this Commission? Fortunately, as the Members who are here think a lot - and we think well - about education, we will disgust Mr Rivera because, as we think about education, although we think differently, we do not play with education, we do not turn it into an experiment to turn this country into an explosive. [[Several Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group: Nooooo!]] We won't, it won't. I had here some lines on inspection, on the model of educational inspection, in Catalonia and in the Basque Country. Thursday I was in Valladolid, in college, and I was fine. And I thought, after talking to the students and the teachers, what a good thing it would be if there weren't so many arsonists and there weren't so many Catalanophobes, if you didn't squeeze people for spurious ideas just for pulling out some more congressman, for pulling out some more congressman. [[Applauds]] Because, as those who take longer know, this is ephemeral because what goes up, goes down and I hope it goes down a lot, because things are different to what one considers ambition. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz speaks words that are not perceived]] Freedom of education can be proclaimed to all four winds and a system of authoritarian control can be created. Is that possible? Yeah. Citizens have the trademark because hypocrisy is more important, when they don't care about the means to get votes or to go on some TV show. Sad times when we have to fight for what is evident. Yeah, it's hard to fight for what's obvious, but we won't budge on it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u33	Thank you, President, good afternoon to everyone and everyone. Mr. Rivera, do you know what this is? [[Showing a white chalk]] This is a chalk, Mr. Rivera. With these chalks our teachers have written the best forty years of democracy in our country. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz shows a copy of the Spanish Constitution]] And how do Citizens pay for it? Persecuting them, criminalizing them and trying to impose a political police within our classrooms. [[Applauds]] Mr Rivera, in this chalk I see the opportunity to build a more just and cohesive society. Mr. Rivera here what you see is a weapon of indoctrination, and it's that you happen to that of the Campoamor law, that law which affirms: 'In this traitorous world / nothing is truth or lie / everything is according to the color / crystal with which you look'. [[Mr Rivera Díaz again shows the photocopy of a page of a textbook on the Catalan countries]] And your crystal, the crystal of Citizens, is a crystal, Mr. Rivera, deeply indoctrinated. Don't teach me your little papers that we know you paint and color very well, and you spend a lot of money on those kind of messages here. [[Laughter]] [[Applauds]] What you present here today is the law against the Catalan school. That's what Citizens present. To end the precariousness of the faculty, to lower the ratios within the classroom, the necessary shielding of the inclusive school to guarantee equity, to double the funding of the educational system by reversing the ideological cuts of the PP or to improve the facilities by eliminating the barracks, against which you are unable to bring to this Congress not one of our proposals. Visit, Mr Rivera, for once in your life, a public school in Spain and see the reality of our educational institutions, because what you do is the dirty work of the People's Party. Invite the most corrupt president in Europe, make up lies about indoctrination, and bring proposals that, as an exaggeration, focus on the proposals of the People's Party. You are irresponsible and are clearly using your bulls against indoctrination as the central axis of your electoral campaign in Catalonia. The other day, Mrs. Arrimadas said she wanted to be the president of all Catalans, independenceists and non-independenceists. Then go to the president, who comes to insult the Catalans and call us indoctrinate! [[Applauds]] That's what you, Mr. Rivera, are doing. They present - see - a proposal that the only thing that pursues is to re-centralize the educational model and, moreover, with an economic cost that we have calculated in more than 3 million euros; 600 000 euros in salaries for high offices, that is what Citizens propose. [[Several Members of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group: Uuuhhhh!]] Those who came to eliminate the deputies and the regional councils propose a new institution that costs 3 million euros each year. Do you know, Mr Rivera, how many scholarships we could guarantee with 3 million euros, how many scholarships to university, how many educational inclusion programs, how many aids in textbooks and school materials? Really, Mr. Rivera, at a time when many fellow teachers have had to pay out of their pocket the students' breakfast or the students' excursions because the families do not arrive at the end of the month you pose an agency that costs us 3 million euros? Really, Mr. Rivera, do you have that little political shame? Do you really want to end indoctrination in our educational system? [[Mr. Rivera Díaz speaks words that are not perceived]] Help us. On the text books, I'm going to read you a text quote from a third ESO text book that says: Scientific studies show that homosexuality and heterosexuality are not comparable from the point of view of health. Or the one who says Machado left Spain and that Lorca died. Against that, you don't even say mu. [[Mr. Rivera Díaz makes negative gestures and gives several strokes on the cheek.-Applause]] They keep quiet and accept these indoctrinations in our educational system, because you are not interested in that, what you are interested in, Mr Rivera, is to come here and campaign in Catalonia. If you want to campaign, pay with your party's money, don't pay with what a session of this Congress of Deputies costs. Look, if you really want to end indoctrination in schools, help us, Mr Rivera, to end the millions of public euros that are going to pay for the indoctrination of the fifty-nine Opus Dei schools that are still in Spain. [[Applauds]] Against these privileges you remain silent and approve the budgets of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] These days I did an exercise - we came here to talk so much about the Catalan educational model that I would no longer know what else to tell you, if you hadn't found out - and I asked people about social media. Blanca Rovira tells me: In 2006 only 14.9% of Catalans declared independence and in 2013, tripled. Mariano Rajoy came to power in 2012. Is the rise of independence caused by indoctrination of children who cannot yet vote or by their partner, M. Rajoy? Angels Pérez tells us: Remind them of: There are people who do not like to be spoken, written or thought of in Catalan. It's the same people who don't like to be spoken, written or thought about. [[Applauds]] That's what happens to you. I want to finish, Mr. Rivera, gentlemen of the PP and Citizens. Politically, you're cynics - let me tell you this. We are working within the parliamentary subcommittee of the Education Pact, a possible state pact. It will be difficult, it will be very laborious, we will have and we are having a lot of work; I do not know if from now on, Mr Rivera, you who know so much about education, will come to the work sessions of the Education Pact, because to come to this rostrum and talk about education, Mr Rivera, you have to know about education, you have to know what is being talked about. [[Mr Rivera Díaz speaks words that are not perceived, while again showing the photocopy with the map of the Catalan countries.-Applause]] You make it clear: You don't want any state pact, you're just trying to pretend you're not going to get it. If you really wanted a state pact, Citizens would withdraw this bill and the PP would withdraw its GNP, because you seem to be 1 fighting in a mud pool for something as miserable as lies about indoctrination. [[Caps and caps]] [[Rumors]] I'm done. I don't know how to tell you anymore, in Spanish, in Catalan? If you want, Mr Rivera, I'll tell you on your knees: Stop using education as a bold political weapon. The political representatives have to be responsible. We're citizens, we're not idiotized beings, we're easily indoctrinable. Ana Frank said - imagine if they didn't try with her -: 'The final formation of a person's character resides in his own hands'. For that, stop trying to scare and control who only has this chalk as a weapon - this is the only weapon - and work, Mr Rivera, so that education is an element of equal opportunity and a genuine right for all citizens, because today, unfortunately, it is not yet. [[Showing a white chalk again]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the European United Left-In-Communicate Podemos-En Marea, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u34	I will ask Mr. Mena Arca to withdraw from the Journal of Sessions the word he said: 1. [[Caps and caps]] [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u35	No, Mrs. Rivera... Oh, excuse me! Madam Pastor, excuse me. [[Risa.- Mrs. Rodríguez Hernández, Ms. Melisa: It's obsession!]] I...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u36	Mr Mena, you don't have the floor yet. I'll give it to you now, then, but you still don't have the floor. [[A Member of the European Parliament: Respect]] The name of the Presidency is Pastor and, therefore, when it refers to the Presidency, you can call me by my name, by my name, by my full name or by my president. But what I ask you to do is to withdraw the expression that I understand that, out of parliamentary courtesy and in accordance with the respect that we all have, we must withdraw from the Journal of Sessions. You know why? Because from here we have to set an example. It is precisely in an educational debate that we must set an example for all citizens and especially for the younger ones. Now I give you the floor. Does Mr. Mena remove that expression? 1 Word withdrawn from the Journal of Meetings in accordance with Rules 103.1 and 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u37	Thank you, President. First, I want to apologize. I've got your last name mixed up. I know that you are Mrs Ana Pastor and President of this House. Second element, I didn't call anyone 2. [[cap]] I'd like you to review the Journal of Sessions. I have used a metaphor, and the Spanish language is very rich. I said they're 'like'. I'm not insulting anyone and I think it's...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u38	Mr. Mena, I haven't asked you to explain. I've only asked you to tell me whether or not to remove it.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u39	I don't take it back because I understand it was a metaphor. [[Señor Cantó García del Moral: Curseful!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u40	All right. The President will withdraw the statement from the Journal of Sessions. Thank you very much. Let's keep going. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. I beg your silence. I have the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alós López.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u41	Thank you, President. Mr. Mena, to be a teacher, you have quite a bad education. [[Mr. Cantó García del Moral: Yes]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are again debating the High Educational Inspectorate and nothing less than the consideration of a bill tabled by the Citizens' Group to create a High Inspection Agency. We all know that work is under way on the Sub-Committee on the Education Pact, where we will try to reach a consensus over the coming months on a report that will enable the final legislative reform of education in our country. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, Mr Rivera, we do not believe that this is the best way to reach agreements, and without agreements we will not improve anything. You are demonstrating in recent weeks that political opportunism is far above your will for agreements. They began with an inquiry into the Minister of Education, in which they had little to blame for the serious cases of harassment suffered by pupils in some Catalan classrooms after 1 October. The following week, they submitted for approval a motion calling for the reform of the regulatory framework for high inspection. Our group tried to negotiate with you an amendment that technically improved your text and significantly reinforced your proposal, because at the bottom of the motion we agreed, and they did not even want to sit down and talk. Meanwhile, in the Valencian Community, as my colleague reminded him, they did not support the measures with similar objectives proposed by the People's Party. The next day they presented this bill to create a high inspection agency, by the way, without having made a single mention of it in the motion that had been debated the previous day. Mr Rivera, you want to make it clear that you are the only ones who want to protect the rights and freedoms of students in this country, and in particular of Catalans, and we are witnessing a measured, deliberate and interested overaction, because you are only looking for electoral revenue. We also bring to debate today a non-law proposal on high inspection, but it is a proposal to be studied and agreed within the Education Pact; that is the difference. The improvisation of his proposition which he spoke of is not an unfounded impression, but after a reading of it it can be seen that his articulation only deals with creating the agency, as you call it. The functions and competences assigned to it or already covered by the law or some powers would not be effective due to the necessary reform of the competence framework of the autonomous communities and their essential agreement. As regards the protection of complainants, as they put it, it implies interference with the independence of the inadmissible prosecutor's office. Because yes, the agency could address the prosecutor's office in order to interest its action as proposed by the high inspection, but this would be the one that would resolve the matter according to the principle of legality. They draft this bill with the justification of the lack of independence of the high inspection and state that the independence of the high inspection will be that of its high offices, but nothing guarantees in its proposal the independence of the persons who will be elected who, by the way, may not be officials or inspectors. Don't they trust them? 2 Word withdrawn from the Journal of Meetings in accordance with Rules 103.1 and 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. That is, they are implicitly assuming that the high inspection is not independent and that it is the Government that has not let it act. For as the minister told them in his inquiry, the ministry through the high inspection has acted and will always act with all the force that the law allows, demanding responsibilities and protecting victims of harassment. This is what has been done, and it will be the justice that will judge against those who have violated the rights of minors. But our group denies the greatest, ladies and gentlemen, the High Inspection of the State acts with absolute independence, with objective criteria of legality, avoiding any kind of opportunism and political distraction, that is, within the functions and competences conferred on it by the law, which are limited and therefore we propose to develop them. It is the educational inspection of some autonomous community, such as Catalonia, where it has not acted independently. Mr Rivera, I ask you: In the Catalan Parliament, where you have been here for more than ten years, have you ever proposed an educational inspection agency to guarantee your neutrality and independence? Because we have already checked that children have not been protected there, that textbooks have not been monitored, that the requirements of the high inspection have not been met, and when one of the inspectors dared to report indoctrination in the classroom, a file would be opened quickly by the Government of the Generalitat. By the way, the Minister, within the powers which he has in a transitional way, has already closed. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is the lack of loyalty of some autonomous communities, some autonomous governments, because others have developed their competences with absolute loyalty over the years. In the performance of their competences of Education they have abused the confidence that they were granted as part of the State they are. Because yes, ladies and gentlemen, there has been indoctrination in the Catalan classrooms, as has already been described in the last debates of these weeks, there are also beginning to be complaints already, by the way, in the Balearic Islands and Valencia. The linguistic rights of children who wanted to learn in Spanish, as demonstrated by court rulings, have been diminished, and history has also been distorted and geography manipulated in the textbooks in Catalonia. Yes, history has been distorted and I cannot talk about this and stop telling you, as an Aragonese, to the independence groups that have ruled in Catalonia, that never, ever existed the Catalan-Aragonese crown, as you tell the students in your textbooks. [[Applauds]] Only the Kingdom of Aragon and the County of Barcelona existed and, after the marriage of Dona Petronila, daughter of the king of Aragon, with the Count of Barcelona, remained the Kingdom of Aragon, and it was his son who formed the Crown of Aragon. I will also tell you that the counties of Huesca, Ribagorza and Sobrarbe Province have never been Catalan counties as they appear in their ESO Second Geography books. In Aragon, ladies and gentlemen, we are already a little tired of you taking over what is not yours. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, visit the National Archaeological Museum, which celebrates its 150th anniversary. They will see that throughout the history of Spain, from prehistory to our day, Catalonia as such was never a kingdom nor a crown nor an independent country, no matter how much they strive. [[Rumors]] Catalonia was part of the Aragonese Crown and from it the Catalans contributed to the construction of a great state called Spain. I'm proud of that inheritance. I am proud of my Catalan neighbours who for centuries strengthened Spain; that is the true story and reinventing it is betraying their own people. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rivera, this proposal for a law does not solve these problems. Do we need to develop the functions of high inspection? Yes, absolutely agree, but we do not believe that the solution is the creation of an agency. With regard to the State School Council, several representatives within the subcommission have proposed to rethink the role of education inspection and high inspection. No one has proposed to set up an agency for that, Mr Rivera. It has already been agreed at the meetings of the subcommittee to treat this issue as one of the important points of the compact. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rivera, we believe that it is irresponsible to carry forward this proposal for a law outside the subcommittee if we really want the Education Pact to exist. But, in any case, today we are going to vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration, but only in the hope that, while it is being processed, we will reach an agreement in the subcommission of the Covenant for education and assume the result thereof in order to incorporate it into this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u42	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, amending Law 42/2015, of 5 October, reforming Law 1/2000, of 7 January, of civil action, to ensure the effectiveness of the acts of communication of the Ministry of Taxation. [[File number 122/000129]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u43	We continue with the item on the agenda for the consideration of the bill, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, amending Act No. 42/2015 of 5 October 2015 amending Act No. 1/2000 of 7 January 2015 on civil prosecution, to ensure the effectiveness of the communication acts of the prosecutor's office. Mrs Moro Almaraz has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Allow me, before addressing the subject of my speech, to give a sincere recognition here to the person of the doctor magistrate and prosecutor, José Manuel Maza. [[applause from the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group]] The Attorney General of the State, who died this weekend, is and has been a jurist with capitals, scholar, enthusiastic and tireless, eager to know to be useful, without concessions to never conclude with learning, because jurist is the one who cultivates the right without detaching himself from the life, needs and conflicts to which solutions must be attached. Our respect and consideration as a person, a lawyer and a public servant. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law presented by our group, which, on its behalf, I defend, is very simple, very concrete and with very clear objectives: to make compatible the so-called digitisation of justice with the adaptation of the many steps necessary to the reality of which it is based in each case, of the actions to be taken, and of the guarantees that are necessary at every moment so that the conditions of agility and legal certainty necessary for its implementation can be met. The purpose of the amendment we are proposing is to have a little more time to develop the necessary instruments and to successfully and safely develop the so-called digital taxation. Law 42/2015 introduced an amendment, as your lords know, to the Civil Prosecution Act 2000, and established the effectiveness of the communication acts carried out to the Prosecutor's Office from the next business day to the date of receipt that is recorded in the due diligence or in the accreditation of its receipt when the communication act has been carried out with the requirements set out in the article that was amended in that Law, 162 of the Civil Prosecution Act, and which refers to a new methodology or new protocol of electronic acts. On that basis, a regime for acts of communication has been established by electronic, computer or similar means. However, the forecasts of the effectiveness of notifications and communications are based on the fact that the communication document is correctly transmitted by such means, which should also imply the correct and verifiable transmission of the relevant documents, documents and allegations. At the time, in that process, through an amendment by the Senate, the Attorney General's Office revealed the need for an extension to the entry into force - more or less immediate - of each and every part of this legal amendment until 1 January 2018. The time that has elapsed since then has shown that the singularities that have already been demonstrated by the Attorney General's Office regarding the prosecutor's office in the processing, study, adoption and decision-making of the procedures in which the prosecutor intervenes, as well as the singularities of the Office of the Prosecutor resulting from the deployment in territories with different systems of procedural management and communication, then justified an extension and justify now that we ask - and this is the essential object of the proposed legal amendment - the extension of that measure which was designed - now too - on a transitional basis and for the justification of a correct technological implementation. On this basis, it is proposed to make the technical amendment to the fourth additional provision of Law 42/2015 in relation to such communication acts to the Public Prosecutor's Office so that the time limit of Article 151.2 as amended by that provision is maintained for the time being in ten calendar days. Within the framework of the digital transformation of justice project, an important piece is undoubtedly the digitisation of prosecutions, simplifying with these terms what they contain in themselves. It is the last phase, the last link that will allow the Ministry of Justice to close the implementation of Law 18/2011 in the so-called territory ministry, law that - let us remember - urges the administrations with jurisdiction in justice to have the technological tools for judges and prosecutors to do an electronic processing. Let us remember that, since the entry into force of that law, the widespread implementation of electronic communications has already been achieved within the judicial office, which has allowed more than 150 million electronic messages to be sent between judges and professionals since 1 January 2016. It has also been achieved that 91 per cent of the one-person bodies, 100 per cent of the provincial hearings and 100 per cent of the higher courts of justice in the ministry territory work in digital form. The prosecutors' offices are also seeking to provide a comprehensive response to the introduction of technologies for the processes that take place in the offices and in the work of prosecutors, a solution that began to be developed in 2016 by the Ministry of Justice at the request of the Attorney General's Office, which is the one that is determining the requirements to meet these applications. Through this digital prosecution programme, prosecutors are expected to have electronic processing throughout the life cycle of the case and the exchange of information with judicial bodies, thereby reducing the number of applications they work with daily. Notifications are received electronically, opinions are drawn up, signed with digital signature and files are displayed through the corresponding viewfinder. The implementation of this digital prosecutorial programme began in 2017 with a series of pilot programmes, among others in Valladolid and Badajoz, and a plan has been approved with the Attorney General's Office to progressively and without a solution of continuity to all the prosecutors' offices of the ministry territory and all those autonomous communities that show interest in adopting it. Moreover, from the moment that economic means have been available, all the most appropriate material means are being provided to enable prosecutors to work both in office and in mobility in accordance with this project. For this reason, the extension of the time limit we propose for the entry into force of the communication time provision under Law 42/2015 is necessary as soon as this implementation plan has to be completed, as well as the adaptation of organizational procedures and structures to ensure that prosecution offices can carry out their work effectively. It can be said perfectly that we also do so having listened to the demands of the various prosecution offices and prosecutors. We must push forward this project, which cannot be stopped, of modernising, updating and digitizing justice in Spain, but we must also know when some of these phases or steps have to be made wider, they have to be made with greater guarantees and they have to be made listening to professionals. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, we are presenting a proposal here with the request that it be dealt with in one reading. As the fees for this single reading procedure point out, the objective is clear and concrete, the scope of amendment of the standard and the modified standard are very precise and delimited, the extension of the text can be verified by all of you and, in addition, there is a need that stalks us on January 1, 2018 and that advises that the speeding up of the legislative process be carried out, done with this procedure and carried out, as has been done, with the collaboration of the groups. In this case, I would like to thank the Socialist Parliamentary Group in particular from this rostrum, but I hope to have the support of all - verbally some have already pointed out to me, as is the case with Citizens - because they understand the need and the request of the prosecutions. I therefore call on all other groups to join this approval. Justice will certainly appreciate it, the momentum and development of the modernization plan will be clearer, it will be possible to do so in due time and with the means needed for the work of our prosecution offices. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u45	Thank you very much. The joint parliamentary group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let me also say my first words to express on behalf of my party the sadness at the sudden death of the Attorney General, José Manuel Maza, no doubt a great statesman and an accredited public servant whose task Forum supported with his vote here at the plenary session of the Congress last May. We join in the dismay of his family, friends and companions. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, in summary, what is being promoted by this consideration is to extend the validity of a measure that addresses the uniqueities of the prosecutor's office in the processing, study, adoption and decision-making of the procedures in which it intervenes, as well as the uniqueities of the Office of the Prosecutor arising from its deployment in territories with different systems of procedural management and communication. Why is this measure essential? Because the timetable for the implementation of the digital prosecutor's office has come down, it has made water. My vote will be in favour, but it is appropriate to refer to the exasperating slowness in the process of modernizing and expediting judicial proceedings, which is re-accredited just two years after the adoption of the Civil Prosecution Act, which has had a unique impact on the functioning of justice and on the digitization of procedures and procedures through what has been called zero paper. The fundamental question is that, at this point, it is not possible to conceal that the Digital Prosecutor's Plan, which was conceived to modernize and digitize completely the processes that take place in the prosecution, from the receipt of notifications to communications with judges. Failures and anomalies in the development of some of the applications have been detected and the period of exception in relation to communications to the prosecutor's office is very short. This period ends on January 1, 2018, i.e., in seven weeks only, but it is that the experiences of the digital tax pilot projects implemented in Valladolid and Badajoz have already revealed many gaps. The Fiscal Council itself, at its meeting on 25 October, unanimously agreed that the Ministry of Justice should be required to halt the implementation plan immediately. I should also like to point out that we in Asturias are also suffering from an unsustainable accumulated delay, which is mainly penalised by the passivity of the autonomous government of Javier Fernández. The prosecution does not even have a connection to LexNet, although the procedural management programs are the same as those of the ministry territory. Finally, being aware of the enormous complexity of managing procedures that, as the Member of the People's Group said, normally generate hundreds of millions of notifications, acts and electronic communications, we believe that digital justice is a serious problem that needs to be addressed. Nothing more and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u47	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Ciuro i Buldó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u48	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to dedicate my first words to the ten political prisoners who are now in prison in Madrid, carrying out preventive detention in a completely abusive and unfair manner. Therefore, I dedicate these words to you and tell you that we will not stop until we have you back home. [[Applauds]] The Democratic Party is not going to support this bill, nor is it going to oppose it. It is a further demonstration of the poor procedural technique in the necessary implementation of the modernization of justice, of its digitalization, and now it encounters the deficiencies in communication with the prosecution. It was obvious that a process of such magnitude took time, required effort, required dedication, and we are only recurrently and successively attending to huge plugs, the last one is the most recognized; in fact, we have asked the Minister of Justice if it is true what appeared in the press of leaks of documents, let's say sensitive, of judicial cases, with improper and completely abusive downloads carried out by professionals through the LexNet platform. We don't like the way this digitization is going. He's being uncaute. Here we have one more example of an extension, because it is not enough to meet the deadlines laid down in the current legislation. We will therefore remain outside this procedure, in the sense of supporting it, but we will not oppose it either. The LexNet platform and digitization in Spanish justice is not a good example. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u50	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to say that we adhere to the condolences that have already been expressed by the sudden and unexpected death of the State Attorney General. With regard to the subject before us, I would like to state that the Civil Prosecution Act provides that the procedural acts of communication, which are notifications, sites, citations, etc., both to the prosecutor's office and to the State Attorney's Office, to the lawyers of this House or of legislative assemblies of autonomous communities, to the legal services of Social Security, to the public administrations of the autonomous communities and local authorities and to the schools of prosecutors, shall be carried out on the following business day of the date of receipt which is the due diligence or protection of their receipt when the communication has been made by electronic, computer or similar means. It is from that next working day when the time limits set for the person receiving the communication to act in the proceedings, either by personating, appearing and acting in place, date and time, or to comply with a conduct imposed by a court or court, etc. For its part, since 1 January 2016, Law 42/15, amending the Civil Prosecution Act in various sections, in its transitional fourth, established that acts of communication to the prosecutor's office by telematic means would not be carried out the next working day of its reception, but that of ten calendar days; and this would be so until 1 January 2018. In other words, until January 2018, the prosecutor's office is given privileged treatment with respect to the State's Attorney, the lawyers of this House and the legislative assemblies of the Autonomous Communities, the legal services of the Social Security, the public administrations of the Autonomous Communities and local authorities and the schools of prosecutors, since for all the latter, since 1 January 2016, the acts of procedural communication by telematic means - as I have said - are to be carried out the next working day of their constancy. That is, ten calendar days against the next working day, and thus until 1 January 2018, against the date 1 January 2016 which governs the rest of the legal operators other than the prosecution. The reason for this treatment other than the prosecution will not be found in the explanatory statement of the law introducing this different treatment. We have to go to the report of the Fiscal Council, to the draft of Royal Decree 1065/15, on electronic communications in the territorial area of the Ministry of Justice and to the memory of the prosecutor's office for the year 2015 prepared in 2016. In the first, the report of the Fiscal Council on the draft of the said royal decree, it is said that the proposed changes, that is, that the effect of telematic communications is the next working day, affect the exercise of its functions and requires the prosecution to address important organizational reforms that ensure proper management of the procedural deadlines, given the necessary distribution of services between prosecutors and the workloads that - they say - are difficult to manage at certain procedural times and that, therefore, we say - need that ten-day mattress to be notified against only one day of the rest of the mortals. For its part, the memory of the prosecution office for 2015 is manifested in the same direction, when it speaks of the impact on the organization of the prosecution's work and on the proper management of the processing times and procedural deadlines involved in the immediate implementation, no longer so much of the telecommunications systems, but that the start of the calculation of the deadline is the day after the notification has been received. Finally, the prosecution has enjoyed for two years a different system to compute the time limits since certain procedural acts have been communicated to it by the courts and judicial secretaries, now lawyers. Law 42/15 gave him two years to adapt his system of work and organization; and now the bill proposed by the People's Parliamentary Group suggests that we adopt a new adaptation period of another three years. And we ask ourselves the following questions: does the prosecution need, in order to adapt its way of working to the telematics communications of procedural acts of which it is subject, a lack of five years, until 1 January 2021, regarding the other legal operators who had to do so as of January 2016? Because the problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that it is not that they do not receive the communication of a procedural act from a court or lawyer by telematics, or that they do so inappropriately; that is, without being guaranteed the authenticity of the communication, its full content, its issuance and receipt and dates of both, since, if so, the communication of the procedural act would not be valid or would begin to run the deadlines for the action corresponding to the prosecution. The point is that, having received the communication of the procedural act in a telematic way - when it receives it - the prosecution seems to claim to give itself by notified ten days later and not to the next as the other legal operators, and this, which was happening extraordinarily from January 2016 until January 2018, is intended to be extended to 2021. And why does the prosecution demand more time than others to start running the trial time? And why is the People's Parliamentary Group the spokesperson for the prosecution's needs instead of the government through the Ministry of Justice? And why not a project instead of a proposal? Does the Ministry of Justice have anything to say on this issue? Is it worth an explanation such as that contained in the explanatory statement of reasons for this proposal, which plays more to confusion, from our point of view, than to explanation? And, in case it was little, in direct processing and in single reading? Ladies and gentlemen - and I am finishing, Madam President - we do not want to cause unnecessary harm to the prosecutor's office and its public office. That is why, given the dates on which we find ourselves, we will vote in favour of its consideration, but in no way will we support a new period of lack to work in different terms - I am referring to the prosecution - those of the other legal operators for another three new years. We need an explanation and a debate on what is really happening, which in no way satisfies the initiative presented to us. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u51	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Prendes Prendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to begin this speech by conveying our condolences to the family, friends and to the entire prosecution department for the death of the State Attorney General, a person whom we have discussed in this House and which we have disagreed with, but of course always from respect, and today we want to recognize his legal size, his human size and also his size as a servant committed to the State. It's law that we do it. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, other parliamentary groups have already said this: what is intended with this proposal for a law is to maintain an exceptionality, that is, that the notifications made to the prosecutor's office begin to take effect not on the day following their notification, as happens to the rest of the parties in a procedure, but on the ten calendar days; an exception which was introduced by Law 42/2015 of 5 October 2015 on the reform of the Law 1/2000, and which was intended to remain unique and exclusively until 1 January 2018. Now, with this bill, it is intended to extend that period for three more years. Firstly, let me make a brief reference to the type of procedure we are offered. We are being offered a procedure in urgent procedure, directly and in one reading, and I say to you that we are going to vote in favour of this procedure because we believe that what is a real problem must be addressed, regardless of whether it must also be extended to what are the causes and why we have come to this situation, but the fact is that it is perfectly in line with the situations provided for in Article 150.1 of the Rules of Procedure for this type of procedure; indeed, something that does not happen, and in a palm, with other bills that are going to be dealt with in the same way but that if anything is lacking it is precisely a nature or a simplicity in the wording that advises such a procedure. It has nothing to do with this amendment to the Basque quota bills that we are going to deal with later. The first thing to say is that this amendment, which is urgently brought to us, shows that there is a failure in what is the whole procedure for digitising justice, the whole procedure for updating and implementing the new communication measures in the field of justice. We don't put it out there. We do not know whether it is a direct precedent, but the truth is that, as you know, there was a meeting of the Fiscal Council with the prosecutors at which precisely this digital prosecutor's office was set up, barely two weeks ago, and it was a unanimous voice of those prosecutors' offices to request that this deadline be suspended because they were unable to receive notifications in time and form and because they were unable to deal with these new models of communication and notification. We will therefore process this law directly, this urgent procedure, because there is a failure on the part of the Ministry of Justice in the implementation of those digital tools that update our old Justice Administration. That's the first thing to say. Therefore, once again, what we have to do is act urgently to cover what has not been done in the ordinary phase. But there is also another issue that seems important to us - which has already been said by some other intervener - and that is that an exceptional procedure for the prosecution alters a basic principle of any procedural law, which is the principle of equal arms or equality of the parties to the process, which implies that the parties have the same means to implement both their actions and their defence. In judicial proceedings, the prosecutor's office has the task of promoting the action of justice in defence of legality, citizens'rights and the public interest. Without prejudice to its defence of that general interest, the fact is that it also has the status of a party to the process, one more part of the process, and what we do not understand is that that principle of equal arms which must govern all procedural rules is intended to be suspended for another three years. This treatment differentiated by the incompetence of the Ministry of Justice itself in dealing with this process of digitization, in our view, can affect, with this time so long that it is intended to maintain, the right to effective judicial protection, which we believe implies that all parties to the process have identical procedural opportunities. Therefore, an exception that applies only to the prosecution has to be that, exception, and not norm. Therefore, I say to you that for our part, accepting the single reading procedure, accepting the consideration, in which we will vote in favour because what we do not want is to add to the difficulty already encountered by the Public Prosecutor's Office in its task a greater difficulty, what we will not accept is the three-year period, and I hope that by next Thursday, when we will have the full debate, we will be able to reach an agreement, but accepting that three-year period would mean as much as giving up that we will be able to modernise justice, that we will be able to establish the digital media necessary to equip it with agility. I do not know whether the People's Party has already renounced that modernization process, but we are not and, as we have not renounced, we are not going to accept a three-year period. I hope that we will be able to reach an agreement before Thursday. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u53	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Sixto Iglesias has the floor. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. Like almost all the speakers who have spoken before me, I would like to begin by conveying my condolences on behalf of my parliamentary group to the family, friends and collaborators of the recently deceased State Attorney General. [[Applauds]] Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing the patch of a patch, because if the first wording of the fourth transitional paragraph 1 of Law 442/2015 already gave a period of two years - in this regard Mr Legarda's intervention has been absolutely didactic in correctly, procedurally and legally placing the whole matter before us - if I say that that was a patch at the time, today we are facing another patch by claiming to extend it another three years. If this happens, as has already been suggested by other speakers who have preceded me in the use of the floor, it has not been because some imponderable has occurred that is outside the hands of the Government or this House, but directly because of the improvisation of the ministerial policy, because of the lack of means, because of the lack of will in the end, or because of the capacity - let us say so directly - of the Ministry of Justice to implement what was intended by a law adopted in 2015. And if in 2015 the legislator understood that it was necessary to give that two-year deadline, it is now difficult to understand that we have to put a patch back on that patch and extend again in three more years that exceptionality of the prosecutor's office in terms of notifications. Because here the real problem, ladies and gentlemen, is in the digital system applied by the ministry, LexNet, a system that has already had numerous failures, which led the minister himself to have to appear last August in this House because of the failures that had been detected, a slow system, a system that has turned out to be obscure as to the companies that have done it and the cost that it has had. Various parliamentary groups in this House have presented questions to the government asking what companies, to what extent and at what cost they have worked in all these systems and the ministry's response has been silence, silence directly. It's a system that doesn't meet the zero paper target. Senator Comorera Estarellas asked the Government in February of this year about the expenditure on the supply of paper and toner to the courts and tribunals throughout Spain. And, curiously, between 2013 and 2016, the amount rises in terms of the expenditure on the supply of paper and I do not tell your ladies and gentlemen about the toner, which goes from EUR 164 000 in 2013 to EUR 1 476 000 in 2016, with which we are spending more on paper and toner. This is going through the system itself, which some complain that it ends up becoming a 'big brother' judicial, a system that allows to create profiles by cases, by judges and lawyers. A system that is limited to working on certain platforms; Apple users complain that your system does not work properly. A system that allows the Ministry's technicians to have direct access to the computers of judges and prosecutors, generating the corresponding mistrust with regard to these accesses. A system that has led, when the vulnerabilities of the system have been reported by specialists, the ministry, rather than trying to reward or work with those hackers who have identified those vulnerabilities, has gone directly to pursue them. A slow and complicated access system; it has been tested and is proving that it does not work properly. A system of difficult compatibility with Fortuny, with Visor, with the Portafirmas, with other applications that are being used by different judicial operators. A system, ladies and gentlemen, that ends up working with PDFs without search systems and this is what leads then to having to end up spending much more on paper and ink. A system, of course, that is not the one that needs our justice. And this is all for a lack of budget, ladies and gentlemen? No, because it has been millions of euros that have been spent on LexNet and computerisation. Millions of euros have even been spent on buying computers. In 2016, ultra-light computers, Microsoft Surface, were purchased, 1300 units that in a system that needs DVD players, because a lot of the information is on DVD, did not have those DVD players with which they were not useful for much of the prosecutors provided with them. And this measure is brought here with the open rebellion of the fiscal race. The Fiscal Council recently demanded the halting of digitization, put it on the table and today the People's Party, which is not the government - I am not the first spokesman who says this but it is true that it is the People's Party that brings a proposal for a law, and not the Government of Spain, which would be responsible for it - that demands or demands or desires of the fiscal race. My group's approach is that, beyond patching a patch again and affecting the prosecution, this affects the majority of citizens who have to resort to judges and courts, who have to resort to the judiciary. And it is an injury because the time limits of the proceedings are being extended, ladies and gentlemen; this cannot be extended in time for another three years. That is why my group is going to table amendments and is going to demand that this deadline should not be substantially extended for three more years, but should be extended only one more year, and that instead of being ten calendar days, it should be five working days, ladies and gentlemen. At some point we will have to start forcing the ministry and the prosecution to put in place the means and procedures so that these deadlines can be put in place and we do not have to be granting vacatio legis systematically. In conclusion, I would like to remind you of what was made public not long ago in the Lezo case about the interventions that might have been made for the appointment of prosecutors or the influences that have been exerted on the appointment of certain prosecutors. The ministry has to work to make the means available to the prosecution to ensure its independence and in no case end up covering up maneuvers to appoint trusted prosecutors to key positions. On the one issue I wanted to address, the one reading, I want to make a simple claim. Is the single reading valid for this topic and does not apply for other topics also to a single article of a statute of autonomy that extends indefinitely over time? I am talking about the autonomous status of the Valencian Community. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular the Citizens' Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group, which are systematically extending the time limits for amendments to many laws in this House, end this torture and boost the process of legislation in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u55	Thank you very much, Mr Sixto Iglesias. Mr Campo Moreno has the floor on behalf of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I applauded the speeches in memory and memory of José Manuel Maza, but I want the Journal of Sessions to include an express recognition and my memory, as well as that of my parliamentary group. [[Applauds]] We are considering a bill by the People's Parliamentary Group to amend Law 42/2015 of 5 October, which amended Law 1/2000 of 7 January, the Civil Prosecution Act, and regulated a very specific matter, namely to guarantee and give effect to the communication acts of the prosecutor's office. I would like to focus one second on the explanatory statement of that law and the specific moment at which it is adopted. The law in question has a preamble that marks - I will be very brief - in three the objectives of that way of legislating at the end of the 10th Legislature. The preamble said that the aim was to generalize the use of telematics and computer tools in everything that involved communication. Secondly, that was done to equip us with a new administration of justice. This was the preamble to Law 42/2015. And, in short, I was coming to establish that we're going to do it and we're going to do it now. Therefore, a whole series of measures was planned to enter into force at the beginning of 2016. Curiously it is a law that came into force the day after its publication, when for a law of the procedural field it is absolutely unusual. With that amendment to Article 151(2), which establishes the mechanism of communication acts - and I will not tire them out because we have heard it twice - what was understood was the die a quo to understand when the communication is calculated and understood. But, obviously, it was known that it would bring problems, especially with the prosecutor's office. It is not a question, Mr Prendes, of breaking the equality of parties, this is something else; the problem is who has the responsibility to put instruments in order for one of the parties because, since there is no budgetary autonomy in its entirety in the Organic Statute of the Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Justice is responsible for providing the necessary mechanisms for the prosecution to carry out its function. But as I said, they were conscious and a fourth transitional provision is dictated, which is the one that takes until January 2018 the entry into force of this, extending to ten days, as we also heard this same afternoon. What's going on? That we are at the end of November and 1 January is there and the problems come. Therefore, it is necessary and so demands of us, not the government courageously - as we have heard here this afternoon and this parliamentary group also says - with a bill with the report of the Fiscal Council, but through a parliamentary group, with all the legitimacy but avoiding and obviating that existing discomfort in the Fiscal Council. Ladies and gentlemen, your Government and your parliamentary group, as far as the administration of justice is concerned, and in particular as far as technological modernisation is concerned, what happens to Pedro and the wolf, which nobody believes, is the reality. I'll explain to you why this is so. No one believes it because they play to not know what, but certainly not to equip a technological modernization to which action promotes the action of justice. He told them a moment ago that perhaps it is very important not to lose sight of when this law is passed and passed; it is passed at the end of the 10th Legislature, someone will one day write why there has been so much wet paper in the State Official Gazette. But I told them it's not a single case, we've had it with the Civil Registry Act, which was passed in 2011, and we've had to pass a new moratorium because absolutely nothing has been done in technological modernization. We have day and day not failure and screams about LexNet's application. Everything that involves technological modernization is being a real fiasco. A minister who comes to sail through proceelous waters on the basis of consensus, every time he undertakes a march under the preamble of the modernization of justice brings a new shipwreck and then this House has to come to save the wreck's remains. Why? It is not because the parliamentary group is too interested, but because it is concerned with justice and interests the citizen. And obviously to that three-year moratorium - which is already good, which is already good - we will have to turn it around because it is not acceptable for the implementation to take two years and the moratorium to be three; either it has been calculated very badly or you do not intend to invest either, but there will be time to reflect on that. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, I am finishing. Really, every time I dive into the interpretation of your laws, especially those of that X Legislature, I have to dive and review the texts of one of Freud's great followers, whom you surely know, Jacques Lacan, because it is very difficult to distinguish between what is real, what is imaginary and what is symbolic. Having said that, my group, in this situation of responsibility, is going to vote in favour of the adoption of Amendment 42/2015, and it is going to do so in the sense that I have expressed: because citizens and legal operators are not to blame for the permanent chaos in which they live every time a change is introduced that, under the preamble of seeking the new technology and that new justice, as the preamble says, ends up being an absolute failure. That is why we are going to support the single reading and the urgent procedure, because if we do not, we do not arrive and we do not want this House to stop acting for one second for the benefit of the citizens, who are the only objective we must have for the improvement of justice, but please legislate otherwise. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u57	Thank you very much, Mr Campo Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u58	We turn to item 2 of the agenda on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal that the Government adopt by decree-law, in case of budgetary extension, the increase of at least 200 million euros to comply with the budgetary agreements of the State Pact on Gender Violence. Mrs Álvarez Álvarez has the floor for the presentation of the initiative. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me ask you if you know what has happened since this House committed itself to the subcommittee's agreements for a pact against violence against women in July. The first is that the President of the Government, after declaring in the National Court for the Gürtel case, ran quickly to an act of image washing at the expense of this agreement. The second, that the acceptance of an amendment to the 2017 General State Budgets that amounted to an increase of 2 million euros destined for the fight against sexual aggression is not going to be fully substantiated because the government, either by incompetence or by political calculation, planned to make the distribution for after the communities had closed their budgets. The third is that they have also not allowed multi-year management, which would have enabled communities to implement projects despite administrative delays by the Government. The consequences will be that dozens of victims of sexual assault will be deprived of the resources for their care. The fourth is that they have launched an advertising campaign with a message that makes young women responsible for the aggressions they suffer and that they have been forced to withdraw because Spanish society no longer tolerates any kind of sexist bazophy. The fifth is that we are concerned that Mr Maroto has manifested himself in a public debate that will support the initiatives of the pact-based groups; the question is that the agreements we have what they stipulate are that the Government will implement these legal reforms in the next four months. The sixth is that we have learned this week that they want to use the measures of the pact to turn them into the future national strategy 2018-2022 and that is simply a barbarity, because the strategy has to do is to develop the agreements, not use the agreements to save themselves having to elaborate the strategy. You have also tried to set up - this is the seventh thing - the Follow-up Committee as a Joint Committee to ensure that you do not have a majority. When they have seen - and this is the eighth - that they would not succeed, they have tried to slow down the launch of this follow-up committee until the group's tiredness has led us to register its constitution in this House without the signature of the People's Group. They have not come out to reassure the Spanish groups and society that the budget extension will not affect the agreed resources. This is the situation. And they must have been very busy with all these issues because they have not done what they have to do. For example, they have not sat with the Autonomous Communities to determine what the criteria will be for other bodies besides the Administration of Justice to issue an enabling title of victim status, even without filing the complaint. I ask, why have they not negotiated with the Autonomous Communities in these two months - which had time to do so - what characteristics this new document should have so that, for example, the reduction in working hours or the temporary suspension of a job relationship - which is recognized as a right in law - is effective as a result of an accreditation issued by the Autonomous Communities? How will this new accreditation system affect the protection of foreign women in an irregular situation who are victims of gender-based violence? How will the Government indicate that this new enabling title will give recognition to the advances of the Food Payment Fund or the right to geographical mobility, which is recognized in the law? All this does is generate mistrust, and mistrust, ladies and gentlemen, can upset the pact, but it is you, the People's Parliamentary Group, who must dispel that mistrust. There is distrust because so far we have only seen scams, delays and certain scams, such as that carried out with the 2 million euros destined to combat sexual assaults and which some communities will not be able to carry out. This initiative that we bring you today is focused on making the pact agreements true, and we believe that there are two key elements for that to happen: the Government's diligence to accelerate the agreed legislative reforms and enable the resources to implement the improvements that the pact has introduced. On this second aspect, we hope that the whole House will agree with us that there should be no obstacle or circumstance preventing the pact from moving forward, and today that is because the Government is passing a decree-law to enable a credit to comply with the agreements. It is not exceptional, ladies and gentlemen, every time there has been an extension of the budget, decree-laws on urgent budgetary, tax and financial measures have been adopted. The point is that with forty-four murders of women, eight boys and girls and twenty-two minors orphaned by criminal machismo, we hope that no one will doubt that these 200 million should be in that catalogue of matters of extraordinary and urgent need as provided for in the Constitution in its article 86.1. We hope today for the vote in favour of all the members of the House, but we demand that the Government immediately support it, already, can now begin to draft that decree-law because it cannot freeze the funding that will be made effective and will ensure that the measures of the pact are carried out. I would like to conclude by making a consideration that has to do with the pact, with what the Administration has to do on these issues. Look, the fight against this barbarism is done from many fronts and one of them is the fight against myths, sexism and stereotypes. It angers quite - quite - that at the door of November 25 an institutional campaign of the Government of Spain against sexual assault was pure stereotyping and pure sexism. This rostrum also has to be used to ask, for example, the president of the Xunta de Galicia to give instructions for the immediate withdrawal of the institutional campaign that from a rascal and stunned paternalism considers that women are monuments to which we must protect. Please, a little respect for women; a little respect for women. [[Applauds]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is an offence that comes from an Administration has a plus of insult and has a plus of irresponsibility because in the end it is the ministry and the Xunta in this case who promote stereotypes that so much harm women and that should be combated instead of promoted with public money. I'm finishing up. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, today we ask you to enable an extraordinary credit because without those resources the pact dies, but it is important that you be aware that more strategic intelligence is also needed in the fight against violence. So let's see if you can make more use of it, please. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u59	Thank you very much, Mrs Álvarez Álvarez. Mrs Reyes Rivera spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u60	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Socialist Party is bringing us here a non-legislative proposal that is actually part of a futurable; you pose for the hypothetical case where the budgets that the government is urged to submit a bill to increase them, all in order that the State Pact against Gender Violence can be implemented. But we are moving in the world of ideas, we do not know very well today whether these new budgets are going to come to this House, whether that extension is going to be requested. And yes, it is clear that the People's Party is not meeting the deadlines set by the Constitution, but Minister Montoro on 18 October said right here that the budgets would be in the House before the end of the year or at the latest in January. It is not that we are going to rely blindly on the Minister's words, but you understand that putting forward an initiative that is based on a premise that can or does not materialize is not the usual thing. Do you know what we do know? That the 2018 budgets, which have been negotiated with Citizens, include the corresponding items for the launch of the State Pact against Gender Violence. My parliamentary group has demanded this, and that, ladies and gentlemen, does oblige the Government, not what you bring here today to this House. Do you know what I really think this is? This is the initiative of shame, that is what you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group should feel, because, let us be clear, tell all citizens and tell all those women who are suffering from the violence of macho violence: how many non-law proposals have been passed in this House? A lot, right? And how many have started after that? Very few because a non-law proposal does not oblige the Government and we all know it. The General Budgets of the State do. Have you sat down to negotiate with the government? Not at all? Has this possibility been discussed at least? Or perhaps you have done so with the Basque Nationalist Party so that it is they and not you who approve these budgets? Because what they have done is to present a written request that it be processed urgently and in a single reading, so that the trance passes quickly I suppose, a law that further increases inequality among all Spaniards: the coupon. [[Applauds]] Call me ill-conceived, but what I believe is that you, Socialist ladies and gentlemen, have agreed by the back door with the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party to approve the coupon so as not to have to get wet with the budgets. Well, do you know what it means not to get wet? It means that you will stay out of the increase in the budget for the fight against macho violence; it means that you block that money from being invested as soon as possible. Much to criticize Podemos for his lack of commitment, but in the end you do the same. They are irresponsible, ladies and gentlemen, as much as they try to cover it up with initiatives of shame such as this one that they bring here today. In Citizens we are more of facts than of words because - that everyone knows well - since we sat at the subcommission table we demanded that an economic commitment be included by the Government, and that was achieved. And you know what we did next? Condition the General Budgets of the State, negotiate them with the People's Party and, of course, ensure, as I said, that this amount committed to the fight against macho violence was included. Where were you, socialist ladies and gentlemen? Where are they now? Explain it to all those women. Are they really with them or do they prefer to ally themselves with others for different purposes? By the way, they have nothing to do with equality. They are still in time to condition and support those budgets. If they were responsible, they would. Our group has taken the opportunity to table an amendment to this initiative, something that should be from Perogrullo but which was not approved at the time by the majority of parties in this House. We want committed funds to be allocated exclusively and efficiently to the fight against macho violence, both those managed directly by public administrations and those run by private associations. Because there are many associations that are fighting effectively and actively against this violence that do not receive a single euro, while others receive it without having to transparently justify the work they are doing. What we are proposing is very simple: we want all, on equal terms, with a public, planned and transparent process, to have the opportunity to access this funding. In short, and clearly speaking, the subsidies are not to be fingered. We trust, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, that they will at least support our amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs. Reyes Rivera. Mrs Rodríguez Martínez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. It is truly sad to have to intervene again in this rostrum regretting those things that we said two months ago but it is as if we had a ball of time in the confederal group since we have been able to guess each of the things that were going to happen with this pact of state; by the way, for which we abstained and that today we have to remember since we have to discuss again whether it is necessary or not that this pact of state has budget. We will, of course, vote in favour of the non-legislative proposal put forward by the Socialist Group and we have recorded other initiatives in the same direction, but we cannot understand how almost two months after this state pact has been put into effect and after each of the criticisms we have had to hear from the People's Party we do not yet have a single measure under way. One wonders really why this type of initiative should be presented here. In any case, in the first place, we said that the feminist movement was not part of this pact and this is truly worrying because you are only arrogating the ability to have carried this pact forward when it actually exists because it is women on the streets who every day ask us to get started in this House to end once and for all with sexism. [[Applauds]] You, far from wanting to do this, have set in motion all the impediments to not setting up a follow-up committee on this pact and have voted against the creation of an observatory so that feminist women could participate. It's a real shame. Secondly, we told them that we would not support this pact if there were no budgetary and enforcement guarantees, such as those contained in the pact, which are in fact a real misery, because you will tell me why you serve 1000 euros per month per municipality in Spain to implement the more than 200 measures that this state pact has. We think it's calderilla and yet we'd be willing to accept it, but they're not even willing to give it to us. Therefore, two months later, two months later, there is not a single euro for sexist violence and there is not a single guarantee that this pact will be implemented. It's normal that you turn your face and don't want to look at me while I'm intervening because it really has to embarrass you that after two months you haven't done anything at all. [[Applauds]] We also told them that we disagreed and that you had not fully understood the problem of gender-based violence. It is not just because we are women, but because there is machismo and machismo encompasses from what happened with Sostres in Spanish Radiotelevision to what happened with Juana Rivas, from the pay gap to the trial of La Manada. This is machismo and you do not finish understanding it, the real objective against which the state pact would have to fight. You continue with your parliamentary inaction, doing absolutely nothing, and now we are faced with the following situation. I would like to make it very clear to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - it is a pity that the government is never here to talk about these issues - that I believe the sisters of this country and Spain believe them, the problem is that the government does not do so. [[Applauds]] All they do is blame us for breaking agreements and the only ones that are breaking them are you. They have broken a social and institutional agreement that we had with this pact by not putting a single measure into effect and they have broken a territorial agreement. You have indeed broken a territorial agreement when this pact focuses on the measures that must be taken in the local entities and do nothing more than, through Minister Montoro with his laws, suffocate the municipalities. There has to be another territorial agreement in Spain that allows us to deal with victims of macho violence, giving them powers and resources to the municipalities. You are doing the opposite, so this agreement also breaks it and, above all, breaks the most important agreement, which has to do with women. They are not able to offer useful policies for women, they are not able to govern for them. Minister Zoido said that the other day. He recognized that he could do nothing for women's lives. You as a party are not able to secure our lives. Step aside if you don't know how to do it, gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] The worst part of all this is that we women have fulfilled our part of the pact. Women have fulfilled our part of the pact not only because we pay taxes, we train, we take care of ourselves, we look for work and we fulfill our lives, with all that society demands of us; the worst of all is that we even make complaints, we are granted protection orders, and yet the system does not work. We have to solve it because we're still being killed and everything else is happening. That is why it is so important that we are able to get out of the framework in which we ourselves have entered. Machist violence cannot be an ideological issue. We have to find a solution and that is why I would like to appeal to all the women in the House to find us in this. There has to be an agreement between different people. It is clear that we do not agree on what are the best ways to solve the problem of macho violence; what is clear is that we recognize ourselves in it, in the winks, in the looks in the corridors, when some of the different parties say to us: It happens to me too, I also recognize myself in this, it has happened to me too, I also suffer from machismo, also within this House. What we would have to do for all the women who feel this is to put everything on our side so that this is not a country in which we have to be brave, but in which we feel safe and in which we feel free. This goes through a women's agreement that right now is broken by everyone and everything. Only the women in this House will be able to set it in motion so that it can then be launched in the rest of society. We are asked by the women who are outside and for them we have to make this effort. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United States of America]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u63	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Martínez. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on the position-setting shift.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. This initiative by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which Mrs Álvarez Alvarez has defended, seeks to provide guarantees that, throughout the 2018 financial year, there will be budgetary forecasts and, therefore, sufficient financial resources to comply with the broad agreements reached in the subcommission for a state pact on gender-based violence. It should be recalled that, among the various proposals for action adopted by the Equality Commission and endorsed by the Congressional Plenary a couple of months ago, a global economic commitment was agreed to develop the pact, which will lead to an increase of EUR 1 billion over the next five years and thus to promote a road map that needs budgetary planning to implement the pact and provide it with resources. With this non-legislative proposal it is intended that in the case of automatic extension of the existing General State Budgets, the Government will adopt a decree-law for its validation by this House which envisages an increase of at least 200 million euros and implement the commitments made to combat gender-based violence, including the financial resources for the implementation of these policies, as is the provision in 2018 of an increase of 20% for the Government Delegation for Gender-based Violence, a percentage that is in principle the largest annual budgetary effort of the period up to 2022. The global economic commitment must be highlighted to implement measures and recommendations to raise awareness and raise awareness among the whole of society about the harm caused by inequality and violent behaviour, which can only be achieved if they are accompanied by sufficient economic support, as set out in the pact. Hence my support for this initiative, although in Forum we hope that it will not have to take effect and that in 2018 Spain will have its corresponding law of General Budgets of the State, which is very important for all Spaniards in order to give continuity to economic growth and job creation, but specifically to continue and promote the conditions necessary to transform legal equality into reality in the fight against gender violence. If it was described as historical - I think rightly - the pact to tackle violence against women, it would be an unusual irresponsibility not to provide it with the money committed, even more if it is in view of the growing acts of abuse that have occurred throughout this year. The two hundred measures approved by the comprehensive plan do not allow delays or pretexts. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u65	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sorlí Fresquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Reyes, two numerals. On the one hand, if the General State Budgets take about two or two and a half months to process, we are already late for 2018. On the one hand, and on the other, do you know the difference between the budgeted and the executed? It doesn't have to be the same. They can put it in budgets, not implement it, and there is no departure here for the state pact against macho violence. That's for starters. Since we know that we do not have budgets for 2018 at the moment and that we women cannot stand a minute longer in this situation, we are going to make the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party not condition the departure to stop the macho violence to those General State Budgets and not play the money in one letter to eradicate the much-needed macho violence. I say we need the money. In the Valencià Country we have already put ourselves to it. We're fighting this social scourge. In these 2017 budgets we have put a lot of money into this and we have adopted a Valencian pact with measures such as - for example - I will name only 10; there are 293, much more than here - promoting family co-responsibility; guaranteeing the access of survivors to the Valencian income of inclusion; fighting the wage gap; promoting equal leisure; preventing harassment in public spaces; training our teachers; accrediting the victims through social services; making campaigns that blame the aggressors and not the victims; turning this conflict into what it really is, a political and social conflict; and above all - above all - so that this is not just words on a paper, shielding all these resources so that these measures are real. When the Citizens' ladies sat down at the negotiating table, the first red line they put in was not economic commitment, it was not talking about everything that meant buying and selling women. That's the first thing they did. From there, we started negotiating. So, since we're already late, let's not delay him any longer. The last murders are just from the Valencia Country. They were twenty-eight and two years old. It's a real drama. This is joined, as it has already been named, by the fact that a genuine public trial is being conducted on the victim of a multiple rape. Please, we already need all the measures of the state pact, we need the measures of the autonomous pact, we need a real and economic commitment. Let us go beyond the minutes of silence, let us go beyond the purple bonds, let us turn this off from the general budgets of 2018 and do not play a single card the money to eradicate the macho violence. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sorlí Fresquet. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u68	Thank you, Madam President. I will speak very briefly. He said in the plenary that we ratified the document we agreed in the so-called State Pact against Gender Violence that violence against women is the most brutal expression of the inequality between men and women. That is why we start from the philosophy that we must work equally to try to eradicate it. To more equality, less space for violence and its multiple manifestations. Obviously, that is a principle that marked us in order to be able to work on that document. It has been said here that the document says many things and that when it comes to developing it is when the different cracks begin to arise. In any case, the Socialist Group today brings a non-legislative proposal with a clear objective, at least in the text, and is that the economic commitment that appears in the document of the pact is fulfilled, although, listening to Mrs Alvarez, with all my appreciation, she says something more too. I mean, it doesn't just say what the text says, then here it says more things. The text says one thing, but then we use this to say more things. There may be no budgets for 2018 - it may be - but what cannot be is that there is no budget line for the fight against gender-based violence. That is clear, because every day I am not going to say that more women are at risk, but more women may be at risk of not being treated as they should be precisely because there has not been a budget allocation of the level that was established when signing that pact. I don't know if we've reached a state pact, too. We made a document so that then, perhaps, a state pact could be reached; a pact that we do not understand as a pact for the state to do so. In other words, we have reached an agreement in which there are a number of recommendations and issues that everyone will have to exercise on the basis of their competences. And if we agree on something it was on two main issues; one, that violence is a violation of human rights and, therefore, eradication and struggle must be the same as fighting any human rights violation, using the mechanisms and resources that are needed on any other issue that is a violation of human rights; and also that something that remained buried in privacy has had the qualitative leap to become a social problem, something that goes from private to social. For these issues, of course, a number of basic consensus-building based on prevention and action or response were established, and economic resources are needed for both. For the area of prevention in all its fields, such as education, awareness raising, coordination of different actors, etc., and for the area of response, which are the measures in the judicial, police, institutional, protection, social services, etc.; for all this, as I said, the budget is needed, the two need budget. Unfortunately, we cannot make gender-based violence a recurring element for medals, because no one wants to stay out of what is the scope of the fight against gender-based violence, but that cannot be an obstacle to some kind of reinforcement of making some kind of traps or events ad mairem gloriam of some ministry, some political party, etc. Money, yes, but it must be borne in mind that the organisation of the autonomous communities, which have competence in this matter, is not synonymous with the money being spent as I say it has to be spent. In the case of Euskadi it is clear that money is invested in the fight against gender-based violence, because the fight against gender-based violence is never an expense, it is an investment, and it is an investment in values, in education, in the system, in everything that concerns it because it is a form of prevention in any case. As I have to finish, I'm finally going to tell you three things. We think that the amendment by Podemos is correct. We do not like the amendments that Citizens have tabled, because they want to get into a kind of garden that complicates the issue, and I think they persist on issues that, unfortunately, in other debates today we have already seen, only concern them and are obsessions based on others. And, Mrs Reyes, since you have clearly mentioned a kind of existence of contubernium mixing budgets, the quota, Socialist Party, People's Party, PNV, all on the same rope of horses, look, the quota means that the Basques are going to pay out of our pocket what is to be paid in the fight against gender violence, and we are going to do it, in addition, with all the will and with all the dedication as we have done so far. Don't do that to me because you're rude, Mr. Igea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u69	Mr. Agirretxea, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u70	In any case, I want to say that we are going to support this proposal. Let us hope that it is more than a statement and, indeed, we invest in what needs to be invested, which is in the fight against gender-based violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u71	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea Uresti. Mrs Jordà i Roura has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that the Minister is not here, but I will be clear and very brief. It is of no use, ladies and gentlemen, to increase the budget for combating macho violence if the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality promotes campaigns like this. [[Shows a poster of the advertising campaign Alcohol-free minors]] You're welcome, absolutely useless. I'd like to make it clear and let's call things once and for all by their name. It's not consensual sex, it's rape. Let's be clear. [[Applauds]] They're rapes. In the Republican Left of Catalonia, and I want to think that the majority of women in this House, too, are clear. Alcohol, like so many things, can never, ever be an excuse. The only culprit for a rape is always, always and always the rapist. No more macho violence, no more stigmatizing and blaming the victims. Minister, even if you are not present, this is an exclusive message for you: your institutional campaign is macho violence. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]] Sorry, I forgot. [[Break the sign before leaving the rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Jordà. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u74	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group has been bored to repeat the expression: to rule on the popular government, so famous that it was even used by its leader, Mr Sánchez, in the debate on the investiture of the President of the Government, showing that the use of this procedure robs Congress of the possibility of discussing matters that should otherwise be adopted through parliamentary groups, and it is the Socialist Group itself who today calls for a decree-law to ensure the financing of those measures included in the report of the subcommittee launched almost a year ago to analyse and discuss the improvements in our system of response to gender violence. [[Applauds]] The points relating to the billions agreed as the budget of the future pact in five years in that report of Congress are concrete, detailed and very specific as to the fate of these budget increases, their criteria for distribution, their purpose, and establish even the mechanisms for assessing the impact they have on the fight against gender-based violence. That is to say, the report has provided for the necessary budget and its allocation. What then fails in this architecture? For the Socialist Group has realized that everything is coming down if the General Budgets of the State for 2018 are not approved. The PSOE considered that it could continue with the no it is no and that they were approved by others without them having to commit, but it does not seem to be so, at least for now, and that is why they resort to this system that they have termed anti-parliamentary, abusive, as a mockery that puts at risk the quality of our system, as a procedure without debate, costly in terms of democratic quality for Spanish society. Would it not therefore be much more democratic and useful for them to be prepared to participate in the negotiation of budgets which they have rejected without even knowing them, that is, to use the parliamentary procedure of a law, the most important, making appropriate use of the mechanisms of the legislative procedure? The People's Parliamentary Group, on the other hand, does not give up approving them, does not give up negotiating them, because we believe that the best way to combat gender-based violence is to provide the great agreements that we have achieved through these new, negotiated, improved budgets, approved with broad consensus. That great consensus, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, is indeed being stolen by you from women and Spanish society with your stubbornness and lack of generosity, that lack of generosity which affects not only women victims of gender-based violence, but also dependent people, the unemployed, who are at risk of exclusion. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Spanish society misses the great agreements, the state pacts, the firm commitments, reflecting the maturity, the sense of responsibility of the political leaders, their generosity, leaving aside partisan issues for the sake of the great consensus. The Spanish society was pleased when it received the news that the work of the subcommission in Congress and of the Senate's presentation with agreements had been completed, after several extensions in Congress, in jobs that were not without obstacles, in which the opinion of 66 expert persons was heard during 43 sessions. But that joy lasted little, since surprisingly only three days later the United Group We can, without keeping due consideration not only to the other parliamentary groups with which it had agreed, but mainly to the three Members who worked hard during the seven months that it took the subcommittee to reach the agreement, abstained in the vote on the report of the Equality Commission arguing that it is not well known what reasons, which of course we assume would not have been mentioned by these three Members when they reached the agreement in the subcommittee. I would tell Mr Iglesias and Mr Garzón not to be justified or to apologize to the rest of the parliamentary groups, not even to be justified before Spanish society, but out of solidarity I hope that they have at least apologized to those three Members whom they left in a very uncomfortable situation when they decided to abstain, throwing away all the tireless work done by them within the subcommittee. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, with a sense of state, Mrs Alvarez, because we do, because we do, because of our strong commitment to women and their children, we will vote that we do in an absolutely exceptional way to this non-law proposal so that these 214 measures become effective as soon as possible, so that we substantially reform our legislative framework on gender-based violence, so that women and their children are better served everywhere, so that they have a lawyer at the time of filing the complaint, so that they do not have to cross paths with their abuser, even - I would like to comment on it - so that parents living in Spain cannot claim that they do not know that female genital mutilation is a crime in our country. That is why, as the text of the agreement says, as you know as well as I do, we want Spanish society to know, that it is aware that our commitment to achieve that state pact is very firm. That is why, exceptionally, we will vote in favour of this royal decree-law, which the Socialist Group calls on us, for responsibility to women, for responsibility and for respect for this Parliament and for responsibility to all those who worked in the subcommittee. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs González Vázquez. Now, Mrs Álvarez Álvarez, for the sole purpose of telling us whether she accepts or rejects any of the amendments tabled, I have the floor. Mrs ÁLVAREZ ÁLVAREZ: We will accept the literality of the one tabled by Podemos, which is an additional amendment, and we will reject the amendment of Citizens, because it touches substantially the initiative we are proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u76	Thank you very much, Mrs Álvarez Álvarez. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the agreement to strengthen the measures of the High Educational Inspectorate. [[File number 162/000481]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u77	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress concerning the agreement to strengthen the measures of the High Educational Inspectorate, for which Mrs Moneo Díez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue before us today is extremely important. If it were not, the People's Parliamentary Group would have sought other avenues to reach agreement on one of the most important issues that, in our view, we must also address within the framework of the social and political pact for education, because our will for consensus is maximum and our commitment to the pact remains the same as we adopted when a year ago, together with the Socialist Party and Citizens, we recorded the text that opened the door to the subcommission in which we have been working for ten months. We are not by chance, and less by opportunism. We are a governing party, we cannot afford mistakes, although it is clear that we can make them, and we certainly make them. Our proposals must have the backing of the law and the support of the citizens, and this proposal does. We are here today because the principle of institutional loyalty that should govern the relationship between the State and the autonomous communities has been violated; because the basic regulations that the Constitution grants in the educational sphere to the State have been systematically violated; because the principle of equal opportunities has been broken; because there are those who have wanted to legislate outside the law and, worse, build an educational model in violation of the law. We are here because education must form citizens in freedom; because no public authority can use education for ideological and partisan purposes; because Spanish families cannot observe with amazement how an educational system that should have offered the highest quality, the greatest opportunities, the greatest scientific and humanist rigour, a modern, inclusive and innovative system has been the instrument used by some to make fiction outside the law. But we are also here because we trust the State and its institutions; because today more than ever we know that the State has instruments to guarantee the freedom and equality of all Spaniards. We know that we and all those citizens who have taken a step forward, who have not submitted themselves to the established power, those who have perfectly distinguished the principles and values that have made us a great country and put their personal and professional ethics before the politically correct. Ladies and gentlemen, the State is the guarantor of compliance with the rule, the guarantor of all freedoms, as well as educational freedoms. Therefore, we submit this initiative today to the consideration of this House and we do so within the framework given to us by the Spanish Constitution as the supreme norm of the State, the constitutional doctrine and the statutes of autonomy. We do not come to this House to invent new instruments but to propose to your ladies and gentlemen that we develop the existing ones. We are not going to disown the State from its powers but to strengthen the existing ones. We do not ignore the state of autonomy defined by the Spanish Constitution, but we are fully aware that some have far surpassed the autonomous model with the sole purpose of breaking this country and, unfortunately, have used education to do so. Denying it would be a mistake; not trying to make this issue part of the maximum political and social agreement would be another major one. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not intend to judge anyone, but we do say that being a government party, having been or aspiring to be a government party, means implementing state policies. And the first State policy is respect for the law; the second, the defence of the law; and the third, the guarantee of its compliance. And if we are to develop the potential that constitutional jurisprudence gives the State to guarantee a vertebrate and vertebrate educational system that guarantees freedom, freedom of choice and freedom to teach, equality of opportunity, that ensures common basic teachings throughout the territory, that guarantees the linguistic rights of all pupils within the framework of an inclusive bilingualism, that dispels the ideology of teaching, then, ladies and gentlemen, there is no reason for some of you to oppose this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we propose? Something very basic: the strengthening and extension of the powers granted by the constitutional framework to the High Educational Inspectorate. For what? To enable it to exercise its powers as a guarantor of compliance with educational laws in each and every Autonomous Community. In what way? Strengthening the law, of course. By allowing the high inspection to act ex officio or at the request of a party; by ensuring that the competences of the high inspection are extended to textbooks and other curricular materials; by giving it sanctioning capacity; by giving it powers that so far the educational institutions had, in order to preserve precisely those centres from being places free of indoctrination by those who violate the public rights and freedoms protected by our Constitution; by providing them with greater personal resources, so that the inspectors enjoy the consideration of public authority in the exercise of their powers; by facilitating a greater channel of communication between the prosecution and the high inspection, precisely to protect more diligently the weakest, the children, those who are in the educational centre and who have been subjected to hate crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is a true reflection of what families, entities represented on the school board and, above all, inspectors are asking for. Citizens call for us to respond quickly to their concerns, and we are doing so. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, you ended up appealing to your responsibility. We are neither with those who seek to protect the State through independent bodies nor with those who want to deprive it of the exercise of its powers. We do not balance our principles according to each political moment. I must remind you that we remain alone in this House defending the need for a national-level evaluation that would allow a diagnosis of the system as a whole but, above all, that would guarantee everyone the same equality of opportunity. We, ladies and gentlemen, are where we have always been, alongside the Constitution, educational freedoms and the defence of the rights of all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u79	Thank you very much, Mrs Moneo Diez. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is the second item on this afternoon's plenary agenda that revolves around the High Educational Inspection. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group defended the consideration of a proposal for a law for the creation of what would be called the agency of the high education special, an independent agency, and Forum disagreed with that proposal because we believe that education can never be independent of its management and supervision. As already anticipated in my previous speech, I will vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal which promotes the strengthening of the High Educational Inspectorate and in five very broad points urges the Government to carry out various measures ranging from ensuring compliance with constitutional values to prompt and efficient action against any form of harassment, discrimination and incitement to hatred in minors. It is true that the explanatory statement is a full recognition of the inadequacy and, therefore, of the failure to comply with certain tasks entrusted to the High Educational Inspectorate. Both Lomce and LOE did not devote much space to referring to the High Educational Inspectorate, although they point out what their functions are and if they were fulfilled - something that has been claimed for years in both Congress and the Senate specifically in their respective Education Commissions - there would be no need for an independent agency that, after all, would not be as Citizens propose... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u82	... and it would be sufficient - it has to be - to apply the fundamentals contained in the Spanish Constitution, in the different laws, in the royal decrees and in the regulations that have been developed so that all the autonomous communities have their corresponding high inspection. We see absolute sense in this proposal for reinforcement that comes from the hands of the People's Group, especially when that is what the whole of civil society is calling for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u83	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. On behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Salvador Armendáriz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, is there anyone today who educates Spain in hatred? Yeah. Are there educational models topped by radical elements? We know. Are there educators who do not respect a minimal ideological neutrality in teaching? Also. Do some people use differences, for example languages, to raise walls that benefit only those who speak them? Yeah. Are there those who educate by inventing confrontations and grievances between territories creating artificial and false victims? Yeah. Are there those who educate by inventing or are there still those who educate by justifying terrorist violence? I'm afraid so, too. Is there anyone who twists history and invents non-existent political realities? Yes, ladies and gentlemen. We, the Navarro People's Union, without going any further, had to go to the High Education Inspectorate a few years ago to require the PNV to replace the term Euskal Herria with that of Euskadi in more than sixty references in its Basque educational curriculum, and, indeed, it was eliminated. Are these situations widespread? No, but they do exist, and they are all corrosive; therefore, the High Inspectorate of Education must act and must act more and better. You, Mrs Moneo, ask to strengthen the role of the High Inspection and we, what do we ask? We have said this in the previous speech: greater consensus, greater commitment by those responsible, scrupulous respect for competition and, at the same time, eliminating spaces of impunity for those who seek to make education a weapon of indoctrination, confrontation, lies and separation. I just hope that the ideas contained in the two initiatives we discussed this afternoon will only converge in one way and in some way, and by listening to experts, technicians, lawyers, inspectors, etc., we can finally come to a conclusion in that process that is effective for the purpose we all want, which is to eliminate these corrosive deviations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. For the Joint Group, Mr Baldoví Roda also has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. When a non-PP government works well and manages better than the PP, the PP tries to attack it, destroy it, and has no scruple, with the complicity, that is, of Aznar's offspring, the lords and ladies of Citizens. If it is a municipal government like, for example, Madrid, they intervene, and if it is a government like the Valencian, which has shown that it does not steal, that it is not corrupt and that it governs much better than the People's Party, they resort to discreditation and false complaints, even at the expense of education. It's the new mantra, indoctrination. They insist on casting insults, repeating lies or simply half-truths if they discredit, defame and insult teachers, management teams, inspectors, school councils, in short, a whole educational system of an autonomous community. They don't care, they don't have scruples, so they can regain power. The spokesman for the PP in the Valencian Courts did so on 26 October, reading a decontextualized fragment to match his lie of the mantra of indoctrination in Valencian schools and institutes. I'm finishing up. A group of Valencian teachers from an institute in La Marina Alta asks the PP, asks that spokesman not to cheat, to read the text until the end, that the conclusion of the text affects the search for solutions based on dialogue, integration, tolerance and not on the radicalization of ideas, as the intolerant spokesman of the People's Party tries to do. I'm done. No, this isn't about education, this is about electoralism, this is about inquisition, this is about voting. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví Roda. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Looks like we have a monographic afternoon today. I had some things pointed out, but after hearing what I heard, it's that we get over here all the time. We're going to some kind of contest, two more hard-boiled spiral, and it gives me the feeling that I don't know where we're gonna end up, because as this goes on... Mrs Moneo, I have heard you say such things that I really wondered: am I listening to a representative of the People's Party or is it from another party? When you said that about the resistance against the established power, what are you talking about, Mrs Moneo? You said that the State that applies 155 is the guarantor of the freedoms that you are promoting. I don't know what concept of state you have, but, truly, the concept of freedom I have is nothing like yours. In any case, the aim of this non-law proposal is a repeated objective; it is a repetition and, after all, I am not going to say things very different from what I said before the citizens' bill, because it is, after all, the same in different ways, which is that you propose a process of re-centralisation and standardization of education and the educational system in general. It has been invented that of high inspection in order to widen the power of the State more and more by diminishing the capacity of the autonomous communities or, at least, that of some. The Autonomous Communities have assumed responsibility for education and, for example, with regard to Euskadi, an educational system has been built based precisely on the development of these competences. After listening to you, I don't know what you want this high inspection to be, but more than in an educational system I have thought of a military barracks when listening to the proposals you made. Reading the proposal on the capacity for intervention, authority and coercion, I said: but this is, it is a military dictatorship or what it is proposing. Is that education system the one that you propose that we agree on a state pact? I will tell you something in advance: if you are going to bring this to the state pact - I know it will matter little -, know that you can forget about the participation of the Basque Nationalist Party. Do you really think it possible for an education pact to contemplate or accommodate the barbarities that you have raised in this non-law proposal? It is impossible that it is a pact of state; they will agree with those who are here in contubernium - pardon for the expression - or in a sort of collegialism to see who gives more in this matter, but we will not be in it. We could question whether what you want is a true function of the high expedition, because in the background, as Mr Rivera said before and I repeat it to you too, do you know that you are saying that the current inspectors are not worth anything? Do you know that they are saying that the inspectors of the autonomous communities who have assigned this function are not doing their job well? What's more, who guarantees me that the state will do better? Why are they going to do it? Are the current ones bad professionals? Moreover, what will the educational community say about all this? For this is indeed an interference, an interference in a work entrusted to them. I believe that you are once again taking advantage of what is happening in Catalonia to put forward that educational model that you would like. If we criticized Lomce, this, instead of relaxing tension, what it does is increase it, because the fact that we come to an agreement on an educational model, it throws it on the ground. Finally, I would like to raise a question with Mr Salvador. Every time you intervene and use terms like those you have used, your cultural negationism leads you from ignorance to ridicule, because Euskal Herria exists, and they have recognized it even the most recalcitrant requests that started the political path of the party to which you belong, already in the 1960s. But it is such a political fear that they have, that they deny even the cultural. Having said all this, we will obviously vote against it because we cannot participate in such barbarity, which has very little education.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u89	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Olòriz Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u90	Deputies, deputies, president, good late and freed by the god. [[Applauds]] They say that the second parts were never good, especially if the first parts have been so bad. We will now discuss a pocket version of Citizens' GNP. The PP presented this to us, a pocket version, they had to do it - there is an electoral campaign in Catalonia - not that it would be wrong with the extreme right-wing clientele that are disputed; a version of circumstances, written on their own and without any conviction in the exhibition, fortunately. It is a material for the limbo of the PNL, those that are lost in the distance and that at most will serve as an alibi as a wink for the electoral campaign of candidate Albiol, who already know that it can go from 8 to 5%, from misery to absolute poverty. I will not argue with what I have heard about history, although I would like to talk about history, but not history at the Forocoches level; forocoches level, no. Here we have a magnificent library, you just have to take a bibliography of ten or twenty texts and you will see that it has nothing to do with what has been heard here about the history of the Crown of Aragon or Spain. Fortunately, in the Spanish state and abroad we have good historians. The Catalan school has been, is and will be an example of freedom, coexistence, democracy and plurilingualism - it is the fourth time that I say this in this Chamber - because the professionalism of the more than 100,000 teachers of the public and concerted school cannot be attacked. I get a picture of where I don't know, three or four of the opposite have happened to me now; I won't fall into this nonsense, no, no. Hundreds of thousands of students, tens of thousands of schools, over 100,000 teachers is what we have in Catalonia fortunately, we cannot make the exception element of laws, on the contrary, we must strengthen the school. The truth is that none of the eighty-three respondents we have heard in the subcommission has placed high inspection as a priority. In the discussion of the index I doubt that the issue of high inspection is a fundamental issue, it is an instrumental issue of electoral campaign and I hope that on the 22nd this will disappear because otherwise, there will hardly be a pact. I was already skeptical, but I will be more skeptical, because Lomce continues to work, Lomce continues to consolidate, and it seems to me that the necessary change in the school in Catalonia and Spain will go much further. This GNP is unnecessary, if you really want to talk about this issue there is a place where you have voice and vote, because you can only understand the inspection, high or low, within the framework of the educational model, which you serve. We can understand each other in this. Everything else is demagogy and propaganda. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u91	Thank you very much, Mr Olòriz Serra. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Before I make the speech, I would like to reply to Mr Agirretxea who said that it is a monographic session. Fortunately. I hope that with this session some of the education spokesmen who do not know and who have not understood what the High Educational Inspectorate is can learn and study for when we have to discuss the law. [[Applauds]] Having said that, the PP brings us here the GNP of repentance because it is a practically based GNP from which we brought two weeks ago, with the exception of two points in which they abstained, and they are obviously outraged with themselves by the grave error. I would be, too, and therefore this is one of the reasons why we are going to support them in their GNP. It is a GNP in which they make a purpose for amendment and it is good for us because it is never too late if it is good. The feeling is that of the children who have a toy in their room, they don't give him a damn case until they come at a certain time the cousins, discover the toy and then realize that they had that toy unused. We are going to support this GNP, although I am going to say one thing, and we find it very strange that a government party should bring a GNP in which it urges itself to carry out its functions. Let us hope that they will be implemented on the basis of this GNP, but in any case the serious debate can be established with the debate on the proposed legislation that we have brought to this House. At that time we will be able to discuss or work on the amendments, the nuances and the improvements that are appropriate and we are looking forward to all those contributions that you have said you are going to make bringing them to us in the procedure. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u93	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martín Llaguno. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u94	Thank you, President. As if it were the day of the marmot, the People's Group presents us with another GNP on the High Educational Inspectorate very similar to the proposal of Citizens we have just discussed. In this respect, we have to say that it is an equally irresponsible proposal that continues to cast doubt on the work of education inspectors and teachers and that if the People's Group brings it here today, it is not so much because it is concerned about indoctrination in the classroom, but to prevent its orange partner from continuing to pass it through the right. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you two compete to see who throws more wood into the fire and to see who takes 155 further. [[Applauds]] Indeed, it is a blushing cause of the electoral and petty use they are making of the Catalan crisis, but it is almost more embarrassing that they use it to attack our public school. Because it's very clear what you're looking for with these kinds of propositions. First, it begins by over-dimensioning isolated cases, then there is widespread suspicion of teachers and inspectors, and finally, draconian measures are implemented that undermine autonomous competences and school coexistence. In short, you are inventing a problem that does not exist to cover your responsibilities. They claim that we believe that the territorial crisis comes from the school and that the fault lies with teachers and teachers, but this crisis has not originated in any school, but comes... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u96	He said that this crisis, the territorial crisis that our country is experiencing, has not originated in any school, but comes from its incompetence, the incompetence that they demonstrated by attacking the 2007 Statute, and the incompetence that they demonstrate today by attacking the public school and its teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is fortunate to have a trained and capable teaching staff, teachers who often work beyond what they charge and who also have a reverential respect for their pupils. And for cases counted where this is not the case, there is a body of inspectors and regulated processes to guarantee the rights of the entire student. It seems to us very good that the education inspectors investigate all the complaints that may be made and even anonymous complaints that are not well known where they come from, but this GNP does not seek to strengthen and guarantee the independence of the ordinary body of inspectors, but to usurp its functions, giving it more competence to the High Inspectorate of the State, an entity which is formed by positions of free designation and not by ex officio inspectors and which does not offer guarantees of independence, publicity and impartiality. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you are making a mistake in principle. This proposition rests on the assumption that the school should be something like an aseptic and neutral space, when it comes to making the school a plural space. I already know that this approach has never excited them too much, but it is that the public school is different by definition and there will be right-wing or left-wing teachers, from Barça or Madrid, who will read one newspaper or another, but the important thing is that the sum of all that diversity makes the student come out with a very plural vision of the world around him and that, consequently, he can choose his way. But it is that you also defend one thing and the opposite, because at the same time you cry out against the indoctrination of the Valencian or Catalan school, you have no remedy, for example, to make the Catholic religion evaluable or to finance schools that segregate children or to agree with educational institutions with an ultra-conservative and very undemocratic idea. [[Applauds]] Perhaps there is a greater lack of supervision by the educational inspectorate. His speech against educational indoctrination, in short, is only a propaganda mechanism to intervene a public school that has resisted Lomce and its cuts because, let's be clear, the People's Party is not very concerned about indoctrination because, if it is concerned, it might have to start with Spanish Television. [[Applauds]] We are therefore going to vote negatively on this proposal for respect for the work of teachers and inspectors and because we also understand that there is no need to extend 155 also to the educational sphere. Our Confederal Group is firmly convinced that the social, linguistic and cultural diversity of our classrooms is not something to be pursued, but rather a treasure to be defended. In conclusion, I would recommend that the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group stop competing with Citizens in this nonsense and allow inspectors and teachers to work. If you want there to be something like an educational pact, you should be talking about increasing funding and not increasing the superpowers of the High Educational Inspectorate. Or, instead of pointing out and fearing teachers, they should be putting in place measures to reduce interinity and improve their working conditions. The problem is that with propositions as incendiary as these they are moving the educational pact a little further. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u97	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez Serna. Mr Cruz Rodríguez has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my speech by welcoming the wisdom of the popular chorus, which for this occasion has the most accurate description. I mean the saying she says: We were few and gave birth to grandmother. It won't cost them to guess where I'm going. A few weeks ago Citizens filed a motion on the high inspection, followed by Esquerra's motion on the Catalan school model and linguistic immersion. And in case that had been little, Citizens today add up to double. It was very late for you to appear, gentlemen of the People's Group. Could they have avoided it? True, they could have avoided falling into the same temptation, but it is known that it happens to them as the scorpion of the fable of Aesop: It is their character and if they can nail the sting they nail it. Although then you yourselves can get hurt by your release. If it were not because it would have seemed like a frivolity, in addition to a lack of respect for your lordships, I would have had little difficulty in using whole fragments of my intervention the other day in the motion of Esquerra and repeating them now here, changing where I said Esquerra for the People's Party. To this extent they are symmetrical, not to say twins, their interventions. You also put the children ahead of you today, using them as a strongly emotional alibi for your argumentation. Too bad we all know at this point that that is discursive vantageism, because, of course, who is not going to be sensitive to the description of reprehensible behaviors without the slightest doubt or nuance that have taken place lately in a few Catalan schools and institutes and that you take as the basis for your proposal? But that is not the issue that is at stake at the moment, which they are actually interested in. I could blame this initiative a lot, but I will limit myself to two. The first, the moment chosen to present it, a moment of such extreme opportunism that it ends up ruining all the credibility that it could have had at first. [[Applauds]] This afternoon you walk in parallel with Citizens and parallelism has nothing of chance; on the contrary, it is of every logical point. They both share the purpose of obtaining a specific revenue from this parliamentary session in view of the Catalan elections next month. Why do I qualify that revenue as specific? Because what you are looking for today, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, is to take advantage of the particular electoral competition brought about by the formation of Mr Rivera, a competition in which what is disputed is which of the two political forces rises with the trophy of appearing before the citizenry as the hardest and most intransigent in the face of Catalan independence, which, applied to education, is expressed in the obsession that both you and Citizens have to be the champion in subtracting autonomous competences and re-centralizing the education system. If that's what you're trying to do, let me look at you, using the chorus again, that you're making a bread like pies. I'm not going to give them advice, among other things, because if I gave them to them they wouldn't give me the least attention, but they should know that whoever's giving them to them is giving them very bad. Or has no one warned you that if this GNP were to go ahead with what is left of the process, it would not be a matter of joy? Hasn't anyone noticed that the public and subsidized media in Catalonia were going to open their editions tomorrow with the headline 'The 155 enters the Catalan school'. Don't make me think that's what you, like the scorpion of the fable, ask for the body. In addition, there is a second thing worth commenting on here that is even more serious than its opportunism. I mean your disloyalty with the educational pact. How can you defend within the subcommittee that in order to reach agreements two thirds of support are required and now claim here that a resolution which, at best, could be adopted in this House with a simple majority, will be enforced in the subcommittee? [[Applauds]] They will end up making us doubt their sincerity when they proclaim their desire for this great educational covenant. In short - and I conclude, Madam President - please clarify yourselves, gentlemen of the PP, and clarify yourselves among you, gentlemen of the PP and gentlemen of Citizens, but please do not bring to this Chamber your conjugal quarrels and, above all, do not throw at the head the dishes of the educational pact, because that dish does not belong to you; it belongs to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u99	Thank you very much, Mr Cruz Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u100	Next, in the third block of the agenda, we discussed the motion for urgent questioning by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo, on the actions taken by the Government to study alternatives aimed at the recovery of the Las Palmas de Gran Canaria naval base for citizen use. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u101	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all and everyone. This motion of inquiry that we defended last week is another opportunity that New Canarias has to raise the question of the naval base located in the center of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria. It is an issue that we have had to reiterate persistently - and this is one more case - because, despite the many positive statements of all kinds and tenors in all kinds of institutions, the truth is that this matter continues to sleep the dream of the righteous. It is true that the Minister of Defence last week finally acknowledged the need to set up a working group, as we had repeatedly requested before; a working group to discuss a possible solution to this issue. However, we have to say that the minister's little enthusiasm was evident and it is also evident that some statements have been made that lead us to maintain the concern that we have been maintaining - I do not, but many of the people who still live in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria - for seventy-seven years. Such statements have been made: and why if that naval base ceases to be military, it will be for the citizens, when if it were the Harbour Authority it would not be? I assure you that if these lands were of the Harbour Authority - which does not necessarily have to be so - there would be no inconvenience for that essential space for the city of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria to be recovered by the citizenry. You may ask what justifies this motion if the minister is committed to setting up a working group. One fundamental reason: the setting up of a working group to deal with this issue is a necessary condition for starting to address this issue, but it is not enough to address seriously and rigorously this repeated demand of Gran Canaria society over many years. Seventy-seven years have passed since the occupation of these lands by the Ministry of Navy in 1940 for military purposes; by the way, military purposes ended in 1945, which was when World War II ended. It is time for it to be presented in this House with sufficient rigour and we do not just accept statements, on many empty occasions. We again call for the House's support. We know that we have had the unanimous support of the groups present in the Defence Commissions, not only in Congress, but also in the Senate. Now we ask you again to support this motion that we are putting forward, because it is the first time in history that we could get not only a working group with a certain composition, which I will now comment on, but with defined objectives; it is not necessarily the solution to the problem, but it would no longer be 'good, yes, to see if these people shut up'. With regard to the working group, we have an amendment from the People's Party which I have already announced that we will accept. Regarding the composition of this working group, we suggested that it be the Ministry of Defence, the Government of the Canary Islands, the Cabildo de Gran Canaria, the City of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria and the Harbour Authority. We are also asked to have the Ministry of Development. We have no problem with this subject. It seems rational to us, and it is likely to benefit the functioning of the Commission. And what is most relevant is that, in addition, it has set out a set of objectives, which I quickly read to them: First, to study possible alternatives to give a new location to the naval base of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria that meets the operational, logistical and strategic requirements necessary for the Armed Forces and for the Defence. Second, estimate the cost of re-conditioning the new site and the construction of the necessary facilities, as well as the period of implementation of these actions. Third, to define the possible routes for the transfer of the current space of the naval base and the financing and/or compensation formulas, in accordance with the current legality, that could make effective the recovery of the naval base for the city of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria. If we look at this in depth, I could tell you that it doesn't seem like much compromise, but it's a historic step in relation to what we've had before. This isn't a whim. I don't think you have to spend much effort explaining to your ladies and gentlemen that it is unreasonable for a military facility to be in one of the strategic centers of a city of four hundred thousand inhabitants, such as Las Palmas de Gran Canaria. It is not reasonable that it is a kind of black mole that prevents the development of the coastal front, absolutely decisive for the economic development of the city, for the generation of social and all kinds of equipment that the city urgently needs to meet the challenges it faces in economic, social and equipment matters. I hope I've managed to move them that we're not in front of a chopper. This is not a prejudice against the military because yes, we understand that the defense of the Canary Islands has to be guaranteed, what we do say is that you cannot occupy a space because there was a war, that the war ended in 1945 and that, without anything in return for the city, that space has remained excluded from the citizen's use without any known contribution to the general interest of the citizens of Gran Canaria and Las Palmas de Gran Canaria. That is not reasonable, as it has not been in the many cities that have had an agreement to relocate military installations that occupied city spaces, as in this case, emblematic. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Quevedo Iturbe. In defence of the amendment made by the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Hernández Bento.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u103	Thank you, President. Mr Quevedo, you are right when you say that this matter has come and gone, that it has been brought from 1974 to political today, and by different political groups and at different times. I give you all the reason for this, and some other things. But allow me to reflect on what the Navy's presence in our Archipelago has meant before I go into this matter. I'll explain so you can understand why I'm doing this. You say that we must recover the naval base for the citizens, and I believe that, frankly, this is not the case, because the use of the naval base is already a use that is at the service of the citizens. There can be no better or greater service than that of defence and protection. Look, without exaggerating, if the Canary Islands, the Spanish and the Europeans can be sure, among other reasons, it is because of the presence of that naval base in our Archipelago. In addition, this presence is a permanent service every day of the year and every hour of the day. Therefore, I did not want there to be any shadow of doubt in this respect about respect, the affection - you have also said - that we feel the canaries for the Navy. I think we'll all agree on this. In addition, we are talking about Canarian citizens, but it is that the Navy is also made up of men and women who are perfectly integrated into Canarian society, who want our city and our island. I don't think we can deny this bond either. That is why I wanted to introduce this nuance, because I do believe that the current use of space is the guarantee of a good cherished and appreciated by people, which is that of their security which, in the end, translates into their tranquility. And dedicated to the protection of this good is the Navy at the naval base. Therefore, it seems to me that it is important that this be made clear, that the Navy is respected and loved in Gran Canaria. This does not take away that we can discuss - you are right - about possible location changes. The base is located in the heart, in the center of our city. From a street of the most commercial of the city we look towards the sea and, without any difficulty, we see the entrance to the base, next to the nautical club. Therefore, it is a privileged place; it is part of our maritime front. This situation becomes - and you said so too - the Second World War. But it is no coincidence; it is located there precisely because of this geostrategic situation that our Archipelago has for national and European defence. That is why I believe that there is one thing that needs to be made clear in which I believe we will all agree, and that is that what we are talking about is changing the location; the stay in Gran Canaria of the naval base is indisputable. You are also right when you say that there is an agreement of the Defence Commission of 2016 for the creation of that working group and that it had not been set up; but it is also true that the Minister of Defence, María Dolores de Cospedal, committed herself here and, moreover, explained why it had not been set up; you said that from the Ministry of Defence had worked on different alternatives, but that none of them met the technical requirements that guaranteed the transfer under the appropriate conditions. And that's the only reason! Don't look for more or less enthusiasm! This has been the position of the Ministry of Defence and not only with a Government of the People's Party; it has been with Governments of other political signs. No alternative has been found for the transfer that complies with sufficient technical guarantees. In fact, the minister undertook, with a clear will to comply with the agreements, to make it before the end of the month; and before the end of the month it is next week! Next week! We agree that this group should study more things; not only the possible alternatives of location; the costs of the transfer, the periods of execution and also the legal formula, because it is true that it was the Harbour Works Board, in the year 1940, that yielded the land, almost all, the four fifths. Therefore, in the face of a possible transfer of the arsenal - as we call the naval base - to any other place, it will be the Harbour Authority that receives these lands. It's not going to be the city hall or the lobby. I am very grateful that you have accepted our amendment for the Ministry of Development to be in that working group. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Look, I would like as a canary, as a canary, as a Spanish, to transfer to all the members of the Navy the pride that has been for the canaries - and still is - that they are among us; but, above all, I would like to convey to them the gratitude, because they make our defense their commitment to life. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u104	Thank you very much, Mrs Hernández Bento. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the position-setting shift, first of all, by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u105	Thank you very much, President. I am speaking to express our support for the motion tabled by Nueva Canarias. We support the motion because we are able to put ourselves in the shoes of the New Canarias claim on behalf of the citizens of the city of Las Palmas. And we are able to put ourselves in that situation because we also have another similar to an operational military facility in the center of a city and we know what collapses that kind of facility the centers of the cities, without making any other considerations regarding the convenience or not that from a military point of view they are located in the center of the populations. For that reason, Your Honor, we will support the initiative, the motion in this case, of New Canarias. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda Uriarte. Mr Ramírez Freire has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Quevedo, my group's affirmative vote on your proposal, as we did in the Committee on Defence, in which Mr Cano brilliantly defended our position, is already advanced. I also commend you for the repetition and persistence. We are a group that understands that when someone presents the same problem repeatedly it is because it is something that worries him and therefore occupies him. Mr Mena will not say the same to you, because we know that when something concerns us and occupies us and we bring it systematically it may seem wrong and will accuse us of electoralism. [[Applauds]] Therefore, I commend you for your repetition and persistence. It's a legitimate, reasonable, logical aspiration. It is true that the naval base of Las Palmas is in the center of the city and therefore we understand that alternatives have to be sought to its location, to its location. We are also logically concerned about the Army's work. You know very well - and you have said so - that the security of the Canary Islands, of all Spain, must be guaranteed and we praise the role the Navy plays in that performance, especially because it is also a social function. I certainly believe - and you will agree with me on this - that the social role of the Navy with humanitarian aid, with protection, with security, we must praise it, and we from our group will do so. He's got two hindrances. There have always been two impediments to the change of location of the naval base: one, by the search for alternatives. It is true that alternatives have been sought in Gando, in La Isleta, in Red Mountain - in Fuerteventura - even in Salinetas. Alternatives that could not be developed for technical, logistical, quiet and deep reasons have been sought. The second historical problem has been the cost: who, how much and how to pay. The first estimates, which date from about twenty years ago - it is when they began to present these kinds of motions - spoke of 180 million; today the most optimistic people speak of 400, although some experts number them at 1000 million. That inter-administration table, where the city council, the lobby, the Government of the Canary Islands and of course the Ministry of Defence - and we are glad that there is also Fomento - is at least the principle for finding a solution. We understand that it has to be all administrations that ask what are the possible alternatives of location, location, and once that possible alternative has been located, we have to look for the funds to be able to develop it. In short, Mr Quevedo, we will support this proposal because it seems logical to us. In addition, it has included the Ministry of Development, something that seemed fundamental to us, taking into account the case of the reversal of an expropriation that took place in the 1940s, which, as you know, 80% belonged to the Harbour Authority and therefore to Ports of the State, and that is why Fomento would have to be in that room. Make it clear that this support is not unconditional. If once and for all we succeed in moving the naval base among all, we will clearly monitor the results, what is the destination of these lands, because we also understand - it is true that they are stuck in the center of the city - that it is time to recover the front of the coast for the city of Las Palmas and it is time that Las Palmas de Gran Canaria enters once and for all in this blue economy so beneficial for the whole of society. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramírez Freire. For the Confederal Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mrs Pita Cárdenes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u109	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, my confederal group is going to vote - I would miss more, Mr Quevedo - for what it proposes in this motion, because it is also inspired by the policies that our group is developing in the City Hall of Las Palmas, our lieutenant mayor and the councillors of Podemos, in this city of the change of the Archipelago which is Las Palmas de Gran Canaria. We also stress our express wish that the working group that is proposed to establish in this motion to decide the future of the arsenal should do so, making it clear that it will not entail any cost to the municipal arks. The Navy has been enjoying this site for free during all these years, seventy-seven, those who have spoken before me have already said so. The fair thing would now be that his return to the city would also be at zero cost. It's not a business, it's a return. We're talking about the dock of Our Lady of the Pine. This dock was built in the early thirties of the last century with the idea of facilitating the exit to canary agricultural exports. It was popularly known as the fruit dock. In 1939, when the civil war had just ended, the couptist and dictator, Mr. Franco, decided to unilaterally suppress our commercial freedoms and eliminated our Franco Ports Act, which had been recognized in 1852. Just a year after 1939, in World War II, on December 12, 1940, the dock of Our Lady of the Pine is seized for military installations claiming that it is a strategic enclave, because it is indeed located in the center of the city of Las Palmas, a city that before the dictatorship lived handed over to the peace of transnational trade. I'm going to make you a historical point just to brag a little bit. The Law of Franco Ports implied the explicit recognition of our historical specificities. There was only one precedent in the rest of the State, which was the Foreign Confirmation Act of 1839 of the then Basque-Navarras provinces and the Pacted Act of 1841. It was two laws, all to be said also, drafted in the search for peace, after the First Carlist War. But among those were ours in 1852. Returning to the subject, as you can imagine my speech has nothing militaristic, and with this history that drags that arsenal, the naval base of Las Palmas does not awaken much sympathy in much of the population, especially the one that suffered the dictatorship, the one that suffered the persecution, the one that suffered that as a result of the repeal of our outsiders went hungry. There were important times of emigration, important migratory phenomena. Therefore, it belongs to that - as I would say - sad archaeology of the city. It reminds us of those moments of cruelty of the dictatorship, of scarcity, for the reason that by taking down our furies they condemned us to live behind our backs to our sea, to the Atlantic Ocean, for many years. Its presence in the heart of the city has also prevented the proper development of port. We have had to see how they have had to get out of the harbour to the urban coast the marina, for example, and we have loaded ourselves with a beautiful natural beach, which is Las Alcaravaneras Beach. These are the consequences of maintaining a base in the city centre for seventy-seven years. That is why the citizens of Las Palmas demand that the site that now occupies that base be turned into a meeting space between the port and the city. We hope that the transfer of that naval base, which also responds - this is important, which is not said - to the implementation of guidelines marked in the field of defence by the European Union, will only be the first of many other agreements between the institutions of the Archipelago and the State so that the security policy applied on the islands will fulfil the majority will of our people, the people of the Canary Islands, who have repeatedly expressed their desire for the Archipelago to become a territory of peace. We have known these days through the press that the Minister of Defense, Mrs. De Cospedal, was dedicated to fighting imaginary enemies, beating us all up a little bit. The citizens of the Canary Islands, on the contrary, have understood that our location, our open, Atlantic character, our peaceful, democratic and solidarity vocation is undoubtedly our best diplomatic weapon. In this respect, we have tabled a number of amendments, but one concrete amendment to the draft reform of the Statute which you know is in the Courts. - I'm done, Madam President, one second. We look forward to the support of all, since we are talking about that necessary cooperation, that peace among the peoples and nations that share this Atlantic Ocean with us. I end by paraphrasing, as always, one of our most recognized modernist poets, placing them in defense with us that the whole Archipelago, starting with the port of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, can never see its devotion to cultural exchange, social welfare and economic prosperity, which are three synonyms that can only be founded - believe it - under the inexcusable premise of peace. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u110	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pita Cárdenes. Mr Franquis Vera has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u111	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that I have thought a lot about what I was going to say today in this motion, because I defended this initiative as a councillor of the City of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, a few years ago. I do not want to share the theatre that I have felt in this Chamber today; we have been talking about this for a long time and I am very surprised that the People's Party, and especially the minister last week, speaks a lot about security. If there is an autonomous community in this country that has assumed the concept and the culture of security, it is precisely the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands. I do not understand why the Government insists so much, and the Minister of Defence insists so much, on explaining to us the importance of the security and defence that this naval base has in the Canary Islands. We have assumed it, we are aware of it; do not use that argument, because it is an excuse to divert attention and to sit on what we are going to discuss today that, by the way, we discussed it a year and a half ago. Only out of respect for what this Parliament decides, the minister and the government should assume the things they approve; a year and a half ago it was decided to set up a committee - just to set up a committee - to study, to analyse, to quantify what a city's aspiration is, which is what we are talking about. There is an aspiration of generations and generations of citizens of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria who feel they took something away from them seventy-four years ago and who want it back, want it to be returned and I am surprised that there are political leaders who do not feel that passion, that demand and that aspiration that many generations of the city of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria have. That's why it hurts, and I'm not going to participate in that theater to look good; it's not about looking good. The minister said last week that she was going to commit to creating the work commission that was approved a year and a half ago in Congress, in the Defence Commission. Why are we going to believe her now? What has changed in a year and a half to now believe the minister and not a year ago? It does not involve any economic effort, only the political will to summon the Canarian public institutions to sit down and talk, to explain what it says here. I have not yet seen any role, no report from any ministry that says the change of the naval base costs 400 million. Never, and I have been responsible for the City of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria like you, never; nor have I seen any Defence report that says that any other geographical situation on the island is discarded, never. And I've been responsible at the City Hall of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria. Someone is not telling the truth in this debate. Man, that's it! I was wondering yesterday one of my citizens, is tomorrow going to argue again on the naval base in the Congress of Deputies? And I said to him, "Well, yes. Again? But you didn't discuss it last year and the previous year and the previous year? How many institutional resolutions are there in the City Hall, in the Cabildo, in the Government of the Canary Islands talking about this matter? I refuse to participate in this theater, I refuse. What the Government has to do, if it has the real will to take on this matter, is to convene the Commission, to tell us the reports it has - if it is true that it has them - and to stop deceiving and playing with the sensibility of a city that aspires to recover what is its own. It is not a whim, because we have all talked about mobility, about the accessibility problems that the city of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria has, about the connection it has with the port; it is not a whim. The mayor of the city a few years ago, known by all of you - especially by the People's Group because he was minister of Industry and Energy with the previous government - was the first mayor of the city that incorporated the general plan to recover the naval base. So what is the point now of explaining to us how important the naval base for the safety of the Canary Islands is? We have assumed it, part of the culture, of our canarian idiosyncrasy. [[Applauds]] Why do they not convene the Commission and set up the working committee? If not, be brave and tell Canarian society: We are not going to do it, we are not going to do it because it is not the priority of the Government, we are not going to do it. I'm very surprised that the minister is very concerned about how much it's going to cost. How much is it gonna cost? You're just worried about how much this is gonna cost? Did you worry how much it would cost us all Spaniards to bail out the bank? And now you're very worried about how much this is gonna cost? If what we want is to study it with all the Canarian public administrations and the Government of Spain. Whoever! It seems to me that the amendment by the Group of the European People's Party, after two years, is for us to incorporate the Ministry of Development into this Commission. Doesn't that ring a bell? Commit yourselves to citizenship, but above all, respect the agreements that you adopt in this Parliament, in the Senate, in the Defence Committee and with what we are voting for here today. I insist, I would like us not to participate once again in this theatre, because people in the city of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria do not believe us, despite what we say here. We will not continue to collaborate with this theatre, we will insist that it is a legitimate aspiration of the city of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria to recover this naval base. I hope that we will not only remain in this vote, but that the Minister of Defence will commit herself in the coming days - as she has already committed herself here - to creating and participating in that committee. That is all we are asking for: talking, dialogue, realising the fate of the naval base. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u112	Thank you very much, Mr Franquis Vera. Mr Quevedo Iturbe, we thought we heard that he accepted the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, right? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u113	That's right, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u114	Thank you very much. - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON GOVERNMENT POLICY IN THE FISCAL FRAUD, INTERNATIONAL TAX COOPERATION AND MEASURES AGAINST TAX PARADIS. [[File number 173/000063]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u115	We continue with the motion of urgent inquiry by the Socialist Group on the Government's policy on combating tax fraud, international tax cooperation and measures against tax havens. Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor for the author group of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we Socialists believe that the decision to take effective measures to combat fraud and tax evasion is necessary and untenable, because this has not been the priority of the government of Mariano Rajoy, and the effort of the various governments in the international arena is also not the one that is required. This is evidenced by the continuous revelation of scandals that appear in the media and the Paradise Papers are a new proof of this. It is shown that the repeated use of tax havens, tax optimisation, by fraudsters to avoid their responsibility to contribute on the basis of their economic capacity, has been and is a continuing practice. There is a whole disparity of formulas and a whole specialized glossary. Tax rulings, agreements between companies and States, which apply to them substantive tax rebates or the figure of the trust, perfectly legal in the European Union, led by testaferros and which prevents the real owner of the assets that make up the entity or the practices of evasion that constitute an offence such as the formation of offshore companies in tax havens. They are practices that also undermine the redistribution of income in countries and promote inequality. Governments and the European Union know them, but they have not been able to put an end to them, and the fact that some politicians and celebrities have used them does not help to increase the credibility of the Executive. Just remember that former Minister Soria himself had to resign because he was involved in the Panamanian papers. So I ask you, gentlemen of the People's Party, that no complacency; it is urgent that we put an end to the situation of impunity of those who evade taxes. It would indeed be a very good sign that today we would achieve a unanimous pronouncement before the citizenry with the approval of this motion. Ladies and gentlemen, progress in this area is not visible and it is essential to step on the accelerator. That was also said by the European Commissioner for Economic Affairs, Pierre Moscovici, last week in the plenary session of the European Parliament, and that is the feeling with which we tabled this motion. We propose, first of all, the most urgent thing: to converge towards common rules to prevent circumventors from moving forward with distortions and regulatory differences between countries. On 5 December next there is a new meeting of the Council of Europe where the economic ministers of the various Member States will meet and, in this context, the motion is very timely because it is essential that we ask the Government of Spain to support three aspects before the European institutions as a matter of urgency. One is the presentation of a European blacklist of tax havens and their immediate translation into Spanish legislation. We must abandon our good intentions and move on to action. Tax havens are the main factory for tax evasion, so we must point them out and act against those who operate in them. Two, new rules of transparency and even sanctions for intermediaries and design participants, as well as the implementation of aggressive tax planning and tax evasion systems. Three, improving transparency and public information for companies, in line with OECD recommendations. Secondly, we urge the Government to honour the commitments made with this House to approve a new statute for the State Agency of the Tax Agency and to provide it with more means to match at least the countries in our environment. In Spain we have a staffing level in the Tax Agency below the European average, which has fallen by 10% over the last five years. [[Show a bar diagram]] We have 2748 fewer troops with the People's Party Government, so fewer means and fewer powers result from fewer complaints of tax offences. While there are new scandals that tell us that cases of fraud are increasing, reports of tax offences are falling; in fact, we already have new data and in 2016 they have fallen again compared to 2015 by 33.7%. Thirdly, we propose to draw up a comprehensive anti-fraud strategy and to submit to this House on an annual basis a report evaluating its results and its international comparison proposing the necessary modifications to correct what makes tax avoidance possible. By adding the integral qualification, we want to emphasize the need to address the problem from a broad perspective by involving different administrations and entities, influencing control, but also in education by promoting the culture of tax liability and the publication of official reports on the submerged economy and fraud that help diagnose, radiograph and tackle the problem. Fourthly, we want to know with transparency the results of the investigations; we want to know how many actions have been initiated as a result of the data published by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists and what is the amount of the debt discovered. To this end, a full report of results should be sent to Congress. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the tax amnesty has been declared unconstitutional, but its consequences are irreversible and this still makes it more serious to classify the measures that were adopted with the consequent prize it has given to the alleged defrauders. The necessary measures should therefore be taken to ascertain who received the tax amnesty. Do we demand complete transparency in order to clarify who was intended to help with this unworthy amnesty, to the state or rather to acquaintances? [[Applauds]] Minister Montoro challenged us to push him from Parliament, because here he is; to see what the group that supports him is doing, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, let me end by saying that, when we vote, do not forget: this government, because it was the one that pushed the tax amnesty, and those who took it, have incurred a moral debt with Spanish society that must pay and the approval and implementation of this point should not be an option, but an obligation for all of us. Furthermore, I would not like to end without telling you that it is essential that we launch the subcommittee on European and international fiscal harmonisation and coordination and the fight against tax fraud, which we unanimously approved at our request on 15 February. Of those that remain to be activated is the only one that has been approved in the Commission, so we will insist on the Bureau and we hope that its support will soon become a reality. Madam President, I'm done. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we urge the Government to make progress in fiscal harmonisation and in the fight against tax evasion and evasion; a priority which the Government of Mariano Rajoy has shown, with its actions, not to have, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we ask you to vote in favour of these proposals, which we consider urgent, with the conviction that we will make progress with them in strengthening a more transparent, fairer and more redistributed society. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u117	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanquer Alcaraz. For the defence of the amendments tabled, the Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Bataller i Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, paradise papers are the last scandal that confirms that there are still thousands of ways for the richest to find their way to evade taxes, because, let us remember, every time a scandal is discovered in which companies, individuals, sometimes political representatives who divert their capital to tax havens, what we really see is that we are faced with one more case of preventing funds from being raised to combat poverty and economic and social inequality. There are many scandalous cases that have recently seen the light. The Luxembourg papers, the Panama papers, the Falciani list, the offshore leaks are some of the most recent cases. We must pay tribute to the people who have managed to expose these scandals, mostly journalists; people who, after all, have nothing to do with the institutional level, which should be the most concerned about the persecution of these behaviors. It is journalists who, after all, are taking the lead in bringing all these matters to light. This is the case with the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists. Unfortunately, neither the large European institutions nor the governments nor many anti-fraud police have been able to go that far. In Spain, the collection lost by tax fraud is said to amount to EUR 40 billion, 4% of Spain's gross domestic product. They are shameful figures, of fiscal selfishness, of not contributing to the system that allows one to benefit. The fight against tax fraud is achieved through solidarity between parties, not with amnesty, not with the pardon to companies that evade the most taxes in Spain; pardon to the richest companies that, moreover, is counterproductive, because what we know about the paradise papers points out that many of those who appear in them are also those who welcomed Mr Montoro's 2012 tax amnesty. So it breaks Spain, ladies and gentlemen, by increasing the social divide and inequality between a huge part of society that is plunged into precariousness and a tiny economic elite. According to Eurostat, the Observatory of the European Commission, in 2016, almost 33% of Spanish boys and girls were at risk of poverty or social exclusion, and it is to them that we are taking away, with tax evasion, the possibility that we allocate resources, that we fight poverty and that we contribute to economic and social development. In addition, since the Finance Ministry, public officials have on several occasions requested more budget allocations. We must allocate more money from the public purses to persecute the defrauders, not to condone their debt through an unconstitutional tax amnesty, by the way. In this year's General Budgets...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u119	Mr. Bataller, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u120	...the amendments were rejected in order to extend the means to the Tax Agency, and thus we see that the complaints for tax offences fell by 33.7% in 2016, precisely because of the lack of these means. We in Compromís will support this proposal and have tabled amendments to transpose the European directives on tax fraud, to carry out cross-border work and to shield the protection of whistleblowers in the event of corruption, for example by installing anonymous mailboxes such as those we have already launched...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u121	Mr. Bataller, you have to finish please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u122	Thank you, President, I conclude. Compromis will vote in favour of this motion and we hope that the People's Party, with its vote, will also point in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u123	Thank you very much, Mr Bataller i Ruiz. Mr Bel Accensi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u124	Thank you very much. Quickly. One more week in this rostrum I must remember that there are ten people, who are political prisoners for their ideas, unjustly imprisoned and from here my memory and my recognition. Having said that, I say to you that our group is going to vote in favour of the proposal. These proposals on the fight against tax fraud, it would be good to try to reach the maximum consensus, because they may be approved and then not implemented, which has been the case for a long time. Beyond the fact that we can have disagreements on some of the points - we find it very interesting to add the compromise amendment, and I would like to say to you that we will be voting in favour - some of these aspects should be implemented within the framework of European legislation as recognised by the same proposal, and in any case they will always have us to agree positions on the fight against tax fraud. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u125	Thank you very much, Mr Bel Accensi, also for your work. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor on the position-setting shift.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u126	Good afternoon. Pick it up on. This is not the first time that we have discussed this issue through a motion by the Socialist Group, since this same year in June and September we have done so through different GNPs in the respective committees. Again this issue is current due to a new filtering of paradise papers, showing how and where people with large fortunes and weavings use money to pay less taxes. A new document leak shows how and where rich people in the world handle their money and the tricks they use to pay less taxes. We understand that taxation is one of the most important tools to build a fairer society in which no citizen is left to her fate, because it must serve to provide sufficient resources to sustain the maintenance of public services and services, to effectively redistribute wealth among the population and to boost economic growth and job creation. Of course, tax havens clash with this premise or principle, so it is necessary to put in place measures and proposals to end them and from all duly coordinated institutions. In this regard, I must say that not only are laws and measures necessary to combat tax havens, but it is also necessary to work on other elements such as cultural, sociological and even psychological ones, in which also pedagogical work will be necessary. In the international context, there is a fiscal regulation that is under continuous assessment and review to take measures appropriate to the new realities, and this has been so because the OECD itself recognized four years ago that the international tax system was obsolete and did not respond to the reality of the twenty-first century. There is still no unified list of tax havens because each country or organization applies its own valuation criteria. To date, there is still no definition of a tax haven, and neither, as I have said, does there exist a unified list of tax havens because each country applies its own valuation criteria, despite the fact that the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development defines them as countries to which money flows from abroad, to which legal and economic facilities are applied in order to avoid the payment of taxes in their country of residence, with common characteristics. On the one hand, the low or zero level of taxes, the information opacity with which they operate and the lack of transparency in operations. Since the European Commission, as I have said, different and various measures have been put in place that have begun to be implemented and adopted as a result of the LuxLeaks scandal, but we must not simply comply with them and we must go further. That is why the motion calling for the support of the European Commission for certain measures seems to us to be correct. Fighting tax fraud and tax havens, of course, requires our commitment and our effort in a coordinated way between administrations, and that is why we are going to vote in favour of this motion, although what is really important is that it has an effective implementation and that it will also require political will. Thank you. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u127	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u128	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The fight against fraud in times of amnesty, tax havens and tax breaks like the one that comes to this house today is like love in times of anger: bitter, ungrateful, but indispensable as breathing. This statement of intentions comes to the point that this motion by the Socialist Group is for the new revelations of the roles of the use of tax havens, and we must not fight tax havens and tax fraud only when there are revelations of tax havens, but we must always do so. In this respect, we say that we share the Socialist Group's motion, although in the first question on tax havens it is not well known why we forget a point we agreed on at the time with the Socialist Party and we also agreed again with the People's Party, which is not only to support the European list, but to revise the Spanish list itself to include those countries that do not comply with their obligations to Spain. This is certainly not an intentional omission, but rather an attempt to forget the question of Panama, since the Socialist Party removed it from the list of tax havens, knowing perfectly well that it was not fulfilling its obligations to Spain and that it was a refuge for fraudsters, and that neither has the People's Party included it. We agree that this European list should be supported and that this should then be transferred to domestic legislation. On the other hand, they refer here to approving the new statute of the Tax Agency and significantly increasing its human resources and natural resources, and they have said that the People's Party actually cut these resources. Even the agreement with Citizens is correct. From there there has been an increase in means. The Socialist Party began by cutting media from 2008 and then the PP governments continued. What did Citizens do? Include 100 million more euros in the fight against fraud and get, by pressing through Decree-Law 13/2017, that this becomes reality and more human and real material means in the Tax Agency. Because, of course, one thing is to bring non-law propositions and another thing is to get real reforms. Speaking here of the opportunity of the proposal, you are talking about developing a comprehensive strategy, it is fine, and after you propose the necessary modifications to correct the legal gaps. This cannot come at a more inopportune time, because today comes to this chamber a tax law that is the Law of Economic Concert to which you do not allow to change a coma, a law that will significantly diminish the information of the Tax Agency. [[Applauds]] It is a law in which serious fraud problems are sanctified. Of course, it is also an unfair law clearly regarding the over-financing of Basque farms over the rest of the Spaniards, but it is that there are also serious problems and there have been frauds arising precisely from the laws of the economic concert and yet you do not allow changing a coma. Anyway, I'm gonna be concrete. The VAT system enshrined in the Law on Economic Concert and the Law on quota methodology is nonsense and there have been serious cases. There have been cases such as that of the company Rover, in Álava, or that of the Volkswagen, in Navarra, where the VAT of the sale of the car in the Foral Treasury was entered, the whole was sold to a subsidiary in common territory, in particular in the free zone of Barcelona, and then the cars left for Europe. The VAT actually went into the rest of Europe, where the car was definitely sold, but the outside farms went into a VAT which we returned to the rest of the Spaniards. This is enshrined in the Law of the Concert and does not allow to change a coma. They won't allow it. That is what they agreed in the Bureau and what they want to ratify today after a big debate, for which we will have three minutes. However, despite the absolute opacity of this issue, they want greater clarity with regard to tax amnesty. This is a questionable point, but in general on this issue, as in many others, much more needs to be done. Much more clarity is needed, but basically the example must be applied, because not only when they have been in the government they have done the opposite - they have cut back on means in the fight against fraud and have given facilities to defraud, as in the case of Swiss accounts - but now, when they are in opposition, they allow amendments to tax laws and even when they cut back, as in this case, information to the Tax Agency and facilitate fraud, they allow amendments to be made. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. De la Torre Díaz. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea, Mr Guijarro García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u130	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to start with the obvious and the obvious is that the first accomplice of tax fraud, at least as a major problem in Spain, is the government's fiscal amnesty. I would like to begin by reading part of the Constitutional Court's ruling in this regard. The court then said that this measure entailed the abdication of the State - the abdication of the State, what a very serious accusation - in its obligation to give effect to article 31.1 of the Spanish Constitution, the one that says that the tax system must be inspired by the principles of equality and progressiveness. In other words, the Spanish Government is currently the first to break the basic consensus of the country's economic constitution. The constitutional pact in many ways is broken and we have not broken it. I would also like to touch on Mr Montoro's economic counter-argument. He says that, thanks to this measure, the amount of money that was previously hidden came out - that verb so springy, so optimistic. However, this is not true. The measure involves bread for today, hunger for tomorrow and also hunger for today. What this measure has meant is that a precedent is created and the feeling of impunity spread, so I would like to ask the Government what will happen next time the public treasury is lost. Will the government stop considering this possibility to congratulate some of its financiers and, why not say so too, some of its friends? Today we have heard, for example, in the People's Party's Illegal Financing Commission that Mr Bárcenas was one of the supporters of this amnesty. And more so when there are not even remedial or punitive measures that discourage him. The court itself recognized that his sentence was incapable of correcting absolutely nothing. I am not going to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that I envy those countries that put a finance minister in jail for such misdemeanour, but I will tell you that I envy those whose finance minister resigns sharply in the face of such disqualification from the court. There is a double dose of immorality in all this, ladies and gentlemen, because the government forgives one another and not the other. Forgive yours and not the others. It's all for yours and against ours. Let's say it. The government's stuck with their own to shoot at our own. This has to be said. Mr Montoro in that sense is a fervent follower of Marxist theses, since he as no one believes in the class struggle. This is the graph that shows exactly his blind faith in the class struggle. [[Shows a chart.-Applause]] We see the rise in the number of rich in the country throughout the People's Party legislature and the rise in the number of poor in the country. This gap, ladies and gentlemen, is the scandal of an entire nation. We should keep that in mind. I also want to talk about the permanent tax amnesty that has been practiced in this country over many years. There is a hidden welfare state, as experts call it. The expression they use rather is that of fiscal welfare; that is, tax collection is one of the lowest, according to OECD standards, and employment income in Spain is taxing 25, 30 and up to 45% compared to 18% of non-employment income. Fedea's latest report also estimates that there is hardly an interval between 40 and 55% of the percentage of compliance with these incomes; a indeed scandalous fact. [[The lady]] Let's also talk about the tax agency. In 2015, it was already said that more taxpayers had been investigated in relation to other years. This is true, however, the average found per taxpayer is lower. What's this telling us? That the Tax Agency increasingly inspects the lowest income sections where it is easier to recover money, but the high sections are absolutely forgotten. There is also an opacity in the data provided on the fight against fraud, and that is why we call on the Government to make public the information on the tax offences reported, on the actions of executive revenue, and on the revenues of liquidations and acts of collection management, which reflect the fundamental core of the economic results of the fight against fraud. Until now, they had always been published and this year we still do not know why it has not been so. I would also like to say that we agree with the Socialist Party on some of the points in its motion that Mrs Blanquer has pointed out. I want to start with the coincidences. Of course we agree on a statute for the Tax Agency; in that we too were very insistent on our programme. We also believe that there must be a director of that tax agency who is elected by Congress. That could be one of the measures we could discuss in the future. And, of course, we also agree with a multiannual plan of anti-fraud measures. But I would also like to ask the Socialist Party to reflect with us on the possibility of rationalising the entire tax system. That's something we've been claiming, too. Effective progressivity must be implemented. As you know, Mrs Blanquer, the Spanish tax system is currently a great gruyère cheese: it seems progressive, but with so many holes and holes it is very easy to sneak in. We also want to point this out because, as long as we do not simplify, we do not clarify and make the Spanish tax system more progressive, fraud will always be an alternative that the bad guys will have before them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u131	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Madrazo Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u132	President, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is not going to vote against the motion put forward by the Socialist Group. Why? Firstly, because in these matters we believe that we must send society a message of unity and, secondly - and even more importantly - because the People's Party Government is already working on all the issues you raise in this motion. The problem, from our point of view, is that the Socialist Party is concerned about tax fraud when there are media scandals, like the roles of paradise, and in our view that is a media fiscal posture. What really needs to be offered to society is results and the results they had in the fight against fraud in the years they were in the Spanish Government were really scarce. In politics, it is not enough to declare good intentions, but to achieve results and be effective. In this regard, the Government of the People's Party can present a brilliant record in the fight against fraud. Let's make comparisons. Government of the PSOE: tax collection fell in pieces; zero-type taxation of large companies; collapse of corporate tax collection; two, not one, but two totally opaque tax amnesties; a Falcian list of Spanish people with money in Switzerland who left from rositas, not to mention what they have already mentioned, that they removed Panama from the list of tax havens. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u133	Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u134	Government of the People's Party: a real flood of legislative measures adopted to combat tax fraud and, by the way, with its vote against; historical results of collection in that fight of 65,332 million; above all, a tax agency more efficient than ever, because it has achieved those results by less means, it is true, fruit of the economic crisis, but with better tools and with the intelligent use of new technologies. Among other tools that I would like to mention here, I would like to remind you that thanks to the declaration of goods and rights abroad and also thanks to this extraordinary fiscal regularization, tax bases worth more than EUR 140 billion have emerged - yes, they have emerged. We have therefore again secured the pre-crisis collection, that of 2007. I ask you where the socialist government was, because those goods and rights were abroad also when you were in the government, and were hidden and opaque from the tax. They're in the tax databases today. Consequently, lessons from the Socialist Group, none, because it does not hang, gentlemen of the PSOE. His motion is purely fiscal posture. For example, speaking of controlling big fortunes, there have never been so many means of controlling big fortunes, especially because the Tax Agency, as I say to you, has much more information on those big fortunes thanks to the elimination of bank secrecy and because a large number of tax information exchange agreements with other countries have been signed by a government of the People's Party. Against your destructive criticism I will tell you that we sincerely believe that today there is better compliance with fiscal obligations, because citizens are aware that there are more tools to corner fraudsters because new measures have been put in place, such as the integrated VAT information system, which is a method of controlling real-time trade traffic that provides very important information for the Tax Agency. Therefore, the submerged economy is flourishing. As far as tax havens are concerned, Spain is also very active, as you know, in the European institutions and a Community directive has already been adopted which will come into force in the near future so that there will be a blacklist of tax havens. The OECD BEPS project is also noteworthy. Our country has taken all relevant measures, including country-by-country information requested in your motion. But, no doubt, Mrs Blanquer, above all the results achieved by the Tax Agency are the best antidote against your constant criticism. Let's go to the positive part. In times of crisis, budgetary restraint, the Tax Agency has been a very effective and efficient administration, and we should all congratulate ourselves on that and congratulate the excellent professionals of the Tax Agency. By the way, tax offences have actually fallen, but having done a greater number of inspections than in the socialist era, you will not pretend to tell us that inspectors do not investigate well or do not do their job well or look elsewhere. I think it's a very strong accusation. In conclusion, we will ask you, as you know, to vote on points. We are in favour of most of the points that are requested here, but there is an insurmountable point, which is the fifth, because it obliges not only to change the General Tax Law, which obliges the confidentiality of tax data, but also the Law on Data Protection, and that is a bigger word, because we already had a report from the Council of State when we forced to publish the sentences for tax offences. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party is aware that this subject gives a lot of scope for demagogy, but let us avoid that partisan temptation and make concrete proposals. We are going to be serious and we are going to work together and with our feet on earth, because it will be the way forward in zero tolerance with the defrauders. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u135	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz whether she accepts her group's amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u136	Madam President, we very much appreciate the amendment you have tabled, Compromises, but there are a number of political groups in this House who have asked us to vote on points and therefore we cannot accept the amendments in this regard because we want to achieve a broad majority.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u137	Thank you very much, Mrs Blanquer. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the next item on the agenda, I remind you that there is still an important part of the plenary, and I remind you that, please, with this murmur it is impossible to spend another hour in plenary. So if you don't want to be quiet... ladies! [[The Rumors Continue]] When I say keep quiet, the least you can do is keep quiet listening to me; it's the least you can do. We continue the plenary session. - the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the United States of America can join the Confederal Group of the European Parliament and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as well as the Protocol on Collective Claims of 1995. [[File number 173/000064]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u138	We continue with the debate on the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea concerning the ratification of the revised European Social Charter, as well as the 1995 Protocol on Collective Claims. For the author group of the initiative, Mr Monereo Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u139	Thank you, President. This motion has something interesting; it coincides with the Gothenburg declaration and the discovery of the social pillar of the European Union. It is worth linking both, because we had not realized that after sixty years the European Union did not have a social pillar. Now it is discovered that it has a social pillar. We must give the merit that deserves this discovery, precisely when it comes to nothing more and nothing less than ratifying the European Social Charter that Spain, by the way, already signed in 2000 but did not ratify. The social pillar of the European Union is of great interest, especially to see what we might call the analysis and the proposal. He is very interested because the diagnosis is very accurate, very serious, very strong. It comes to say the following, and Juncker has repeated it a lot this weekend: firstly, a huge disaffection to democracy in all the countries of the Union; secondly, a growing disaffection to the European Union itself, with the growth of parties and forces openly by the exit of the European Union, and all this in the midst of a very serious social crisis affecting the identity of the European Union itself. And what's the cause? This is what the documentation says, the resolutions of Parliament: the cause is austerity policies. According to Juncker, austerity policies are the biggest mistake in the European Union and we must try to get out of them as soon as possible. How interesting that Mr Juncker tells us that the underlying issue is the austerid policies that have been made. And that is considered the fundamental element. It is also worth taking into account here what contribution is being made. What is the alternative to this? The alternative is nothing more and nothing less than a new declaration of rights that was already in different parts of the European Union's own legislation. In other words, there is a tremendous asymmetry between the analysis of the diagnosis and the alternative proposal. It turns out that, in the face of such a serious situation, what is proposed are twenty points, that I would dare say in this like the old Bobbio, that more than standards are good intentions, and that with these good intentions we intend to summarize the crisis. Fritz Scharpf, who certainly has the best monograph on the European Union, argues that the European Union has, like any political system, three legitimacys, but that it can only have one legitimacy. The three legitimacys are well known: that of origin, exercise and results. The problem is that the European Union will only be viable if it has a legitimacy of results, that is, if people associate social progress and economic progress with the European Union, the European Union will be viable; if it does not have that partnership, the European Union is not viable. That's the bottom line, that's the situation we're going through right now. José Luis Monereo, whom I know quite well, usually says in the face of this crisis situation that we are facing a problem of difficult solution. Why? Because all the political and social legislation that comes or imposes directly or indirectly on the European Union puts into question the social state of each of the States belonging to the European Union, and above all of the euro area, and above all of the southern zone. And the fundamental problem is that, as he advances what he calls the backsliding of the social constitution and the growing commercialization of labor relations, a new culture is being imposed, a new policy precisely against the historical conquests of the workers' movement. So, where is the key?, where should the solution be? The solution would have to be putting the social state and social constitutionalism in the treaties themselves, making them binding, making them real instruments that people - workers, trade unions - could use as instruments to defend their social conquests. But that does not exist and we are again condemned to a set of good intentions, all magnificent, without any budget behind and without any alternative. The alternative we propose is very simple: to ratify the European Social Charter. And why ratify the European Social Charter? Because it has three decisive elements: first, it has the greatest canon or list of social rights that we know, perfectly articulated; second, its formulation is based on the fact that social rights are fundamental rights that must be protected as such fundamental rights, which today are not, and third, it has a great social consensus. Do not forget that forty-three States already have the original European Social Charter, thirty-three States have the revised European Social Charter and sixteen States already have the collective claim, so we are in a position to say that, by ratifying this letter, we are really moving forward a Europe with a solvent social foothold and we are also going to try to solve workers' problems seriously. I'm done. This is the option, this is the alternative. I think we should all say, now that we're talking about a new social pillar, that's better than good known than bad to know. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u140	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendment put forward by the People's Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Alberto Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appear on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to defend our amendment and lay down the position on the motion put forward by Podemos concerning the ratification of the revised European Social Charter, as well as the signing and ratification of the 1995 Protocol on Collective Claims. As the previous speaker said, the representative of Podemos, last Friday a high-level summit was held in Gothenburg between the Heads of State and Government of the European Union to further advance and talk about additional social rights of the more than 500 million Europeans who make up the Union. This summit was concluded with a text agreed by the States which sets as its objective the effective enjoyment of about twenty social rights for all Europeans. In this context, the data currently being handled reflect a very social Europe. With 7% of the global population and 25% of the world's wealth, European social spending accounts for 50% of all social spending in the world. In Spain, 6 out of every 10 euros that are budgeted are allocated to social expenditure items and, being the country in the world that has signed and ratified the largest number of conventions, we have a much more tuitious domestic legislation in the labor and social sphere than that established in these instruments and in many of the domestic laws of other countries in our environment. I believe that it is beyond doubt that this country shares the principles set out in the European Social Charter and in all the conventions we have signed at European level which either establish progress or strengthen social rights. However, such progress should not lead to a lack of legal certainty or a lack of the principle of legality. This position is not exclusive to the Government of Spain, since, as you know, countries such as Germany, the United Kingdom or Denmark, which are unlikely to base their pillars on a social state, have not yet ratified the revised European Social Charter. As Minister Báñez pointed out in her speech in plenary, an intense debate is currently taking place in the Council of Europe as a result of the insecurity created by the dynamic interpretation carried out by the Committee on Social Rights of the revised European Social Charter, which is why we propose in our amendment to wait for the content of the report being prepared by the Steering Committee on Human Rights of the Council of Europe itself on social rights in Europe and which seeks a technical and consensual solution that guarantees legal certainty and the principle of legality in the face of conflicts arising from the interpretation of the Committee on Social Rights, which has come into conflict with some of the precepts laid down in the European Convention on Human Rights and with general criteria of international law. In the light of what I have said, a responsible and prudent attitude means waiting for the content of the report that is being prepared by the Steering Committee on Human Rights of the Council of Europe and that work will continue in the framework of social dialogue and political debate with the autonomous communities to take the necessary measures to enable us to ratify the revised European Social Charter. With regard to the request for the signature and ratification of the 1995 Protocol on Collective Ratifications, at present only fifteen countries have ratified the Protocol and, as I have already pointed out, it has presented many problems for the signatories given the discrepancies between Community law and that of the European Social Charter, since in the case of the member countries of the European Union there are contradictions in the sense that in fulfilling one of the rights it is in breach of another, leaving these States insecure to be subject to complaint, as happened in the Laval case. We consider the current system of collective complaints to be appropriate, which makes it possible to report to the Council of Europe violations of the European Social Charter in the various international and national organizations. From the People's Parliamentary Group we believe that the Spaniards must be proud of the model of well-being that we have given ourselves among all, which goes beyond the commitments that we have made when signing and ratifying the various international conventions: 140 billion euros in pensions, more than 14 million public benefits paid each month and a wide network of social support impossible to comment on in this short time of intervention are good proof of the greatness of our model of well-being. This is only possible thanks to the contribution and effort of all Spaniards and to the serious and responsible work of a government that has managed to reverse a serious situation and create the conditions necessary for Spanish society to create more than 500,000 jobs each year. Maintaining our welfare model, ladies and gentlemen, is only feasible if we are able to follow the path we have set for more than twenty million people working at the end of 2019. To this end, we would be delighted to have the cooperation of all the parliamentary groups present in this House. That's all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Campuzano i Canades has the floor at the time of the joint parliamentary group's fixing of positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Monereo, thank you for your initiative and your intervention. I must say that, beyond the text that we are going to vote on, I believe that in its arguments the European Union and the Council of Europe were opposed to this new social pillar announced by the European leaders a few days ago and called for this ratification of the Social Charter by bringing their greatest strength, their greatest presence in time, their greatest security. On this diagnosis I have a point of discrepancy because, moreover, in his speech he stated that it seemed as if the European Union's development project had as its purpose or as a consequence the weakening of the European social model. Mr Monereo, you will agree with me that it is precisely the most advanced countries in social welfare in the world that have the most developed welfare states that are showing that they can perfectly combine economies open to globalization, open to international trade, creators of services and goods of high added value, those that make up the European Union and also with strong, powerful, inclusive social protection models. I am referring, as you know perfectly well, to Nordic models. If there is political will, if there is social commitment, if the social pact is firm it is perfectly compatible to develop the European Union's model of integration, participation in globalisation and, at the same time, strengthening these models of social protection. Therefore, that contradiction that you raise depends on us; it depends fundamentally on the choices that we take in this House and that we take society as a whole. [[Rumors]] Now, given this consideration...
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u145	... what is true, ladies and gentlemen, is that on several occasions this Congress of Deputies has already approved that mandate to the Government for the ratification of the revised European Social Charter. I am unable now to remember exactly how many times it has been approved, but in the Employment Committee we have approved it at least on a couple of occasions, even on one of those occasions through a parliamentary initiative formulated by my former parliamentary group, for example, very focused on a very specific issue - on which you too will share our interest - such as strengthening the right to housing for people. Therefore, we do need to ratify the revised European Social Charter; this Parliament has mandated it to the Government but the Government has failed to fulfil that parliamentary mandate. The spokesman for the People's Group spoke to us about a report. I think we've been doing this for years, and I really hope that we'll be on it soon. A few months ago we met with a representative of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe who was preparing a report on why Spain had not yet ratified the European Social Charter. Therefore, there is no time to waste and, if I may, we must add two more considerations there. One, which is a challenge to all the parliamentary groups and to the members of this House, is that we do not strive to follow up on the recommendations that the European Committee makes regarding the degree of compliance or non-compliance with the Social Charter, and here we have a good working document that should allow all the parliamentary groups both the legislative initiative and the control of government action. It would be good if we took these reports of recommendations on the Spanish State seriously, I insist. And secondly, and that is where the United We can introduce an element that had not been present in our debates, that explicit reference to the collective complaints protocol of 1995, which is not a minor issue, because what we would be mandated to take on that protocol is that the social partners and other organisations representing civil society also participate in the monitoring of the implementation of the European Social Charter. All of these are reasons why the Members of the Democratic Party should support this initiative, also convinced that the European pillar that has been announced to us is an opportunity to revitalize, strengthen and resize the European project in its full dimension. We have no future without that social dimension of the European project and there we will be from the absolute conviction that is our collective response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u147	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The fact is that the debate that took place last week with the question made by the representative of Podemos surprised me for two reasons. Firstly, because, as Mr Campuzano has just said, this is an old debate. I have pointed out that at least three plenary sessions and two sessions of the Committee on Employment have discussed the possibility of ratifying or recommending to the Government the ratification of the European Charter of Employment, but what drew my most attention was the reply given by the Minister to the effect that, as a result of that request, she called for a postponement of the ratification of the European Social Charter, despite its age, despite the fact that it was signed, by the way, that there was a conflict between the activities of the European Council of Social Rights and that of the European Commission of Human Rights, under the Council of Europe. It was a debate that caught my attention because it highlighted the possibility that there might be some kind of conflict between the interpretation made by the European Council of Social Rights of the extension of certain rights of a social nature and that relating to the intensity or guarantee that fundamental rights are made also from the scope of the Council of Europe. The truth is that it is not entirely uncertain the mention made to it by the Minister of Employment. It is true - and the representative of the Group of the European People's Party has commented - that some judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union - the Laval, Viking and some others - resulted in the existence of an area at least of conflict in the interpretation of these social rights. However, I would like to make a first point: social rights as such are already part of the Treaty on European Union as a result of their incorporation through Article 6 of the Treaty of Lisbon. Therefore, they already have a fundamental highlight, they have an already protection and guarantee of fundamental rights those of social content. We are therefore in the midst of a debate on which we should know whether there is indeed any consequence in order - I come back to the beginning - to the ratification of the European Social Charter. In this situation, it is true that the spokesman of the Group of the European People's Party - with whom I have contacted - has given me a lot of information, and I have also reviewed the appeals, and it is true that there is a reference to the existence of a hypothetical report that would assess the hypothetical existence of this area of friction between the interpretation made by the Court of Justice of the European Union and the interpretation made, also endowed with certain doctrinal or jurisprudence content, by the European Commission of Social Rights. If this were to be the case, it could certainly be thought that that might somehow condition ratification, but the truth is that I haven't been able to verify it, that's the way it is. Even, I ask myself the following question, even if there was this area of friction, in the area of ratification that possibility could also be saved in some way. I am inclined to do so at the moment; that is, to bring to this debate the favourable position of my group to remind the Government of the desirability of ratifying this treaty. However, it is also true that I am concerned, because from the examination of the specific cases, it does follow that a certain lack of guarantees against certain social rights as a result of the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union does jeopardize the protection that appears to have provided them by the doctrine of the European Committee of Social Rights, which would lead to an even greater conflict: from the political point of view, what protection we intend to give to those rights which are also basic and also part of the Treaty on European Union. In principle, I reiterate my position in favour of the recommendations for ratification of the European Social Charter; however, I also express my concern that this is a debate which seems to us to be wrong, inappropriate and which does not benefit the construction of a more social Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u148	Thank you very much. Mrs Faba de la Encarnación has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea brings us a motion, as a result of urgent questioning to the Government, concerning the ratification of the revised European Social Charter, as well as the signing and ratification of the 1995 Protocol on Collective Complaints. We are already voting in favour since in a country that has an unacceptable employment rate, with more than one million unemployed under the age of 30 and almost another million over the age of 50, where more than half of the unemployed are long-term unemployed, where nine out of ten contracts are temporary, with a child poverty risk rate of almost 30% or with almost half of the unemployed without unemployment coverage, the rights enshrined in the European Social Charter, such as the right to work, to work conditions and to equal pay, to the protection of maternity, guidance and vocational training, must be guaranteed more than ever. In our parliamentary group, however, we prefer to reach agreements and bring forward useful measures for citizens rather than simply making declarations, and we can say, yes, that this year we have turned the government's social policy around after years of cuts in education, health, social services or innovation, and without tax increases. We have already started up more than €4 billion in reforms to recover the middle class and the working class and to modernise Spain in the 2017 budgets; measures such as wage supplement, a plan to combat child poverty, personalized professional guidance for the long-term unemployed, the extension to four weeks of paternity permits or €12 billion for employment training policies that contribute to making the rights enshrined in the European Social Charter a reality. By the year 2018 Citizens have managed once again to pull out more than 8 billion euros in reforms to give relief to the middle and working class. That is why we do not understand that the Socialist Party does not support them and remains installed in the no. We do not understand how it can oppose an agreement that has a tax reduction of EUR 2 billion for mileurist workers, for workers in the two lowest sections of the IRPF. We do not understand how it could vote against another increase in paternity leave, another advance in conciliation; how it can be against a wage supplement that will allow wages to be dignified and provide better training to up to 500 000 young people at zero cost; how it can oppose a new aid of EUR 1000 per year for families to take their children from zero to three years to school for children and how it can be against a long-term training check that will enable them to choose the courses they need most. It's really incomprehensible. Finally, I would like to recall that the commitment of our parliamentary group to the founding social rights of the European Union, which the proposing group is talking about in its motion, is total. We not only talk about the European Union when it suits us politically, but we want to move forward and build a strong Europe. To this end, we signed with the Government of the People's Party, with the 150 demands for Rajoy's investiture, to bet decisively on further deepening the process of integration of the European Union in all areas: economic and monetary, fiscal and banking, commercial, political, social and security and defence. We will vote in favour of this motion, but remembering once again that great changes are always achieved not only with words, but with determination and real will; that is, with deeds. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u150	Thank you very much. Mrs González Bayo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u151	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are here to discuss a commitment; a commitment to dignity, a commitment to freedom and equality of persons, a commitment to the rights of workers... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u152	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u153	..., a commitment to citizenship and justice, a commitment that implies guaranteeing in our country the social rights of all people. Over the past six years, the Spanish and Spanish have been frustrated by the policies of the People's Party, totally ideological policies that do not respond to any crisis but to the phenotype of the People's Party; policies that sought a goal: a more unequal and weaker society. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u155	And, of course, this has been brought about by large social cuts and large labour cuts, and by a pathological obsession with accelerated adjustments that lack equity in public deficits. This path has not brought the results they expected. They have been disastrous in economic terms, but they have been devastating in terms of the social cohesion of the country. The Socialist Parliamentary Group is concerned every week with bringing to this House initiatives to fight for equal opportunities, initiatives to recover the welfare state, initiatives to improve the lives of the long-term unemployed, initiatives for our young people to have a future. [[Applauds]] And I tell the honourable Member that she has intervened before me that we do not want minimums, we want maximums for society. [[Applauds]] Spain needs to regain its social soul; it needs to regain the dignity of the 13 million people who today are at risk of exclusion or at risk of poverty. Because the crisis has brought a lot of inequality, but it has led a government that did not put on the table any social cohesion measures, which the only thing you have put on the table - do not tell me no, ma'am - have been social cuts, 40% unemployment benefits. Today we have more than half of the people stopped without any kind of benefit. This is the failure of the policies of the People's Party. But there is always an opportunity to change and the opportunity we have today if you join in ratifying the European Social Charter, a letter that would mean deepening the Spanish social state and also our full social internationalization. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u156	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u157	And why hasn't it been done in these years? Because the economic and commercial aspects are the ones that have prevailed in the policies carried out during these six years. Ratification of the revised European Social Charter would mean reducing the poverty that many citizens are suffering today in our country and strengthening the welfare state. Last Friday, as another Member said, we all attended the Gothenburg Summit, an institutional proclamation of the social pillar. We are very pleased that this step has been taken but we would not like it to remain in a mere photo, in a static photo, we would like it to be the starting point, which would constitute a real effort to recover the social face of Europe, a face that has been very deteriorated in recent years. That is why the Socialists are going to join the ratification of the 1996 European Social Charter and the Collective Claim Protocol, and we call on the Government to take a step forward and to take the commitment to fight for a more social state, to give greater prominence to the social partners, to give them more representativeness so that they can legitimately present any collective claim in Europe whenever there is any change in the right of the European Social Charter. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to move forward with a social citizenship and a social conscience; we need to fight for a better life for the workers, who are the vast majority of the citizens of this country, who stand up every day for having a better life. We therefore urge the Government to ratify and implement the revised European Social Charter and the Collective Claim Protocol. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u158	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Monereo Pérez whether he accepts his group's amendment.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u159	The People's Party has not convinced us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u160	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u161	We move on to the next item on the agenda. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. We will move on to the discussion of the agreement on direct and read-only processing of the bill amending Law 12/2002 of 23 May approving the Economic Concert with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and the bill approving the methodology for marking the Basque Country quota for the five-year period 2017-2021, which will be discussed cumulatively as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons. On a three-minute position-setting basis, Mr Alli Martínez has the floor in the first place by the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Denial]] Mr. Baldoví Roda. [[Denial]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u162	Thank you, Madam President. I had no intention of intervening because in that process of whether or not the single reading is accepted there has never been a debate and it has always been by consent. It makes even less sense to be dealing with the Basque Economic Concert Law and Basque quota. It has always been so, and not just now, that the very essence of forality, the pact, demands that there be an agreement between two governments and that this is voted on, whether or not it is said yes by the institutions. But this was also before the Spanish Constitution was adopted, since the convention and the concert existed. And the single reading is logical because it is a single article law, which cannot be amended; the Spanish Government cannot present it per se but needs a prior agreement. It is therefore dealt with as required by law, as stated in the Constitution, but also because it is dealt with by the Constitutional Court. I will briefly read a few paragraphs in some judgments: 76/1988, 208/2012, 179/1989. They say that the concert and the quota are literally pacified between administrations; that is, there is a pre-negotiation phase between the two governments that is reflected in a text agreed by both parties and a second phase approved by means of the single state laws, without any kind of amendments being possible since the essential core of the institutional guarantee of forality lies in its peaceful nature. Thus, as also expressed by the Constitutional Court, the peaceful character is, in terms of the constitutional doctrine, the identifiable core of the institution, the minimum without which the same image of forality would disappear. If there is no such pacified content, the forality disappears, which protects and respects the first additional provision of the Constitution. More clarity and constancy on the part of the Constitutional Court, impossible. There is therefore no opacity in this debate. The debate will have it and we will have it on Thursday and everything is public; the content is public and is published in the newsletter. This House would not be able to deal with it in any other way, if it were to incur unconstitutionality. Citizens therefore have a problem with the legal system, that legal system that they say we must always comply with.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u163	Thank you very much. Mr De la Torre Díaz has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Total opacity is not a democratic guarantee, it is absolute impunity. [[Applauds]] I rise here today on behalf of my group, of the voters who are being subjected, in our opinion, to a democratic outrage, to a democratic anomaly because representatives of national sovereignty are not allowed to touch a coma on tax laws that affect the pocket of all Spaniards, and this is democratically unacceptable. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the origin of parliaments is the famous principle of non taxation without representation, you cannot pass taxes, you cannot approve the distribution of public burdens in opacity and without the representation of the Spaniards having nothing to say and not being able to touch a coma. That is not the way to pass the laws. In our view, this law comes here on a single reading by an agreement of the House Bureau by a majority, right, which now has to ratify the plenary, but which must comply with Rule 150 of the House's Rules of Procedure. The representative of the Basque Nationalist Party said it was a unique article. The only article is the other law that is going to be voted here too that has two lines, this has hundreds of pages. It has an absolute opacity. It must be recognized, however, that the Basque Government is slightly less opaque because the agreements at least publish them, which the Spanish Government has not done with regard to the agreements of the joint committee, chaired by Montoro, which affect rights and obligations. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, the People's Party and parties that are supposed to be left-wing or defined as such, such as the PSOE or We can, of course, as representatives, subsidize the rich, can establish - as they do establish - a negative quota, can establish that the gentlemen who have their children in barracks in Almeria or Alicante finance the highest educational expenditure in Spain, which is that of the Basque Country, that is, the best schools. Of course they can establish it, but they have to do it with light and stenographers. You must answer to the voters. [[Applauds]] Here, ladies and gentlemen, I do not come today to ask for justice, that is, to give everyone their own - and of course over-financing and that the quota is negative is not - but to ask for something minimal, a minimum of democracy and clarity, to know what is being done. In this sense, the only thing I ask you to do is simply to process this as a law, with debate, and not in less than three minutes, which gives you no time to explain anything. I mean, it's a question - here we always go back to history - very, very old. Give yourself the light. That's a luxury. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u165	Mrs Alba Goveli has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u166	Thank you, President. It is surprising that you are forcing a debate on the procedure and that after all you are not talking about is actually the procedure. What's more, they don't even understand what we're talking about. They don't understand what the Basque Concert is. And he said that we have already addressed the issue of the procedure, but it is seen that it is not a minor issue. The two laws we are talking about today - it is essential to remind you of this, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens - are the result of an agreement between two governments. They are therefore bilateral and agreed instruments. The Courts can only ratify or return, but not change them unilaterally, as you claim. This is because the Constitution recognizes and defends foral integrity and therefore excludes the possibility, as I have already pointed out, of a unilateral modification by either side of the terms of the agreement. This is evident, first of all, because it is stated in the text of the Law on Economic Concert in its first provision. He said that any amendment had to go through the same procedure as it had been approved, i.e. by the Joint Committee comprising the Central and Basque Governments. And secondly - it has been pointed out before - by the jurisprudence itself. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u167	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u168	In view of two appeals for tax changes, one brought by the central Government in 1993 and the other by the Navarro in 2012, which has already been cited, in the first case the Supreme and in the second case the Constitutional Court point out that the Constitution provides an institutional guarantee of forality, which in its participatory variant requires that any change in these tax systems must be made bilaterally. In fact, the Constitutional Court even recognizes the special involvement of outside institutions in the delimitation of the tax system, which prevents any bilateral modification and shields them from possible unilateral changes by the State. While it is true that I am referring to two judgments on two different systems - on the one hand, the Navarro convention and, on the other, the Basque concert - the reality is that both share the principle of unilateral unchangeability. Why do I have to explain all this to you again? Because listening to you today, lords of Citizens, anyone would say that with bilaterality we have met. It is not that they have a narrow, regressive and deeply ideological project of State, but that they have a genuine allergy to bilaterality and multilaterality between administrations. Well, we think it's the other way around. Multilaterality is the principle on which the best, most durable and, above all, mutually beneficial agreements are based. I'm finishing up. In this case I said that we are faced with a bilateral agreement that is important and that is why I cannot say that this urgent procedure that they propose is not the right one. It is the result of a very badly done pact. If everything has to be accelerated, it is because the bad practices of the PNV and the People's Party force us to force the procedures, weakening the legitimacy of something that is a fundamental right of Basque citizens. Thus they manage, among other things, to give a field to the re-centralizing discourses and without alternatives such as that of Citizens. I'm done. We will vote in favour and we will do so in defence of bilateral institutionality; we will do so on political responsibility, but we will do so, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV and the PP, despite you. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Barreda de los Ríos has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u170	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall intervene very briefly to establish differences with Mr De la Torre. The procedure envisaged is not only the correct one, but the only legally possible one in this area. It is not an occurrence either of the Bureau of Congress or of the Government, but the Government, the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen have implemented the Law on Economic Concert, which provides that its amendment will be made by the procedure followed for its approval in its second additional provision. There's no doubt about it. Therefore, having a legal foresight, what we do is obey the law, because the laws are to comply with them; not to discuss whether we comply with them, Mr. De la Torre, but to comply with them. The question I have to ask you today, hearing you here, as excited as you have come up to the rostrum, is why we have to debate whether we comply with the law. Why is Citizens opposed to law enforcement in this House, the same House that applied the law we are applying, by the way? Why does law enforcement have to depend on citizens' political opinion or convenience? Or is it that you defend that we have to comply with the law in Catalonia and we can discuss law enforcement in the Congress of Deputies to approve the economic concert? Listening to you, honestly, it seems to me that as far as law enforcement is concerned, you have alternative convictions according to the day of the week, the geographical location or the political convenience that is passed through your head. That's called political opportunism, Mr. De la Torre. It's called opportunism or populism: tax populism, tax populism... [[Applauds]] What you have tried to do here today and what you are trying to do these days throughout the process of the economic concert and the quota is to miserably sow the doubt and mistrust between Spanish and Spanish towards their institutions and about how they deal with tax rules. That is what you are trying to do to strictly take political advantage of this process. Tax populism that marks as opaque a process in Congress, which is light and tachographs by definition and with all the possibilities of requesting information that you have had. You may ask for information, although you are not obliged. But he has not used for months the possibility of obtaining the information he now says is missing. Tax populism which states that no amendments can be tabled. You say that no amendments can be tabled, and you say that in the same amendment you have tabled to this bill. In the amendment you say that no amendments can be tabled. [[Applauds]] Since November 10, you can submit amendments according to the House's official bulletin; all those you want, one to the whole and the partials you want. Forgive me, all you want. Yes, Mr. Rivera, learn a little. Read the Rules and learn. I'm done. The truth is that you can table an amendment or five hundred and all of them would qualify as amendments in their entirety. You can block and detail the bill. You can submit any amendments you want. Yeah, don't explain it to me. In any case, tax populism, because what you have believed in in this process is that you do not know the law we are applying, you have not even read the concert, you regret to lack the information you have not asked for and you do not know the Rules. That's the rigour of Citizens. That's what's behind all that fuss and populism. That is the credibility that your demagogy or populism deserves when it contrasts with reality, as we will probably see on Thursday as well. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u171	Thank you very much. - DIRECT AND SINGLE READING TREATMENT AGREEMENT FOR THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENT OF LAW 42/2015, OF 5 OCTOBER, REFORM OF LAW 1/2000, OF 7 JANUARY, OF CIVIL JUDGMENT, TO GUARANTEE THE EFFECTIVENESS OF TAX MINISTER COMMUNICATION ACTS. [[File number 122/000129]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u172	We continue with the agreement of direct and single reading of the proposed law amending Law 42/2015 of 5 October on the reform of Law 1/2000 of 7 January on Civil Prosecution, to ensure the effectiveness of the communication acts of the prosecutor's office. This item shall be put to the vote without debate after consideration of the proposal for a law. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote will begin in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin voting. We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress to amend Law 42/2015, of 5 October, to reform the Law 1/2000, of 7 January, on Civil Prosecution, in order to ensure the effectiveness of the communication acts of the prosecutor's office. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 plus 3 telematics votes, 333; 245 plus 2 telematics votes, 247; abstentions, 85 plus 1 telematics vote, 86.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u174	It's taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u175	We shall now put to the vote the agreement on the direct and single reading of the draft law amending Law 12/2002 of 23 May approving the Economic Concert with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 plus 3 telematics votes, 333; 292 plus 2 telematics votes, 294; 35 plus 1 telematics vote, 36; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u176	Accordingly, the agreement on direct and read-only processing was approved by the plenary of the above-mentioned draft law. - DIRECT AND SINGLE READING TREATMENT AGREEMENT ON THE DRAFT LAW APPROVING THE METHODOLOGY FOR REPORTING THE COUPLE OF THE COUNTRY FOR THE 2017-2021 FIVE. [[File number 121/000011]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u177	We now vote on the single-reading direct processing agreement for the bill approving the methodology for marking the Basque Country quota for the five-year period 2017-2021. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 329 plus 3 telematics votes, 332; 291 plus 2 telematics votes, 293; 35 plus 1 telematics vote, 36; abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u178	Accordingly, the agreement on direct and read-only processing was approved by the plenary of the above-mentioned draft law. - DIRECT AND SINGLE READING TREATMENT AGREEMENT FOR THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENT OF LAW 42/2015, OF 5 OCTOBER, REFORM OF LAW 1/2000, OF 7 JANUARY, OF CIVIL JUDGMENT, TO GUARANTEE THE EFFECTIVENESS OF TAX MINISTER COMMUNICATION ACTS. [[File number 122/000129]]
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u179	We now vote on the agreement for the direct and single reading of the proposal for a law amending Law 42/2015 of 5 October on the reform of Law 1/2000 of 7 January on Civil Prosecution to ensure the effectiveness of the communication acts of the prosecutor's office. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 330 plus 3 telematics votes, 333; 245 plus 3 telematics votes, 248; abstentions, 85.
ParlaMint-ES_2017-11-21-CD171121.u180	Consequently, the agreement on direct and read-only processing by the plenary of the above-mentioned proposal for a law is approved. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and fifty minutes of the night.
